DRN-3724792
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mr S was looking to sell his car, through a well-known online automotive marketplace. He 
was approached by somebody who was interested in buying the car and exchanged a 
number of emails with them. But unknown to him at the time, he was dealing with a 
fraudster.
The fraudster sent Mr S what appeared to be genuine proof of payment for the car. But for 
the sale to be completed, Mr S needed to make a payment for delivery costs. Believing 
everything to be genuine, on 18 March 2022, Mr S went ahead and made an online card 
payment, for £2,200, from the account he held with Starling. Mr S sent the money to a 
money transfer account which he held in his name. Mr S has told us that the account was 
solely opened, for the purpose of sending the money to who he thought was a genuine 
buyer. From here the money was moved on, but unfortunately Mr S had unwittingly sent 
money to an account controlled by fraudsters.
Realising something was wrong Mr S contacted Starling. Starling looked into Mr Ss 
complaint and issued its final response on 29 April 2022. It explained that it had no valid 
chargeback rights, so it was unable to proceed with the dispute. It added that it found no 
evidence of fraudulent spending with the payment going into an account Mr S held in his 
name.
Unhappy with Starlings response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt think the payment Mr S made would have appeared as so unusual or 
uncharacteristic to Starling, so she didnt think Starling would have been alerted that Mr S 
may have been at risk.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im mindful that in his submissions to us, Mr S has referred to a voluntary code that was 
launched in May 2019. The Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), sets out 
when banks (so both sending banks and receiving banks) should reimburse a scam victim 
and it provides increased protection for customers who are the victim of scams. But the CRM 
Code doesnt apply to every type of disputed payment.
In this particular case, the CRM code doesnt apply. This is because Mr S made this 
payment by card, with these payments not falling under the provisions of the code. The CRM 
code also refers to Authorised Push Payments where the transfer of funds is transferred to 
another person. In this case, Mr S made the payment to an account in his own name, which 
he had control of, before transferring the money to the scammers. So for these reasons, I 
cant consider the provisions of the CRM code when reaching my decision.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr S, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him and I am sorry to hear that this has been 
a difficult time for him. But having thought very carefully about Starlings actions, I think it did 
act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payment to leave Mr Ss account. I also dont think it 
could have done any more than it did to try and recover the money. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Starling should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr S, when he made the transfer and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
 
In making the payment through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr S authorised the 
transaction. Because of this Starling had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are 
some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice 
Starling shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
Starling has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. On balance, I cant 
fairly say that the transaction here was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to have alerted 
Starling that Mr S was at risk of financial harm.
I say this as, having looked through Mr Ss bank statements for the months leading up to the 
scam, I can see that while the payment wasnt for an insignificant amount and was the 
largest payment he had made during the period I reviewed, there is another payment for 
£1,000 and several payments in the mid hundreds. And I dont think its unusual for a card to 
be used for one off or larger payments from time to time. I can also see that the payment 
didnt clear the entirety of the account balance, which can sometimes be an indicator of a 
scam.
On balance I cant say the payment was so remarkable that I could fairly and reasonably 
have expected Starling to have intervened. So I dont think Starling acted unreasonably in 
not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. There isnt enough here for me 
to think Starling should have suspected Mr S might be the victim of a potential scam.
Finally, Ive considered that Starling has said there were no chargeback rights. A chargeback 
is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Mastercard. It arbitrates 
on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able to resolve 
matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which 
are set by Mastercard  and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can be 
raised. 
Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid. From the evidence Ive 
seen the records show the payment Mr S made, from his Starling account, went to a genuine 
money remittance account, that he held in his name. Therefore I accept there would be no 
chargeback rights under the scheme.
Mr S has my considerable sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation where 
he has lost money to a fraudster. And I understand the whole experience has been deeply 
upsetting for him and I dont underestimate his strength of feeling and the impact this has 
had on him. But overall, for reasons explained, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask 
Starling to refund Mr S the money he has sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman