DRN-3612735
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mrs and Mr O held with TSB Bank 
Plc. Theyre unhappy with how long it took TSB to make a decision on whether to extend 
their interest-only mortgage. In the end, they re-mortgaged to another lender, at a cost of 
nearly £1,900 in fees. They think TSB should reimburse some or all of that cost, as well as 
paying fair compensation for the distress they experienced.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr O and TSB. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mrs and Mr O being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, rounding 
the figures involved, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint.
Mrs and Mr Os mortgage with TSB was in two parts; one was on capital repayment, the 
other interest-only. The interest-only part was due for repayment in November 2021, and 
Mrs and Mr O began the process of trying to extend it in May 2021. By October 2021, TSB 
hadnt yet made a decision; when Mrs and Mr O complained TSB admitted that it was partly 
responsible for the delay. 
In a final response dated 13 October 2021, it apologised for its shortcomings, paid £250 
compensation (this in addition to £35 paid earlier), and agreed to consider reimbursement of 
additional expenses (telephone, fuel, parking etc) if provided with further details. TSB also 
said that if the term extension still hadnt been confirmed by the current term ended, it 
wouldnt take any action.
Rather than take the risk, Mrs and Mr O proceeded with a re-mortgage to another lender, 
and the mortgage with TSB was repaid in full. When they referred their complaint here, our 
investigator thought TSBs response had been fair, but Mrs and Mr O have asked for the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They think TSB should pay more in compensation, 
plus reimburse some or all of their re-mortgage fee.
Our investigator thought TSBs response was fair, but Mrs and Mr O want the case referred 
to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This is a relatively straightforward case. Thats because its not a complaint where I have to 
decide fault. Its common ground that TSB took longer than it should to assess the request 
for a term extension. TSB has admitted as much, and paid Mrs and Mr O compensation for 
the impact it had on them. What that leaves for me to decide is whether the current 
settlement (£285 in total) is fair or whether TSB needs to do more. 
There are two main thrusts to Mrs and Mr Os claim; firstly, they think they should be 
re imbursed the cost of the re-mortgage (in full or in part) and secondly, they believe more 
compensation is due. Ill address them in that order.
I can understand why Mrs and Mr O might have wanted to consider other options; they were 
a month away from the mortgage expiry, and were quite reasonably concerned that TSB 
might, after all that delay, end up turning down the request for a term extension. They had a 
choice between two alternatives, neither of which were ideal; they could either await the 
decision from TSB or press ahead with the re-mortgage, albeit at a cost. 
Mrs and Mr O chose the latter, and in no way would I seek to criticise them for doing so. It 
was absolutely their prerogative, but it was also, ultimately, their choice, and they made it 
knowing theyd incur a fee to do so. Mrs and Mr O were understandably worried about the 
term expiring before TSB had made a decision. But Im satisfied TSB took that out of the 
equation in the final response. There was nothing equivocal or ambiguous about the 
reassurance it gave Mrs and Mr O; it said:
However, in the meantime I just want to reassure you if your term extension doesn't go 
through in time for next month, we wont be looking to take any action against you for your 
term expiring.
Lastly, on this point, in the event TSB had concluded its consideration of the request, and 
declined it, Mrs and Mr O would still then have incurred the cost of re-mortgaging. Theyd 
simply have started the process a little later than they did. And of course, if theyd allowed 
the application to run its course and the outcome had been favourable, Mrs and Mr O 
wouldnt have paid the broker fee at all.
Put all of the above together, and there isnt a case for me to require TSB to reimburse any 
part of the broker fee Mrs and Mr O paid to secure the new mortgage. That brings me to the 
question of compensation for the time, trouble and upset Mrs and Mr O have experienced.
This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, 
especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent in a mortgage 
transaction. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes 
that means stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, 
reasonable and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. 
Also, I cant award compensation for something that could have happened, but didnt. I make 
that observation to address Mrs and Mr Os point about what TSB might have done if the 
term extension had been turned down and they hadnt organised the re-mortgage. I can only 
take into account what did happen.Having done that, and having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, I think that the total of £285 already paid is fair compensation for the impact of 
what TSB actually got wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman