DRN-2163065
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acceptacard Limited trading as Payacardservices (Payacard) would not 
let him challenge two chargebacks.
What happened
Mr M was trading as an airport taxi service. He accepted two payments in January 2018 for 
a total of £750. These were charged back to his account, so he had lost the money. He was 
advised by Payacard that he could not dispute them as they were done using its Virtual 
terminal facility, which included telephone authorisations. There was a third transaction for 
£40 which was refunded to the payer and is not in dispute.
Mr M complained to Payacard that these were online transactions. They were not made by 
telephone. He should therefore have the right to challenge the chargebacks and be refunded 
the money by Payacard. He provided some evidence which he argued showed they were 
online transactions.
Payacard responded in December 2019. They said that the payments were done using its 
Virtual terminal service. This did not provide the same level of security as an online payment 
channel or chip & pin. They said that Mr M had accepted the Virtual terminal terms & 
conditions. These said that he was responsible for losses and chargebacks. This was 
because the transactions could not be verified as genuine ones. They said that Mr M had 
called them on 22 January 2018, when they gave him information about upgrading to more 
secure methods of receiving payments. But he then processed a payment for £400 using the 
Virtual terminal, which was charged back to Mr M. They said that the onus was on Mr M to 
prove the genuine cardholder authorised the payment. They said that Mr M was advised of 
the risks of chargebacks and did not uphold his complaint.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service in January 2020. Our investigator responded on 
26 August 2020. She said that Mr Ms invoice dated 30 January 2018 described the two 
transactions of £400 on 22 January 2018 and £350 on 24 January 2018 as telephone 
payments. She was satisfied that the payments were not online ones. She said that Mr M 
had discussed the benefits of upgrading to full online payments with Payacard on 22 
January 2018.
She agreed that Payacard had also provided some details of the transactions which 
described them as online and showed an IP address. But this did not mean that they were 
online payments. This was because the IP addresses related to Payacards Virtual terminal 
and the contact centre that processed the payment. She said that the description of online 
was confusing, but they were Virtual terminal transactions. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue here is  were the payments made using Payacards Virtual terminal or 
telephone service. Or were they full online payments? Where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I must base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not to have happened in all of the 
circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
The Virtual terminal/telephone service gave Mr M little protection against chargebacks. But 
online payments were much more secure. This meant that the chances of getting a 
chargeback were lower, and they could be disputed by Mr M. 
If they were made by Virtual terminal or telephone, then Payacards terms & conditions gave 
little protection against chargebacks. The Virtual terminal terms & conditions said:
 
CHARGEBACKS6. You acknowledge that transactions undertaken using the Virtual 
Terminal are not verified as undertaken by the genuine cardholder. Authorisation only 
confirms there are sufficient funds to meet the transaction and that the card has not been 
reported as lost or stolen. 7. You are responsible for your customer payment and liable in the 
event of losses and chargebacks that result from fraudulent use of a card through the Virtual 
Terminal. Payacards Best Practice guide on such payments said CHARGEBACKSIn the 
event of a chargeback where the cardholder disputes the transaction with their card issuer, 
remember, you are responsible and you must prove that the genuine cardholder undertook 
the transaction and that you have provided the services or goods to the cardholders 
satisfaction.
If they were fully online payments, then chargebacks can be prevented, or challenged. 
Payacards Best Practice guide said: 
CARDHOLDER AUTHENTICATIONWhere possible, use a payment method where the 
cardholder needs to enter a password or PIN. This gives you the ability to prove that the 
cardholder used their card at the time of transaction. It helps prevent chargebacks where 
cards are used fraudulently, or where the cardholder denies using the card. Authenticating 
payment methods include:
Payments made via our website
Website payment buttons, on your site
Email payment requests & Invoice links
Customer initiated mobile phone payments
Chip & PIN transactions
Payacard said the transactions were made using Virtual terminal/ telephone. This was the 
service that Mr M had signed up for  his account gave him access to Payacards Virtual 
terminal, Multi user terminal and the Telephone Payments Contact Centre. He had the 
option to upgrade to more secure processing channels which he didnt take up. They said 
that when the Virtual terminal was used by a customer, or the telephone contact centre, it 
recorded the IP address of the contact centre. So, the fact that an IP address is shown 
doesnt mean the transaction was done online. 
I have seen the Payacard transactions listing for the period January 2018 to June 2018. 
These showed the two transactions in question as Telephone. In contrast, there are others 
which were shown as online. So, the types of transactions were clearly shown as different.
The invoice sent to Mr M on 30 January 2018 said they were telephone payments.  The call 
from Mr M on 22 January 2018 was recorded by Payacard as asking about taking payments 
by phonediscussed potential for chargebackssold the benefits of upgrading (to full online payments)emailed him on protecting against fraud.
Payacard said that they gave Mr M the chance to defence the chargebacks, but Mr M wasnt 
able to trace his customer or provide evidence that the genuine cardholder had authorised 
the payment.
Mr M said the payments were online ones  he showed screenshots on his phone with a 
message from Payacards advisor describing them as online and showing IP addresses. 
He said this proves that the payments were made online. Payacard said this is not the case - 
the IP addresses relate to the call centre who processed the telephone payments. 
Ive seen call notes from Payacard - the call on 22 January 2018 also said advised to use 
our website (for online payments) if he has any misgivings/suspicions about any payments 
being made
Payacards guide to How to Accept Payments includes If you do not have your own website, 
customers can still pay you by card online. All you need to do is provide your unique Account 
ID and ask your customer to go to one of our websites to make the payment. Here they will 
see a button on the navigation bar entitled "Make A Payment". When your customer clicks 
this button, they are presented with 3 options; they can Just Pay, Register & Pay or if they 
have previously registered, log into their account to pay.
Mr M said that on the advice from Payacards advisor, he asked the payer to use the website 
link. Mr M provided a screenshot of his phone, which he said shows that he asked the payer 
to make payment using the Payacard website link. The next message said payment of £400 
received. The messages were timed at 16.30. This was the same time that the payment 
was recorded by Payacard on 24 January 2018, but the date on the screenshot isnt clear. I 
dont consider this to be conclusive evidence that the payment was made online via the 
website, only that the payer was asked to do so and that a payment of £400 was received by 
some means  which could have been by telephone.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about his complaint and I realise how frustrating this 
matter will have been for him. But there is conflicting evidence from Payacard and Mr M on 
which I must make a judgement. I have looked at this complaint and what both parties have 
said in depth. On balance, I conclude that its more likely than not here that the payments 
were made via the telephone/ Virtual terminal route, and therefore carry the risk that any 
chargebacks cannot be challenged by the receiver of the payments. In these circumstances, 
I think its fair that Payacard is holding Mr M liable for the loss here.
There is no more for Payacard to do.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman