DRN-1915501
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint arises from her central heating insurance policy with Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mrs M has held a policy with D & G since 2002. In late 2019, Mrs M found that her father had 
been charged a different premium (for most years) for the same cover. She says they both 
have boilers that are around the same age and so would expect to have been paying the 
same. 
D & G investigated a complaint on behalf of Mrs Ms father and, while it said his policy had 
been priced correctly, it provided him with a partial refund of premiums. When D & G told 
Mrs M the outcome of her fathers complaint, she said it should have also investigated her 
own policy.
D & G looked into Mrs Ms policy as well. It said there were various factors involved when 
pricing a policy and her policy had been correctly priced. It did, however, agree that one of 
its representatives had been rude and unhelpful to Mrs M on the phone when discussing the 
matter and it has offered £50 compensation for this. D & G also accepted that Mrs M was 
told a manager would call her back, which didnt happen and was also wrongly told that the 
call agreeing to this could not be found. D & G paid a further £20 (in two payments of £10 
each) into Mrs Ms account, even though she refused to accept these offers, as a gesture of 
goodwill, and apologised.  
Mrs M is very unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the way it was dealt with. She 
says, among other things, that she was given incorrect information and was told that the 
policies were different, when they were the same level of cover. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered that the premium had been calculated correctly and D & G had 
made a reasonable offer in response to her complaint.  
Mrs M does not accept the investigators assessment. She has made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised below:
A representative of D & G told her he was going to give more compensation once he 
investigated the complaint further and that the £50 initially offered was for the 
inconvenience experienced up to that point and not in relation to how the previous 
representative had behaved. 
The same representative also later said a manager would investigate and call her 
back, which didnt happen.
She was told in another call that she was not allowed to speak to a manager and that 
the previous call record offering this could not be found; and she was given more 
excuses and conflicting information.
There was another call, not addressed by the investigator, in which she was told she 
did have the right to speak to a manager.
She does not accept the explanation given about the pricing of the policies, as at 
some points her and her father were paying the same premium, which wouldnt 
happen if they are individually priced.  
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been referred to me. 
Mrs M has asked for me to contact her by phone to discuss the case. Deciding ombudsmen 
dont routinely talk to either party to the complaint, as fairness would usually require that both 
parties be involved in any discussion at the same time. We may do so if there is information 
that is unclear or a dispute about the facts of the case that we consider can only be clarified 
by discussing it with the parties. 
Mrs M has made her case clearly both in writing and verbally to the investigator. I have been 
provided with all the correspondence and communications and the call recordings between 
Mrs M and D & G. The evidence and positions of both parties is sufficiently clear and so I 
dont consider it is necessary to discuss this case with the parties in order to fairly determine 
the matter.
Mrs M has also raised a complaint about the service we have provided and this is being 
dealt with separately.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer presents. 
Similarly, individual consumers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they 
wish to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all  unless its a requirement, legal or 
otherwise. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy that applies to all consumers 
and then other factors, they consider relevant to the risk being covered, are applied, which 
might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers apply different factors but they 
might include an individuals claims history, the cost of repairs in the locality, and the age 
and make of the boiler, among other things.  
I cant set out in detail the way that D & G sets its premiums or the factors that it considers 
relevant and apply to its premiums, as these are commercially sensitive. I have, however, 
considered the information it has provided.  I cannot see that anything has been unfairly 
priced and it has applied its underwriting criteria consistently. 
Mrs M took the policy out in 2002 paying £129 for the year; the price of the policy increased 
from the third year onwards by between £2 and approximately £21 each year, until Mrs M 
was paying £302.88 for the year 2017 to 2018. I dont think these are unreasonable 
increases over time, especially as the boiler will have aged over that period. 
Mrs M says she had assumed that everyone would pay the same for the same cover but not 
everyone presents the same risk. Insurers are therefore allowed to set the premium taking 
account of anticipated risk presented to them. She also says that her and her father did pay 
the same premium at certain points and so does not accept the explanation provided. 
However, as there is a base rate normally, I do not find this unusual.Having considered everything, I have seen nothing to indicate any unfair pricing and so I do 
not intend to ask D & G to make any refund of premium.  
Mrs M has also complained about the service provided by D & G.
Mrs M says she was led to believe she would receive more compensation for the way she 
was spoken to in a call about this matter in November 2019. Mrs M says he was told lies by 
D & G representatives. 
We do not punish businesses for anything they may have done wrong; nor do we investigate 
exactly why things went wrong. Instead we can consider what happened and how this may 
have affected an individual complainant and, if things have gone wrong, decide what, if 
anything, needs to be done to put them right for the complainant. Sometimes an 
acknowledgment that things could have been handled better is enough. 
I have considered everything that Mrs M has said and the telephone calls between her and 
D & G. Even if I accept that Mrs M was told that more compensation for the way the first call 
in November 2019 was handled would be forthcoming, this does not bind D & G to paying 
more. Mrs M was also told a manager would call her, which didnt happen, and was 
subsequently told she could not speak to a manager. This was not correct and I can see this 
would have been frustrating. Mrs M was also told some things that were incorrect (that a 
record of a telephone conversation could not be found and that her and her fathers policies 
were the same). Again, I can see this would have been frustrating. 
Having considered everything, I consider the apology and compensation already paid to   
Mrs M is reasonable in respect of all these matters and is in line with any award we would 
make. I do not therefore consider that any further compensation is due. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman