DRN-3257645
The complaint
Mr K has complained that AWP P&C SA have turned down his claim under his 
motor warranty for the repairs to his car.
Any reference to AWP includes their claim administrator. 
What happened
The suspension on Mr Ks car collapsed and it was recovered to a local dealer. The dealer 
called him the following day to say the problem was a broken coil spring. After a couple of 
telephone calls the dealer told him the repair would not be covered under his warranty 
because there were signs of rust on the spring where the coating had worn off. Mr K 
complained to AWP about this. However, they said the decision was correct, although 
they incorrectly referred to the problem being with the wheel bearings. Mr K went back to 
AWP and queried why they had referred to wheel bearings. He said the problem with the 
coil spring was down to degradation and not rust. He also said AWP hadnt addressed his 
complaint about the fact he wasnt provided with a hire car whilst his car was in for repair.
Mr K didnt hear back from AWP, so he chased them about three weeks later. He still 
didnt hear, so he chased them again. And when he still didnt get a response, Mr K asked 
us to consider his complaint about AWP. When he complained to us Mr K also mentioned 
that he was unhappy with the service AWP had provided, as they had failed to respond to 
his follow-up emails.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint. She wrote to him to explain why 
she thought AWP were entitled to turn down his claim. She didnt address the issues of 
AWP failing to provide a hire car or the service theyd provided.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision, 
making a number of further points on why it was wrong of AWP to reject his claim. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 December 2021 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Mr K has a warranty with comprehensive component cover. This covers all mechanical 
components factory fitted to the insured vehicle if they suffer electrical or mechanical 
failure. And mechanical failure is defined as the sudden and unexpected failure of a 
component, which needs immediate repair or replacement. AWP havent suggested the 
coil spring isnt a component or that it didnt suffer mechanical failure. But  for the sake of 
completeness  I should say that I think a coil spring is a mechanical component. This is 
because it is a flexible and moving part that is integral to the operation of the vehicle. And 
I think it suffered mechanical failure, as it snapped suddenly.
Mr Ks warranty excludes corrosion. I appreciate Mr Ks point about the policy wording 
and that corrosion is included in a list of things that dont really seem to bear any 
relation to it. But the warranty doesnt cover bodywork. And  whilst Mr K does have 
comprehensive cover, including cover for wear and tear, no insurance policy covers 
absolutely everything. So, I think it is reasonable for AWP to specifically exclude some 
things it doesnt want to cover in the way it has done so.
But, I have looked at the photograph of the coil spring and I agree with Mr K that the main 
cause of the problem with it was not corrosion. Mr Ks car was around nine years old at the 
time the coil spring broke. The vast majority of coil springs last a lot longer than nine years 
and there is nothing to suggest that there is a problem with the other coil springs on Mr Ks 
car. I think this shows it is most likely there was some sort of fault with the coil spring that 
caused it to break. Either the coating failed and this led to unexpected corrosion or there 
was a weakness in it and it rusted and failed when, under normal circumstances, it 
wouldnt have done.
In view of this, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to allow AWP to rely on 
the exclusion for corrosion. I think the idea of excluding corrosion is so AWP dont pay 
claims when normal corrosion causes a part to fail at the end of what might be best 
described as its normal life. So, I think AWP should meet Mr Ks claim by paying what it 
cost him to have his car repaired, less the policy excess.
I also agree with Mr K that AWPs handling of his claim and the queries he raised after they 
said they would not reverse their decision was poor. They failed to respond to two emails 
making points that needed to be addressed, having turned a claim down they should  in my 
opinion have accepted. This clearly caused Mr K unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
And I think AWP should pay him £100 in compensation to reflect this.
From what Mr K has said, it does seem he has the benefit of roadside assistance under 
his warranty. Ive not seen the confirmation of cover document showing this, but it does 
seem Mr K received roadside assistance from AWP, so I have taken this to mean he does 
have this additional cover. The policy wording states that if  following assistance  the 
insured vehicle cant be repaired within four hours, AWP will organise and pay for a 
replacement vehicle for up to two days. It seems Mr Ks car couldnt be repaired within 
four hours. So I am not sure why AWP didnt arrange a hire car for him. As a result of this, 
Mr K had to make do without a car for two days and pay for a taxi to go and collect his 
car. I think the fair and reasonable way to address this issue is for AWP to pay Mr K a 
further £60. This is to cover his taxi costs and the inconvenience of being without a car for 
two days.
I also think AWP should pay Mr K interest at our normal rate of 8% per annum simple 
on what it pays for the repair to his car from the date he paid it. This is because he has 
been without this money as a result of AWP refusing his claim.
In summary, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for AWP to pay what it cost Mr K to 
have his car repaired, less the policy excess. It should also pay him £160 in compensation 
for the reasons mentioned above.
I gave both parties until 14 January to provide further comments and evidence. Mr K has 
come back to say he agrees with what Ive provisionally decided. AWP havent responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr K agrees with what I provisionally decided. And because AWP havent responded, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion on the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ks 
complaint.   Putting things right
Therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ks complaint is for AWP to pay 
what it cost Mr K to have his car repaired, less the policy excess, plus interest. They should 
also pay him £160 in compensation for the reasons mentioned in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, as included above, my final decsion is 
that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. AWP P&C SA must pay him what it cost him to have his 
car repaired, less the applicable excess. AWP must also add interest to this amount at 
8% per annum simple from the date Mr K paid for the repairs to the date they pay him this 
amount. 1 AWP must also pay Mr K a further £160 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 AWP P&C SA must tell Mr K if they have made a deduction for income tax. And, if they 
have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction certificate for 
Mr K if asked to do so. This will allow Mr K to reclaim the tax from Her Majestys 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.