DRN-4383729
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd (trading as DFH Financial 
Solutions) didnt administer his debt management plan properly.
What happened
Mr O had a debt management plan with DFH, which ran from summer 2020 until summer 
2022. He complains that he paid the stated sum, but his creditors are still chasing him, 
saying he still owes them substantial balances. He suspects that DFH did not pass on all the 
money it was supposed to.
DFH did not give a final response to Mr Os complaint, nor respond to our service. We asked 
Mr O for statements from his creditors to show what was or was not paid, but he did not 
provide this.
Our investigator looked into things independently and told DFH to carry out a full audit of the 
plan and its payments. DFH didnt reply, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr O and DFH a provisional decision on 18 September 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In the copy of the debt management plan agreement Ive seen, DFH set out that Mr O would 
pay a total of £11,199 over two years, to pay off his debts and the fees. Mr O has evidenced 
that he paid £11,205.60 over two years. So it would appear that he paid what was needed 
under the agreement.
From the limited information I have, I can see that Mr Os debt balances have reduced, so it 
seems that DFH did pass on at least some of the money. But Mr O has provided letters from 
creditors setting out that substantial arrears remain. And he was chased during the debt 
management plan as well as after he finished paying it, which indicates this wasnt simply a 
matter of DFH underestimating what he needed to pay in total. Further, while it is possible 
that the odd creditor will refuse to engage constructively with a debt management plan or 
have a miscommunication or administrative error, Mr Os been chased by a number of his 
creditors. So it tends to indicate something went wrong with the plan. 
DFH has not provided any evidence to show that it advised Mr O appropriately, or that it 
properly engaged and negotiated with his creditors, or that it distributed the funds correctly. 
And its very concerning that it has not engaged with our service. Based on the evidence 
I have so far, and the balance of probabilities, I cannot be reasonably satisfied that DFH did 
what it was supposed to. I find its more likely than not that it did not administer Mr Os debt 
management plan appropriately.
In terms of putting things right, it would be unfair for DFH to keep the fees it took if it did not 
provide the full service paid for to the quality required. So I currently think those fees should 
be refunded to Mr O. DFH should also pay him simple interest on those fees, at the rate of 
8% simple a year, to compensate Mr O for the time he was without that money. This is the 
same rate the courts use in situations like this. 
As DFH has not provided its records and Mr O has not provided statements from his 
creditors, I cant say for certain what amounts DFH did or did not pass on, or what exact 
financial losses Mr O may have incurred. But I plan to direct DFH to refund any amounts it 
was supposed to pass on, but didnt. Again, it should add simple interest to compensate 
Mr O for the time it held onto his money improperly.
Lastly, when a business gets things wrong, we often tell it to pay compensation, to recognise 
its errors and the non-financial impact of them. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in 
mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, and not to issue fines or to punish 
businesses  its the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who will decide how best to regulate 
DFH. In this complaint, I understand that DFH caused Mr O considerable stress, anxiety, 
and inconvenience, and he will have to put in a lot of extra effort to sort things out with his 
creditors. So taking into account the likely impact DFH had on him, alongside our guidelines 
for compensation, I think £600 compensation would be fair to put things right here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
2 October 2023. DFH hasnt replied to the provisional decision. Mr O asked some 
questions to clarify the decision and the next steps, which our investigator answered. 
Otherwise, he didnt make any new submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments before the deadline. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd to:
Refund the fees it took from Mr O;
Refund any amounts which it was supposed to pass onto Mr Os creditors but did 
not;
Pay simple interest to Mr O on the above, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable 
from the date each fee was charged and the date of each payment it missed until the 
date theyre refunded; and-
Pay Mr O £600 compensation for the trouble and upset it most likely caused.
 If DFH considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from 
that simple interest, it should tell Mr O how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr O a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr O may be able to reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if he doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd to put things right in 
the way I set out above.
If Mr O accepts this final decision, Bridgewater Support Solutions Ltd must carry out the 
redress within 28 days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman