DRN-3487065
The complaint
Mr M complains that AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) failed to invest his money in a 
stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
Mr M opened an account with AJ Bell in March 2018 and deposited £20,000. He believed his 
money would be invested in a stocks and shares ISA but upon looking to switch ISA 
providers in March 2021, he found out that his money hadnt been invested and was in a 
holding account instead. 
Mr M raised a complaint with AJ Bell as he felt he had been financially disadvantaged in the 
region of £4,000 and requested that he be compensated this amount. AJ Bell considered his 
complaint but didnt uphold it. AJ Bell explained that:
Its terms and conditions make it clear that it provides an execution only service with 
no advice given  so its the responsibility of the consumer to make investment 
decisions.
It had no record of Mr M placing any trades on his account nor any quotes being 
requested since the account had been opened. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. He said AJ Bell ought to have contacted him to let him know that his money was 
sitting in a holding account and that it was waiting for his instructions as to where to invest 
his money.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think that AJ Bell had 
acted unfairly. In summary, he said:
He was satisfied AJ Bell did all it needed to make it clear from the start that it was 
providing an execution only service and that Mr M would need to choose his own 
investments. 
AJ Bell had sent Mr M secure messages on his account and the terms and conditions 
of his account made it clear AJ Bell would communicate with him in this way. These 
secure messages included quarterly statements showing he had a cash balance of 
£20,000.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said AJ bell ought to have provided a 
receipt to confirm what he had purchased but he received nothing and received no log in 
details to check his secure messages.
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AJ Bell has provided this service with screenshots to show what information Mr M wouldve 
been presented with when he opened his account. Having considered these, its clear that 
AJ Bell provided an execution only service and that Mr M needed to make his own 
investment decisions. Mr M was provided with the following information:
Stocks and shares ISAs are suitable for investors comfortable making their own 
investment decisions. If youre not sure you are, please contact a financial adviser.
[]
We do not offer advice about the suitability of our products or any investments held 
within them.
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ms ISA application summary which included the ISA declaration 
which Mr M had to agree to before opening the account. As a part of this, Mr M confirmed 
that hed understood the ISA key features and agreed to the terms and conditions for the 
account. The ISA key features made it clear that Mr M had to select and manage the ISA 
portfolio himself and listed the types of investments Mr M could choose to invest in as paret 
of his ISA:
Our stocks and shares ISA lets you choose from a wide range of investments  
including shares, investments trusts, unit trusts, gilts, corporate bonds and OEICs. 
You select and manage the ISAs portfolio yourself.
The terms and conditions further explained that Mr M needed to select what products he 
wanted to invest in:
1.1 Our services enable You to select Products and open Accounts in order to invest 
on an execution only basis. We do not provide financial, investment or tax advice as 
part of the Services.
[..]
You are responsible for selecting the Product and any investments.
AJ Bell says Mr M was provided with a welcome email in March 2018 which explained the 
following:
To get started with your new account(s), simply log in to our website using the 
username and password you created during your application. Once youve logged in 
youll be able to view your portfolio, pay cash into your account and start dealing. You 
can also use our range of shares and funds research to find out more before you 
start investing.
I understand Mr M says he didnt receive any log in details, but this email confirms that he 
created the username and password when opening the account. Im also aware that Mr M 
has said he also didnt receive this welcome email and having been sent a copy of the email 
document provided by AJ Bell, Mr M has questioned why its in the form of a Word document 
rather than email form including a date it was sent. Whilst AJ Bell hasnt been able to provide 
any internal screenshots to show it was sent, it has provided a reasonable explanation for 
this. AJ Bell says it sends all its welcome emails via an automated process in which the 
email automatically saves to customers files as a Word document. So on balance Im satisfied he was sent the email and therefore he was provided with sufficient information 
regarding his account that he ought to have been aware that any money he deposited into 
his account wouldnt be invested unless he selected which investments he wanted to be 
invested into. 
Im also aware that Mr M was sent quarterly statements for his ISA which showed he had 
£20,000 held in cash in his account. These were sent by secure message which AJ Bell 
confirmed would be the method of contact in the ISA terms and conditions:
6.24 We are required to provide You with certain information about the investments 
held in Your Account on a quarterly basis and with certain details of the costs and 
charges associated with those investments on an annual basis. For the purposes of 
providing you with that information, We will upload quarterly and annual statements 
into the documents section on the secure area of the Website and notify You by 
Secure Message when We have done so.
Again, Mr M says he didnt receive these statements, however, the terms and conditions 
made it clear that he was responsible for accessing his secure messages:
4.4 You are responsible for monitoring Your Account, ensuring that You read Your 
Secure Messages and informing Us if there is something wrong on Your Account or it 
has been subject to unauthorized use.
AJ Bell has provided a screenshot which shows that Mr M had logged into his account in 
March 2019 and so its reasonable to expect that he ought to have noticed that his ISA 
balance remained in cash. AJ Bell has also provided a screenshot of Mr Ms account which 
shows what he would have seen when logging into his account. This clearly shows that his 
money was held in cash and that no investment choices had been selected. 
So whilst I appreciate Mr Ms frustration in finding out his money hadnt been invested for a 
long period of time since initially depositing it into his ISA, ultimately it was his responsibility 
to understand how the account operated and to make his own investment decisions. AJ Bell 
made it clear that it provided an execution only service and I wouldnt have expected it to 
have invested Mr Ms money into individual investments without acting upon an instruction 
from him to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against AJ Bell Management 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman