DRN-2159748
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the actions of St Andrews Insurance Plc when dealing with her 
home insurance claim. She feels she has been discriminated against because of her race.
References to St Andrews include its agents. 
What happened
While dealing with Mrs Ps home insurance claim relating to her shower, St Andrews sent a 
claims consultant and a contractor to her home to view the damage. 
During the visit, the consultant asked Mrs P if he could show the contractor an ornate ceiling 
in another room. St Andrews had settled a claim for the repair of this around four years 
before. St Andrews had provided Mrs P with a cash settlement and she had arranged the 
repair herself.  
Mrs P agreed for them to have a look at the ceiling. But after the visit, she made a complaint 
to St Andrews. She said she didnt think the consultant had a right to question her previous 
claim. She felt like she was being interrogated in her own home. It made her feel very 
uncomfortable and like he was judging her. She didnt want the consultant to deal with her 
claim anymore.
St Andrews said it had contacted the contractor who was at the visit and hed confirmed the 
consultant was polite, professional and helpful throughout. During the visit the consultant 
had remembered visiting Mrs Ps property previously in connection with a claim for her 
ceiling. As the ceiling was ornate, the claims consultant wanted to see if this would be 
something St Andrews contractors could help with in the future. The contractor had 
confirmed Mrs P was happy for them to look at the ceiling. 
St Andrews said her other claim had been settled and closed. It wouldnt be in a position to 
remove the consultant from it as the claim had moved forward as a result of his involvement.
Mrs P remained unhappy, so she brought her claim to our service. She said shed felt 
intimidated and victimised when asked to show her ceiling. She didnt feel this was relevant 
to her case. She believed she might have been discriminated against because of her race.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think St Andrews had intended to make her feel uncomfortable or had 
acted inappropriately.
 
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says St Andrews had no reason to look at her ceiling and it was inappropriate that it 
had asked to do so. She felt intimidated and uncomfortable and believes she may have been 
discriminated against because of her race.
The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less favourably because of their 
race. We dont have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been breached. That is 
a matter for the courts. However, Ive taken this act into account when deciding whether St 
Andrews has acted fairly and reasonably  given that its relevant law.
Ive no way of knowing exactly what was said or how it was said during the visit. Ive had to 
rely on what both parties have said to establish what was more likely to have happened.
Mrs P doesnt dispute that she agreed for St Andrews to look at her ceiling. But she says 
she didnt say no because she felt she was being put on the spot and was intimidated. She 
thought St Andrews was trying to check to see if shed had the work completed. 
St Andrews says the consultant asked Mrs P if he and the contractor could look at the 
ceiling because it was ornate, and he wanted to see if this was something they could help 
with in the future. It says when Mrs P made her claim, St Andrews preferred contractors 
were unable to assist with repairs to such an ornate ceiling.
Mrs P says her claim for the ceiling was settled by cash because she suffers from anxiety 
and she felt more comfortable having the work done by a company she was familiar with. 
While this might have been the case, I think St Andrews has given a reasonable and 
plausible explanation for why the consultant asked if they could look at the work. And I dont 
think Mrs Ps race played a part in the request that was made. The consultant says he 
remembered visiting Mrs Ps property in 2016, while he was there. He wanted to see the job 
that had been done because it was so ornate.
I understand Mrs P felt uncomfortable at being asked to show her ceiling. But both the 
consultant and contractor say she seemed happy to do so. The contractor says the 
consultant was friendly and there was no aggression or nastiness from either party.
I dont doubt Mrs Ps account of how she felt at the time. But she doesnt appear to have 
expressed this to St Andrews. So, I also dont think it was unreasonable for the consultant 
and contractor to go ahead and view the ceiling, once shed given her agreement to do so.
  
I appreciate Mrs P found this situation distressing. But, on balance, I dont think St Andrews 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman