DRN-2040714
The complaint
Miss M and Mr P complain that they were mis-sold a whole of life policy by a predecessor 
business of Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). They say that it included critical 
illness cover that they didnt need. 
What happened
Miss M and Mr P took out a reviewable whole of life policy at the same time as a mortgage, 
in July 1997. The initial sum assured was just under £50,000 and the premium was just 
under £20 per month. 
In October 2006, they elected to take advantage of the increased cover option. So, from 
March 2007, the cover increased to £73,675. The policy was reviewed in 2012 and 2017. On 
both occasions, a higher premium was required to maintain the sum assured.  Miss M and 
Mr P chose to increase premiums both times. 
In 2020, they complained to Aviva that they'd been mis-sold the policy because they didnt 
feel it met the need they had at the time they took it out, of providing financial protection for 
their family. Aviva looked into the matter and concluded that there was no evidence that the 
policy was mis-sold. They acknowledged that whilst a more common recommendation 
alongside a mortgage would be a fixed term policy, the premium here had been calculated 
so to maintain the sum assured for the 25-year term of the mortgage. At which point Miss M 
and Mr P, could decide whether to continue with the cover. They also stated that this was a 
more cost-effective way of providing them with critical illness cover at that point in time. 
Miss M and Mr P didnt accept that the policy was a suitable recommendation for them at the 
time. Specifically, they said they didnt need critical illness cover as they had cover in place 
through their employment and also had standalone health insurance. They also didnt feel 
that the reviewable nature of the policy had been explained sufficiently. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt agree that the policy had 
been mis-sold. She felt that it had been a suitable recommendation for their needs at the 
time and said that it had been administered correctly. 
Miss M and Mr P didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that they didnt 
need the policy that was sold to them. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss M and Mr P that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. My role is to 
decide if Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in recommending the policy. 
And I dont believe it has done so. 
I have considered the suitability of the advice to recommend a whole of life policy alongside 
a mortgage. In this circumstance where the liability has a fixed term, I would usually expect 
the cover sold to protect it to also have the same term. As opposed to this policy, where the 
cover lasts as long as the premiums are paid. I asked Aviva to justify this and they have 
explained this policy was actually cheaper than a policy that had a term that matched the 
mortgage and decreased as the mortgage would be paid off over the term. And the 
premiums for this policy were designed to remain the same for 25 years  the term of the 
borrowing. 
The premium for this policy was just under £20 and a decreasing term assurance policy with 
critical illness cover, would have been about £22. Whilst a higher premium was later 
required, this was only after Miss M and Mr P had elected to increase the cover. 
I cannot be sure how the policy would have performed if the original sum assured had been 
maintained. It passed its first review in 2002 and may have passed more, we will never 
know. Whilst a whole of life policy will always need increasing at one point, this policy may 
have given the level of protection needed, for the right amount of time. 
Therefore, I cannot say that the consumers have lost out financially by being recommended 
this policy. So, given that whilst on first sight it seemed this whole of life policy was 
unsuitable, I am satisfied that it was reasonable to recommend this with built in critical illness 
cover instead. 
The policy has failed recent reviews and an increased premium has been required to 
maintain the level of cover. Miss M and Mr P have said that they werent made aware that 
this might happen. However, I have been provided with the policy documentation that will 
have been given at the time the policy was sold. The policy terms explain that it is a 
reviewable policy and what this means. The policy schedule states that the first review will 
be in 2002. The advisors letter of recommendation also sates under the heading 
Important Information that the policy will be reviewed to check that your chosen level of 
cover can be maintained. Your cover is guaranteed between these reviews but if, at a 
review, it is found that your premium is insufficient to maintain your cover, it may be 
recommended that your increase your premium. 
Further to this, the policy failed a review in 2012 and Miss M and Mr P elected to increase 
the monthly premium so to maintain the level of cover. Due to this and the policy 
documentation from the time of sale quite clearly explaining the reviewable nature, I cant 
say Miss M and Mr P were not aware of this.   
Miss M and Mr P have also said that they did not need the critical illness cover specifically, 
that this policy provided. This is because they had cover through their employer if they 
became unwell. Whilst this might be the case, although I dont have any details of what this 
other cover was, the fact-find and summary from the point of sale doesnt make any mention 
of this and actually states that Miss M and Mr P have no life cover or critical illness cover. 
Even if they did, and the advisor was made aware that they did, I wouldnt find it wrong to 
recommend new cover to protect a new liability. Which the mortgage they were taking out 
was. 
Overall, I think this policy was largely suitable for Miss Mand Mr P given their specific 
circumstances and taking account of the way the policy was set up and the changes made to 
it. So, I cant agree that Miss M and Mr P have lost out financially by not being 
recommended a different policy. I also believe that the reviewable nature of it was explained sufficiently. I know Miss M and Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision 
brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss M and Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman