DRN-2825428
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Metro Bank PLC dealt with his request to close a joint current 
account. 
What happened
Mr S held a joint current account with Metro. In September 2020 he attended branch with a 
court order and asked for the account to be closed. Mr S complains Metro didnt close the 
account as he asked, treated him poorly and kept his debit card. 
Metro responded to say it was sorry Mr S felt let down, but it was of the view it had followed 
its processes correctly, including retaining his card. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied as he thought Metro should have closed the account in line with 
the court order and should have done more by way of reasonable adjustments because of 
his disability. He asked our service for an independent review.
The investigator noted Mr S and the branch staffs version of events differed and was 
sympathetic to Mr S difficult circumstances. But overall, he wasnt persuaded Metro had 
treated Mr S unfairly. Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has complained - in part - that Metro failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. In 
other words, has failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the 
Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint - given that its relevant law - but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr S wants a decision that Metro has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, then he'll need to go Court.
Mr S attended a Metro branch with a court order. My understanding is it said Mr S and the 
joint account holder had agreed for three accounts to be closed  one at Metro and two held 
elsewhere. Mr S says the two accounts held elsewhere were closed straightaway and 
complains Metro should have done the same. I can see where hes coming from. But 
different banks deal with things in different ways. Metro has explained these sorts of 
requests are dealt with by its back-office staff. I think thats reasonable as court orders can 
be complex. Ultimately the branch staff agreed to contact the joint account holder for their 
permission to close the account. It was closed a few days later. Metro might not have dealt 
with the matter in the way Mr S would have liked, but he got what he wanted fairly quickly. 
Mr S says the staff member dealing with his query was inexperienced and referred to other 
staff members regularly, which meant he was in the branch for an unreasonable amount of 
time, and which due to his disability caused him discomfort and distress. Its clear Mr S didnt 
think his visit would take as long as it did. But because Metro was unable to action his 
request straightaway, and given the request related to an account in dispute, I think it was 
always going to be more than a quick visit. Im not persuaded delays while a staff member 
sought support to ensure the correct advice was being given amounts to an unfairness. 
Metro apologised to Mr S for any inconvenience he was caused. It doesnt need to do 
anything more.
Metro retained Mr S debit card. I understand why he thought this was unnecessary given 
the account at that time remained open. But the account was in dispute meaning it couldnt 
be used, action was being taken to close it, and there was no money in it. So Mr S wasnt 
impacted by his debit card being retained.
As mentioned above, the branch staff agreed to contact the joint account holder. Mr S says 
he was told hed be updated on their progress but wasnt. In my view Metro should have 
updated Mr S when the joint account holder attended branch which allowed the account to 
be closed. Metro acknowledged the error, apologised and said feedback would be given to 
the staff member involved. Thats fair.
Overall, Metro could have handled things better at times. But the service wasnt poor to the 
extent that Im persuaded to require it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I dont require Metro Bank PLC to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman