DRN-3685809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS), failed to undertake sufficient 
due diligence and mismanaged the investment.
What happened
In March 2015 Mr T received advice from an independent financial adviser (IFA) to invest 
£255,000 into an Octopus EIS. After reflection, Mr T decided to invest £200,000 and funds 
were invested into OEIS 18 in March 2015. In August 2018 Mr T assigned half of his 
investment to Mrs T.
Following a substantial capital gains tax liability, Mr T says he took out the investment as he 
was looking for a tax efficient product. Whilst he recognised there may be some losses, he 
relied upon the objective of capital preservation and felt there had been management 
failures. It is common ground that the investment performed poorly; Mr T estimates that 
around 80% of the capital investment has been lost. Mr T maintains that Octopus misled him 
and they likely failed to carry out sufficient due diligence. Mr T also later noted that a number 
of directors in the underlying investee companies were linked to Octopus. Mr and Mrs T also 
raised concern that other investors had been treated more favourably when Octopus made 
some goodwill payments.
Octopus say that the EIS was a discretionary managed investment service and funds were 
invested in line with mandate, namely into energy companies. Appropriate due diligence was 
undertaken in a multi-stage process, where external third-party advisers also provided input. 
The EIS was inherently high risk and as the product was recommended, it was for the IFA to 
have highlighted the risks and considered them when making a suitable recommendation. 
Octopus say that clear, fair and not misleading information was provided about the EIS and 
the risks were set out in the Information Memorandum (IM). Whilst capital preservation was 
targeted this was not a guarantee and a series of risks materialising led to poor 
performance. Octopus acknowledge that goodwill payments were made to some investors in 
the worst affected tranches, but the payments were discretionary.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He considered the 
information provided by Octopus and thought they had provided clear risk warnings in the 
IM, in which they explained that the investment was high risk and set out a number of risk 
factors that could affect performance such as the impact of any changes to legislation or 
market prices set by the National Grid. On balance, our investigator thought that Octopus 
investment into the underlying companies was in with the objectives set in the brochure and 
Octopus had been entitled to make legitimate investment decisions given that it had 
discretionary rights to manage the EIS. As to goodwill payments, these were discretionary 
and there was nothing to show that Mr and Mrs T were misled about this.
Mr and Mrs T disagree with the outcome. They say they were aware that they might not get 
back everything that was invested but had not been prepared to lose nearly all of the capital 
sum. The underlying companies were not diverse and Mr T had been unable to make 
withdrawals, he suspected that Octopus deliberately delayed the issue of share certificates.
Our investigator remained of the view that clear risk warnings were given and explained that  
that the certificates were EIS 3 certificates used to prove eligibility for tax relief and it was 
down to the underlying the investee companies and HMRC to issue these. As to 
withdrawals, EIS were illiquid and this was sufficiently highlighted in the IM. Withdrawals 
could only be made under certain conditions and Mr and Mrs T did later withdraw £10,000.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that each party has had fair opportunity to provide the information upon which 
they seek to rely. I have made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words, by 
weighing up what is more likely than not to have happened.
I think its helpful at the outset to explain our role. Our service has no regulatory or 
disciplinary powers, which means we cant tell a business how to operate and cannot impose 
any fine or penalty. We provide an independent, informal dispute resolution service, where 
each case is considered on its own facts.  
As Mr T received advice from an IFA, I will not be considering whether the recommendation 
to invest in the EIS was suitable; responsibility for any such advice (which includes 
recommendations around risk exposure) lies with the IFA not Octopus. Octopus were 
responsible for providing information to Mr T so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether to invest in the EIS and it was for Octopus to invest in line with the mandate. 
It is clear that Mr and Mrs T are extremely disappointed with the performance of the EIS and 
I understand that they feel very strongly about this complaint. I would like to reassure them 
that I have read all the information provided. Ive focused this decision on what I consider to 
be the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended if I 
do not refer to every point raised. The crux of this complaint is whether Octopus provided 
clear, fair and not misleading information about the EIS and whether the funds were invested 
in line with the mandate. The focus of this decision is at the time the information was 
presented and at the time the funds were invested. It is not fair and reasonable to make an 
assessment with the benefit of hindsight. 
Investment objective
It is common ground that the objective for this EIS was to target capital preservation through 
investment in the energy sector and to provide multiple tax reliefs, in other words at the end 
of the period of investment, Octopus goal was to have provided investors with the benefit of 
tax relief (including 30% income tax relief and capital gains tax deferral) and to return the 
capital sum invested. Mr and Mrs T make no complaint about the tax benefits and it appears 
that the objective of tax efficiency was met.
It is important to highlight that there is a distinction between an investment objective or 
strategy and the inherent risks with a particular investment. So, for example, an investment 
might target growth but be lower risk. The issue for me to determine is whether clear, fair 
and misleading information was provided about the product. I have considered the 
information provided by Octopus in the IM and Details of underlying investments document. 
I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr T read the IM before investing, given that 
in the EIS application form he confirmed he had read and understood the IM of January 
2015 and the risks factors explained within it.Risks
EISs are complex, illiquid, specialised and speculative investments, where there is a real risk 
of losing the original, capital investment. At the beginning of the IM, Octopus highlighted that 
it was very important for the investor to read and understand the risks with the EIS and at the 
beginning of the risk section, stated that this EIS was a high-risk investment where capital 
remained at risk. 
In the introduction Welcome to Octopus page, the distinction between investment objective 
and risk was set out:
. . .we want to make sure youre aware of the risks involved with investing in smaller 
companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be viewed as a high-risk investment  even 
though we target capital preservation, your capital is placed at risk. 
In the risk section, Octopus explained that capital was at risk and investment return was not 
guaranteed. So, whilst Octopus explained that the aim was to invest so as to maintain the 
capital sum, Im satisfied that they made it clear this outcome was not guaranteed. 
Octopus directed investors to the risk warning section page numbers that were clearly 
highlighted in the IM. When considering the information objectively, Im persuaded that the 
risks were clearly set out and that Mr T knew or ought to have known from the outset that the 
risks with this investment was higher to achieve the objectives of capital preservation and tax 
relief.
In IM the risk section again highlighted the high-risk profile of the product, that there was no 
guarantee the objective would be met and past performance was not a reliable guide to 
future performance, further that the investment was illiquid with the earliest exit point would 
likely be at least four years. 
Risks specific to the energy sector were also set out. Octopus highlighted that revenue 
streams were dependent on the legislation on which they were built and with reserve power 
the revenue stream depended upon the market prices set by the National Grid for supplying 
energy during peak periods and for the plant to meet its commitment to meet agreed 
amounts of energy over the period of the contract. Any changes to legislation or generating 
performance may affect the returns. Octopus also highlighted that there could be increased 
risk due to the limited diversification within the EIS, as investment would likely be in one or a 
small number of companies within one sector only. The risk section further highlighted 
conflicts of interest, amongst other things, that the companies Octopus EIS invested in may 
also receive funding from other sources managed by Octopus Investments, that the partner 
company may hold shareholding in partner companies, there may be joint ventures and 
remuneration and performance fees might be paid from companies in which Octopus EIS 
invests.
In my view Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the risks 
addressing the fact that the overall risk profile was high, there was a risk that legislation 
could change or that energy prices could fluctuate and that risk was increased by the limited 
diversification within the EIS. It was for Mr Ts IFA to assess whether this level of risk 
exposure was suitable for Mr Cs needs. To be clear, the fact that a combination of the 
highlighted risks materialised was extremely unfortunate, but it does not follow that the 
information provided about risks was misleading.
Investing in line with the mandateMr T says he placed great reliance on the concept of capital preservation and hadnt 
appreciated he could sustain significant losses. First, its important to qualify that capital 
preservation was held out as a target and not a guarantee. Further, it does not follow that the 
target of capital preservation lowered the risk of this particular investment, as Ive set out 
above, Octopus expressly dealt with this within the IM.
Its fair to say that Octopus spoke about relatively predictable revenue and gave information 
about the anticipated revenue streams for the sectors they intended to invest in but that had 
to be balanced against the clear risk warnings set out above. Ive also seen Octopus sought 
industry expert advice about likely returns from the resources and considered these 
forecasts before sharing information with potential investors. Theres nothing to show that it 
was unreasonable to rely on this information at the time it was presented to Octopus. I dont 
consider that it was misleading as at January 2015 to refer to relatively predictable revenue 
streams at that time. Octopus had warned that returns could change if legislation changed or 
generating performance changed. 
Octopus have been clear that the price and legislation changes took place after information 
was provided to Mr T and after the point of investment into the underlying companies. 
On balance, I consider that Octopus undertook appropriate due diligence obtaining, amongst 
other things, third party technical expert, energy expert and legal expert reports which were 
then considered through a multi-stage process culminating in consideration by an investment 
committee.  On balance, I am also persuaded that Octopus did undertake ongoing analysis 
of the energy sector changes and theyve explained that third party expert were again 
engaged. As Octopus was the discretionary manager it was for them to make legitimate 
commercial decisions on behalf of investors on the basis of the information available at the 
time and Im mindful that it isnt fair and reasonable to consider this matter with the benefit of 
hindsight. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not that the objective of capital preservation was being 
pursued by Octopus and the funds continued to be invested in the energy sector areas set 
out in the IM. Its common ground that at the point of investment, the investee companies 
were within the energy sector, a sector highlighted as the proposed industry for investment. 
The Details of underlying investments brochure for the OEIS-18 explained that investment 
would continue in energy with a focus on companies providing renewable energy and 
reserve power to the National Grid. And its relevant that Octopus had highlighted the risk of 
lack of diversification within the EIS given that investment fell within one industry sector. 
Again, the suitability of this risk factor was a matter for the IFA to consider when making the 
recommendation to invest and the amount to invest in this EIS.
Its also relevant that maintaining the investment meant the requirements for EIS 
qualification and related tax reliefs remained available. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Octopus failed to invest in companies in line with the 
above mandates, EIS qualification providing tax reliefs and capital preservation were 
targeted within the industry sector set out in the IM. That multiple risks materialised causing 
performance to drop does not meant Octopus failed to invest in line with the mandate or that 
the EIS was mismanaged by Octopus.
It is unfortunate that other changes also later came into play, which Octopus have explained, 
for example, falling energy prices, further legislation changes that removed TRIAD benefits 
in November 2018 and changes to STOR in 2020 and reduction in demand for reserve 
power. But these risks were highlighted and I think Octopus have been reasonable in 
explaining how the collective impact caused underperformance. Illiquidity and delay in issuing share certificates
It was explained in the IM that the EIS was illiquid and funds would be tied into the investee 
companies for at least three years to secure the benefit of tax relief. Exit before this time 
would invalidate the EIS qualification. Ive seen that Octopus set out in the IM that 
realistically it would likely be at least four years before investors could exit. So, I consider it is 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T were aware or ought to have been aware that once 
funds were invested they would not have access to the capital for several years.
Octopus also explained within the IM that the issue of EIS 3 certificates could take some 
time as investee companies had to trade for four months before they could apply to HMRC 
for the certificates to be issued. Investors were able to track the progress of the process 
through Octopus portal. The application process was not within Octopus control and there is 
nothing to show that Octopus deliberately caused any certificates to be delayed. To be clear, 
the issue of these certificates did not impact the ability to withdraw funds, which has been 
addressed within the above paragraph.
Conflicts of interest
Mr and Mrs T have suggested there may have been conflicts of interest. But in the risk 
section in the IM, conflicts of interest were expressly addressed as a risk and Octopus went 
on to present a two-page section on potential conflicts of interest, setting out their conflicts 
process. On balance, Im persuaded that Octopus did provide clear information about 
conflicts of interest. Theres nothing to show that Octopus didnt follow its conflict process.
Goodwill Payment
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T feel that Octopus ought to have made a goodwill payment, 
because the EIS performed poorly but theres no requirement for them to do so. It was a 
matter within Octopus discretion whether to make any goodwill payments and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs T were misled about this or that they have been treated 
differently to others who invested in OEIS 18.
Conclusion
I have looked carefully at everything that has been said and I understand why Mr and Mrs T 
feel so strongly about what has happened to the investment. But I cant fairly say on the 
basis of the information provided that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear, fair and not 
misleading information to Mr T before he decided to invest or that they have failed to invest 
in line with the mandate given. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision, but I wont 
be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman