DRN-2800698
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint against Sesame Limited is about the investment advice she was given in 
2000.  
What happened
Mrs C met with an adviser from Sesame in 2000. Following the advisers recommendations, 
Mrs C invested £28,000 in a Sun Life bond. She later made several withdrawals from the 
bond before surrendering it fully in December 2005.
After speaking with her representative in 2019, Mrs C complained that the advice she was 
given in 2000 was unsuitable for her. When Mrs C first brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service, Sesame said it should fall outside our jurisdiction because Mrs Cs 
representative hadnt provided them with the information they needed in order to be able to 
investigate. Our investigator disagreed and said the complaint was one we could look at. 
Sesame accepted that and considered the merits of Mrs Cs complaint. 
Sesame decided that Mrs C had been given unsuitable advice and upheld her complaint. 
When they worked out what should be done to put things right, they calculated that Mrs C 
hadnt lost out and so no compensation was owing to her. Mrs C and her representative are 
unhappy with the way in which Sesame have worked out whether she should receive any 
compensation.
 
Our investigator didnt think Sesames calculations represented a fair resolution to Mrs Cs 
complaint. He set out how he thought Sesame should calculate fair compensation. 
Sesame disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the paperwork that Sesame have provided, it seems that Mrs C requested a meeting 
with the adviser in order to review her financial arrangements. The adviser said Mrs Cs main 
objective was to ensure her existing funds were invested in a way to maximise income but 
with the potential to achieve capital growth. The adviser said Mrs Cs attitude to risk was 
balanced.
Mrs C already held three investment bonds, with between £13,000 and £16,000 invested in 
each of them. The adviser recommended that Mrs C retain two of the bonds which were 
providing her with an income. He advised Mrs C to surrender the third bond, which wasnt 
providing an income. He recommended that the funds from the third bond, together with 
some of the lump sum from her late husbands pension, be invested in the Sun Life bond.   
Sesame accept that the advice given to Mrs C was unsuitable. They have said the 
investment was set up to provide an income, but Mrs C didnt need additional income at the 
time. Sesame also say that by surrendering her existing bond Mrs C missed out on a bonus 
payable at the end of six years (in 2003). They also think that, as Mrs C made a number of 
withdrawals in the two years that followed, she was advised to invest more than she could 
afford. Finally, Sesame say that as Mrs C had recently lost her husband, she should have 
been advised to maintain more funds on deposit and allow some time to pass before making 
decisions about where to invest. 
 
Ive looked at the calculations Sesame made to determine if Mrs C had lost out as a result of 
the unsuitable advice she was given. In summary, Sesame have said that Mrs C should 
have been advised to maintain her existing bond until it matured in February 2003. 
So, theyve calculated the estimated value of that bond if it had been surrendered in 2003 
using a standard benchmark (Private Investors Income Total Return Index). Theyve also 
taken account of the additional funds Mrs C invested from the pension lump sum and the 
withdrawals she later made.
Sesame have then assumed that from February 2003, Mrs Cs funds would have been 
invested at no risk. Theyve calculated what her funds would have been worth using the 
returns from Bank of England fixed rate bonds.
Based on these calculations Sesame have said that Mrs C didnt lose out. In other words, 
Mrs Cs funds achieved a better return from being invested in the Sun Life bond than if shed 
been given more suitable advice back in 2000.
Our investigator didnt think Sesame had calculated redress fairly and said Sesame should 
compensate Mrs C in line with the approach that our service would normally take to putting 
things right when a consumer has been given unsuitable advice. He said Mrs C wanted 
capital growth and was prepared to take a small level of risk to get a higher return. So, he 
said Sesame should compare the performance of Mrs Cs investment in the Sun Life bond 
with the following benchmark: 
For half the investment, the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. 
This would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get 
a higher return.
For the other half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds. This would be a fair 
measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their 
capital.
 
Its clear that if Mrs C had not been given unsuitable advice, her funds would have been 
invested differently. Sesame have in effect based their calculation on the advice they think 
Mrs C should have been given at the time. They have said she would have retained her 
existing bond and when she surrendered it in 2003 put the funds in a no risk investment. 
Ive considered carefully what Sesame have said, but I agree with the approach taken by our 
investigator. I cant be sure exactly what Mrs C would have done differently if she hadnt 
been given unsuitable advice. She might have kept her existing bond, but she might instead 
have invested that money or the funds from the pension lump sum elsewhere in line with her 
attitude to risk. And if Mrs C had kept her existing bond until it matured in 2003, any advice 
on where she should invest next would need to have taken account of her circumstances at 
that time. Again, I cant say exactly what Mrs C would have then chosen to do with her 
funds. 
In these circumstances and taking account of Mrs Cs attitude to risk at the time the advice 
was given, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Sesame to compensate her by 
comparing the performance of the full sum she invested in 2000 against the benchmark Ive 
described below.   Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs C as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mrs C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs C's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Sesame do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, Sesame must:
Compare the performance of Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Sesame should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Sun Life 
Bond 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investment14/12/058% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sesame 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Sesame totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mrs C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs C into that position. It does not mean that 
Mrs C would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs C could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against 
Sesame Limited.  
Sesame Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above. They should provide 
details of their calculation to Mrs C in a clear, simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman