DRN-3043163
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bos) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. Our service also explained that 
although BoS says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its 
made an offer as if it had.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back some 
of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. Ill explain why. 
BoS sold the PPI to Mrs B during a phone call. BoS isnt able to provide a copy of the 
sales call  this is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place from so long 
ago. Based on what I know about how BoS sold PPI I wouldve expected there to have 
been a discussion with the representative about the PPI to set up the policy. Mrs B also 
took out the credit card without initially selecting PPI, which indicates she knew it was an 
optional product. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs B knew 
the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs B was eligible for the cover and although 
she says she had employee benefits and savings, she still seems to have had a need for 
cover. I say this because the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than her employee sick 
pay and redundancy pay. It also wouldve paid out alongside these benefits. Mrs B says 
she had savings at the time, but the PPI wouldve allowed her to keep these savings 
intact or enable her to use them to cover any other costs and commitments she may 
have had at the time.
There was nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Mrs B has referred to health conditions, but these appear to have 
occurred after the date of sale. It seems at the time of sale she didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions that could affect her ability to claim 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs B 
would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mrs B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Bs case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mrs B about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mrs B unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mrs B back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut in any event BoS has offered to give back to Mrs B some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs B as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Bs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs B paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. Bank 
of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Mrs B if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman