DRN-2482333
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Privilege) accepted liability on her 
behalf for a motor incident and didnt share the other drivers dashcam footage. She is also 
unhappy that her no claims discount (NCD) was reduced from nine to three years. Also, 
shes concerned with the price that Privilege offered to renew her policy. 
At times, the named driver contacted Privilege on Mrs Bs behalf. But for simplicity Ive just 
referred to Mrs B in my decision as its her complaint. 
What happened
Mrs B renewed her motor insurance policy with Privilege in September 2018. In April 2019, 
Mrs B was alleged to have been involved in an incident which she says she doesnt recall. 
She also says there was no visible damage to the caravan involved.
 
The third partys insurer sent Privilege dashcam footage of the incident. Privilege accepted 
liability and it was recorded as a fault claim against Mrs B. 
 
When the policy was coming to an end in September 2019, Privilege made an offer to renew 
it. Privilege reduced Mrs Bs NCD to three years. Unhappy, Mrs B raised her complaint.  
 
Privilege responded and accepted they couldve asked the other drivers permission to share 
the dashcam footage. But they felt their decision on liability was correct based on the 
footage. Privilege also said that they allow nine years NCD. But if a customer makes a claim 
and they have over five years NCD then it would be reduced to three years. 
Mrs B was unhappy with their response and asked us to investigate. Initially, the investigator 
looked at the case and felt Privilege hadnt been clear about the NCD. However, a second 
investigator reviewed the case and issued a further view. Overall, they felt that Privilege 
acted fairly and reasonably. Privilege accepted the view, but Mrs B didnt. Therefore, the 
case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Settling the claim 
Ive reviewed the terms of the policy and can see Privilege explained that they were entitled 
to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of a claim in the name of 
any person covered by the policy. So under the terms of the policy it was for Privilege to 
decide how to deal with the claim. Its not the role of this service to decide whether an 
incident occurred or who was at fault. But we expect insurers to handle claims fairly and 
reasonably. This includes carrying out proportionate investigations and giving fair 
consideration to the relevant evidence. 
Mrs B told Privilege that she was not aware of any incident and that she hadnt noticed any 
damage to her vehicle. She explained she would be happy to have the vehicle inspected by 
an engineer. Ive reviewed the claim notes and can see Privilege considered what Mrs B 
said. For example, in April 2019 they recorded the claim as split liability because of Mrs Bs 
comments. However, they changed their position once they received the dashcam footage. 
I can see Privilege also reviewed Mrs Bs comments about the incident and lack of damage 
when she made a complaint in September 2019. However, they felt they made the right 
decision about settling the claim based on the other drivers dashcam footage.
Privilege say the dashcam footage shows Mrs Bs vehicle going over into the other drivers 
lane and hitting the other drivers car. They say it was only minor and because Mrs B had a 
caravan attached, they can understand why she wouldnt necessarily have been aware. 
Privilege havent been able to send us a copy of the video footage and have explained it is 
because they view the footage on a portal that our system doesnt recognise. However, 
theyve sent us screenshots and Im of the view this reasonably reflects what the footage 
shows. The screenshots have also been shared with Mrs B. She says they dont show that 
there was a collision. Ive carefully considered the screenshots, but Im satisfied theyre 
consistent with what Privilege has said about the footage. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied Privilege reasonably considered Mrs Bs 
comments but ultimately felt accepting liability was appropriate in light of the dashcam 
footage. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded this decision was wrong.  
However, it wouldve been helpful to share the dashcam footage sooner. I can see Mrs B 
requested it in April 2019 because she wasnt convinced an incident had occurred. But she 
was told that the footage couldnt be shared because of data protection. Privilege accept 
they couldve asked for the other drivers permission to share it and I agree. Sharing the 
footage at this time would have allowed her to better understand the decision made by 
Privilege.
However, sharing the footage wouldnt have changed Privileges decision to settle the claim. 
Also, Privilege arranged for the footage to be sent to Mrs B following her complaint. I 
appreciate how strongly Mrs B feels that the dashcam footage wasnt sent to her. But Ive 
seen an email which was sent to her on 29 September 2019 with a link to the footage. Our 
investigator has also sent her the stills and arranged for Privilege to resend the footage.
Unfortunately, Mrs B hasnt been able to access it. Nevertheless, Im satisfied Privilege have 
sent it and as Im satisfied they came to a fair conclusion with regard to settling the claim, I 
wont be asking them to do anything further. 
No claims discount (NCD)It isnt unusual for insurers to have a maximum amount of years NCD that theyll take into 
account or for this to differ between insurers. However, an insurer should specify what the 
maximum NCD allowance is and what the reduction would be in the event of a fault claim. 
This information should be clear in the policy documents and at the point of sale. 
Privilege are unable to provide the specific copy of the renewal invitation sent to Mrs B in 
September 2018. But they have sent a template of the letter. Im satisfied it was likely that 
this renewal invitation was sent to Mrs B. This is because her policy was renewed, and the 
renewal invitation wouldve contained the relevant information to enable her to make this 
decision.  
Having reviewed the letter, I note a table is included which sets out what would happen to 
the NCD in the event of a claim. In this table, Privilege set out that a nine years NCD would 
be reduced to three years. Therefore, Im satisfied it was fairly explained at the point Mrs B 
was considering whether to renew her policy. 
 
Ive considered the renewal documentation and can see at the top of the schedule, Privilege 
outlined that it should be read in conjunction with the policy booklet. Ive reviewed the terms 
set out within the policy booklet. I can see a table was also included which explained that in 
the event of a claim then a NCD of nine years would be reduced to three.
 
In response to the investigators view I note Mrs B was concerned that this was explained in 
the small print. She says the wording was totally wrong and confusing. I can appreciate how 
strongly she feels about this and I understand how much documentation she received.
However, Im persuaded by what Ive seen that Privilege were clear about what would 
happen to the NCD in the event of the claim. The tables were readily understandable and 
were appropriately displayed within the policy documents. As a result, Im not persuaded 
Privilege acted unfairly by reducing the NCD to three years.
  
Pricing
Mrs B is unhappy with the price which was offered by Privilege to renew her policy in 
September 2019. Shes concerned that it was based on age and she was unfairly 
discriminated against. 
Insurers will weigh up various factors and risks when deciding whether to offer to renew a 
policy and at what price. Each insurer will have its own view on what factors it takes into 
account and what weight to apply to them. Age is a factor which insurers can and do 
consider. However, I would expect Privilege to have treated Mrs B in the same way as any 
other consumer in the same circumstances. 
Both parties have been asked to provide information about the price of the renewal. Privilege 
have told us the quote is no longer available on their systems because it wasnt accepted by 
Mrs B. Also, Mrs B has told us she didnt keep a copy. This isnt unusual but it does mean I 
dont know exactly what was quoted. Therefore, I must decide based on the information I do 
have. 
Privilege have explained that the estimated claim cost increased to reflect the change in the 
NCD following the fault claim in April 2019. They say that age is also a factor when 
estimating the claim cost but that it wouldnt be as significant. 
It isnt unusual to see a price increase following a fault claim and as a result of a reduced 
NCD. Ive explained above why I consider the reduced NCD to be reasonable. Therefore, Im 
not persuaded Privilege were unfair to increase the price or that theyve treated Mrs B differently to any other consumer in the same circumstances. I also note that Mrs B had the 
opportunity to obtain other quotes and decided not to accept Privileges renewal offer. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman