DRN-3211124
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around April 2016, Mrs L was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mrs L decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In February 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ls behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the feed in tariff (FIT) would generate more than enough income, together with the 
electricity savings, to pay the cost of purchasing the system; and
Mrs L was told she would make significant savings on her electricity bills; and
Mrs L agreed to purchase the system based on this information for a cost of £8,995 
but the real cost of the system is higher than this due to the interest added onto the 
loan. The total cost is £17,489.80. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs L or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But 
it did accept that Mrs L had waited some time to receive its final response. They offered Mrs 
L £200, by way of an apology. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs L and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mrs L
denies ever having received or seen the quote; and
was told the system would be self-funding and agreed to proceed on that basis only; 
and
was never shown through the quote document and the figures and graphs were not 
explained; and
told the salesperson she couldnt afford to purchase the system if it would not pay for 
itself.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs L could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs L and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ls recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mrs L has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,995. She has suggested 
that this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with 
the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £17,489.80.Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs L makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£8,995. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the 
system was £8,995. The total amount of credit was £8,895 and goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £17,489.80.
And as the quote provided by P was clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due, as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,995, it would 
cost Mrs L more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mrs L has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and whether this supports what Mrs L has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs L could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs L could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £161.90.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs L could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is £297.62 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mrs L, the combined income and savings, in year one, are shown as 
£674.95. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs L entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.04. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £95.04, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs L could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
While I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs L that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs L was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 30 years. This shows that 
by year 17 the overall benefits that Mrs L could expect to receive would have exceeded the 
total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs L that the system would pay for itself by 
year 17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs L. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,688 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ls FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 4,236.62 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs L 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs L entered into the 
contract.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mrs L agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative, along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mrs L agreed to enter into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs L to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman