DRN-1603088
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the handling of a claim a third party made against his car 
insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited. 
All reference to the insurer, Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
In August 2017 a cyclist made a claim for damage and personal injury against Mr Cs policy 
following an incident. Mr C said that although there had been a dispute between the two 
parties, Mr Cs car hadnt made contact with the cyclist.
In June 2019 Mr C brought a series of complaints to us. In summary he said:
At renewal in September 2017 Mr C was charged a higher premium even though 
Advantage told him the claim wouldnt increase his premium. 
The engineers report said his car wasnt roadworthy, but it had passed its MOT a 
few days before the inspection. 
Advantages handling of the claim was poor.
In February 2018 Advantage replied to these complaints. It apologised for poorly handling 
the renewal of the policy and so it refunded the difference in premium and paid £50 
compensation. For the engineers report and some delays in instructing an investigator, it 
paid Mr C a further £100 compensation. It explained that it was dealing with the claim in line 
with the policy and it was awaiting further evidence from the third partys representative. 
In May 2018 Mr C was found guilty of driving without due care and attention relating to the 
incident and received points on his licence. In May 2019 he raised further complaints with 
Advantage. In summary he said:
Advantage didnt support him and failed to provide key documents which he feels 
would have helped his court case in 2018.
He isnt at fault for the incident.
In June 2019 Advantage paid Mr C £75 compensation for the time it took to provide an 
updated engineers report to confirm his car was roadworthy. But it said it couldnt comment 
on whether the report would have made any difference to his court case. 
It said due to the outcome of the hearing, it would have been almost impossible to defend 
the claim. The policy allowed Advantage to settle the claim as it sees fit. And as there were 
no independent witnesses or CCTV of the incident, it came down to one word against the 
other. In its experience, it said if the case went before a Judge, the likely outcome would be 
in the third partys favour. 
Mr C contacted us. And he complained that hed asked for a copy of the investigators report 
since the date he was visited  but Advantage hadnt sent him a copy. Mr C believes this 
would have made a difference to the outcome of his court case.
Mr C also raised a complaint about the information his broker gave him about making a 
claim against the legal expenses part of his policy. 
Our investigator thought that Advantage had dealt with the complaints reasonably. It had 
provided some poor service and caused some delay while dealing with the claim. But he felt 
the compensation it had paid was fair and in line with awards we would give in similar cases. 
The investigator thought Advantages decision to settle the claim was reached reasonably 
and in line with the policy. He explained that we couldnt look at or comment on the outcome 
of the court case. 
The investigator explained that he would raise Mr Cs complaints about not being able to use 
his legal expenses cover with the underwriter of that policy  as this wasnt Advantage. 
Mr C didnt agree. In April 2020 Mr C reiterated that the statement the investigator took from 
him and photos taken of the location would have had a direct bearing on the comments 
made at a pre-trial hearing in December 2018 and at trial. He doesnt agree with 
Advantages decision to settle the third party claim as he believes it is exaggerated. Mr C 
said he regularly asked Advantage to send him the investigators report, but it was never 
sent. He remains unhappy with the outcome of the court case and believes Advantages 
handling of the claim had a direct impact on the outcome of the trial.
We asked Advantage to send Mr C a copy of the investigators report. On receipt of this 
report, Mr C told us hes disappointed with what it said. He feels overall the service he 
received fell well short of what he expected. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we look at whether an insurer 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr Cs policy has a very common 
term which Ive seen in all motor insurance policies Ive come across. The term allows 
Advantage to conduct the defence or settlement of a claim and decide to admit liability. This 
means Advantage might make a decision Mr C doesnt agree with, but the policy allows it to 
do so. We dont disagree with the term in principle provided the insurer can show it treated 
its customer fairly when applying it.  
In May 2019 Advantage told Mr C it intended to settle the claim as 100% fault claim. When 
Mr C complained to Advantage in May 2019, he said he was unhappy with its decision. And 
he was unhappy that Advantage hadnt provided correct documents from the engineer and 
the investigators report. He believes this would have had a positive impact on his court 
hearing. 
As the investigator explained, we cannot comment on the outcome of a separate court 
hearing. But we can look at whether an insurer dealt with a claim in a reasonable way and in 
line with the policy. 
There isnt any evidence that Mr C requested a copy of the investigators report before he 
complained to Advantage in May 2019. But there is evidence he requested a copy of an 
engineers report showing that his car was roadworthy. Advantage arranged for an updated 
report to be sent to Mr C which was available before his trial. However, even with the amended engineers report, it still recorded damage to the front of 
Mr Cs car  which is where the cyclist said Mr C had collided with him. I appreciate that Mr 
C told the engineer this damage was already there. But I think it was reasonable for 
Advantage to take into account the findings of the engineer when deciding how best to settle 
the claim. 
I understand Mr C feels the investigators report  if hed received a copy before his trial  
would have had a positive impact. However, the investigator reported that it would be 
extremely difficult to defend the claim based on Mr Cs account and the evidence available. 
So I think the compensation Advantage paid for the delay in providing the updated 
engineers report was fair and reasonable. I cannot comment on whether Advantages 
handling of the claim had any impact on the outcome of the court hearing. However, I think 
its reasonable for Advantage to have considered the outcome of the court case when 
deciding how best to settle a claim  along with the other information available to it - and its 
knowledge of how likely a liability case like this would succeed if it went to court. 
Advantage asked to inspect the third partys bicycle. But the third partys representative said 
hed arranged repairs immediately as he needed his bicycle for commuting. However, 
Advantage received medical evidence to support the third partys claim for injury. There was 
no CCTV or independent witnesses. And there was reported damage to the front of Mr Cs 
car. So I think Advantages decision to settle the claim as a fault claim was reached in a fair 
and reasonable way based on all of the information available. This means I think the claim 
has been correctly recorded as a fault claim in line with the policy.
Advantage accepts that it agreed to refund the difference in premium to Mr C when it 
included the claim at renewal in September 2017. But it didnt do this on time. For the 
inconvenience caused, it refunded the difference in full and paid Mr C £50 compensation. 
For the delay in sending an updated engineers report and arranging for the investigator to 
visit, Advantage paid a total of £175 in February 2018 and June 2019. I think this was fair 
and in line with awards we would pay in cases similar to Mr Cs. 
I understand Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I think 
Advantage dealt with his complaints reasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman