DRN-1843868
The complaint
Ms C has complained about the service she received from Aspray Ltd, which acted as her 
loss assessor in relation to two insurance claims relating to her property. 
What happened
A number of parties were involved in the circumstances around this complaint. And the 
events in question were also lengthy, involving significant detail. These events are well 
known Ms C and Aspray. So, whilst I have considered these, I havent attempted to 
summarise them in detail here. However, it is worthwhile setting out the basic 
circumstances. 
Ms C owns a flat within a block. The factor for the block had taken out insurance with L. 
This policy provided cover, against certain perils, for the building itself and the fixtures and 
fittings within that building. Ms C also had her own policy, with N, which provided cover for 
her contents, etc. 
In 2018, cracks appeared in Ms Cs ceiling. She also experienced the ingress of water from, 
what was likely, more than one leak outside the confines of her flat. The water leaked into 
her bathroom and into her kitchen. One of these leaks has been reported as being caused 
by a water tank above her property which was subsequently removed. It is possible the 
cracks and related damage were as a result of renovation works being carried out in the 
property above hers, though there were some investigations into potential other causes.
A claim was made on the policy Ms C had with N in relation to the water damage. And a 
claim was made on the policy with L for the cracking. The building factor apparently 
authorised L to deal with Ms C in relation to this claim, insofar as it related to the interior of 
her property. 
Ms C herself instructed Aspray to deal with these claims on her behalf. The agreement to 
deal with claim on the policy with L was made in late November 2018, and that for the policy 
with N in December 2018. Whilst two contracts were involved in the instruction of Aspray, 
Ms Cs complaint relates to the joint handling of both of them, so this service has dealt with 
this as one matter. 
There was discussion over whether an assessment of the building, for potential subsidence 
issues, was necessary. Such an inspection did take place, but no relevant issues were 
identified. There was also some dispute over the extent of damage that was to be covered 
by the insurers, but ultimately settlements were agreed to cover the cost of repairs in May 
and June 2019, for L and N respectively. Further discussions about additional works took 
place around August/September 2019 and Ms C was also provided with a cash settlement to 
cover the cost of her alternative accommodation for the period of the repair works.
Repairs commenced, but Ms C wasnt happy with all of these and, ultimately, Aspray made a 
payment to Ms C so that she could complete the repairs using her own contractor. 
Ms C was unhappy with the length of time it took Aspray to deal with her claims, the level of 
communication she received from them, and with the settlement agreed not covering all 
items she considered damaged by the insured events. Ms C was also unhappy with the 
quality of works completed by Asprays contractors and felt that they had caused additional 
damage. 
Aspray apologised for the time taken, but explained that the claims involved dealing with a 
number of parties and that the extent of liability had been disputed. Aspray accepted that the 
claim had not been handled as well as it could have been. It offered Ms C £1,500 to 
compensate her and to complete the redecoration - even where works may not have been 
covered by the claim - and to make repairs to items that might have been damaged during 
rectification works. 
Ms C remained unhappy and pursued her complaint with this service. 
During the course of this complaint, further discussions took place around the costs of 
completing repairs/cleaning and additional sums were agreed. I have not detailed these 
however, as they do not form part of the considerations of this complaint.
Our investigator felt that although the claim had taken some time to deal with, the need for 
Aspray to liaise with multiple parties, obtain reports, and resolve the issues of liability meant 
that Aspray did not need to further compensate Ms C for this. She also felt that Asprays 
communications with Ms C were polite and professional. 
The investigator also considered whether the cost of repairing the kitchen kickboards in 
Ms Cs property should have been included in the settlement that had been agreed with the 
insurers. But felt that Aspray had been reasonable in concluding there was no damage to 
these that had been caused by an insured event, so these did not need to be included in the 
settlement that had been agreed.
Our investigator also explained that the jurisdiction of this service in terms of the events 
relevant to this complaint extends only so far. And that the work arranged by Aspray after the 
settlement of the claims, including any damage caused during these works, is not something 
that this service can consider. 
Ms C added that she was experiencing dampness in her bathroom, which she feels should 
have been resolved as part of the claim with N. Aspray responded to say that the repair of 
the leak was not part of the claim  as the leak originated beyond her flat -  and that Ms C 
would have to liaise with the factor of her building. Our investigator considered this to be 
appropriate. Ms C was unhappy with this and remained unhappy with the outcome reached 
by the investigator. As such, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Jurisdiction
The first key point for me to address is the limit on this services ability to consider all of the 
issues Ms C has raised. As the investigator has pointed out, this service is not able to 
consider all of the actions of Aspray or all of the issues raised. We are limited, in the 
circumstances, to considering Asprays actions in assisting in the administration and 
performance of a contract of insurance (as per Article 39A of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001). 
Largely speaking, this means that it is the actions of Aspray in negotiating the settlement 
with the insurers, and the associated communications with Ms C, that are the complaint 
points that I am able to consider. Once the settlement was agreed, the actions taken by 
Aspray to affect any repairs were not those taken to assist in the administration and 
performance of the contracts of insurance. The part of the process involving the insurers had 
concluded and these matters are then limited to a private contract between Ms C and 
Aspray; something that does not fall within this services remit. 
As such, I am unable to comment on the quality of repairs carried out by Asprays 
contractors, including whether or not any further damage was caused. I am also limited in 
the extent I cam able to consider certain other aspects of Ms Cs claims. 
The general administration of the claims
The majority of claimants in a personal home insurance claim do not employ a loss assessor 
to act on their behalf. But, where they do, they can reasonably expect to be provided with an 
appropriate level of service. And, though there will be a certain amount of work required of 
them, they should not have the need to heavily engage in the process themselves.
However, this must be balanced against the realities that some insurance claims can be 
complex. This is particularly true where there are concurrent claims, and also the 
involvement of third parties  in this case, this includes the factor and neighbours in Ms Cs 
building. Each of these parties has their own needs and often they are competing. The fact 
of employing a loss assessor does not make these issues disappear and some claims, 
whether a loss assessor is involved or not, can take many months to be resolved.
It should also be borne in mind that, whilst it is completely understandable that a claimant 
would want to know what was happening in relation to their claim and that they would want 
matters to proceed as quickly as possible, where a loss assessor has been employed a 
claimant may need to step back and allow this process to run its course. It is the case that 
communications from claimants to their insurers, in addition to communications from the loss 
assessor to the insurers can, at times, create problems of their own.
That said, I do appreciate that from Ms Cs perspective there were times when the progress 
of her claim did seem to have stalled. And that there were matters that she felt the need to 
personally involve herself in. She did not consider she was receiving the level of support 
from Aspray that she felt entitled to. So, I have considered the course of events in detail. 
Having done so I agree that there were occasions where Ms C was not kept fully up to date. 
I would not expect Aspray to keep her appraised of every incident and aspect of the claim. 
Ms C has referred to having been promised daily updates. I havent seen any supporting 
evidence of such a promise. But if daily updates had been provided, this would negate much 
of the benefit of having a loss assessor reduce the burden on the claimant. However, I do think Aspray needed to keep Ms C informed where there were significant 
changes to the claim process. And, though on many occasions Aspray did this, at times they 
did not. There were also some issues in arranging the settlement of alternative 
accommodation costs and Ms C felt she needed to take her own action.
I also understand that, from Ms Cs point of view, it seemed to be that there were occasions 
where it was her contact with the insurers that resulted in action. Some of this may have 
been coincidental, some of it may have actually been because the insurers were more 
persuaded to action as a result of her contact. 
However, the issue for me to determine is whether Aspray had acted appropriately or not. 
Aspray were liaising with the insurers, and other parties involved, to resolve the various 
issues of the claims. And, overall, I am not persuaded that they did not perform this side of 
things in the manner I would expect. There were some failings in Asprays work (during the 
course of assisting in the administration and performance of the contracts of insurance), and 
these did have some impact on Ms C that could otherwise have been avoided. But these 
failings were not, in my view, significant.
And whilst the process of the claim did take some time, Aspray had negotiated the initial 
settlements from the insurers within around 6 months of having been instructed for the 
claims. Aspray has apologised for the time taken. But, given the complexities involved, I 
dont consider this to be unreasonable. 
The settlement negotiated
The first thing I would note here is that Ms Cs claims only relate to the inside of her property. 
It is evident that a large proportion of the damage to the interior of her property was caused 
by events outside of its confines. Whilst I can fully appreciate that Ms C would want those 
problems resolved, rectification of those causes is not something that falls within the remit of 
a claim relating to the inside of her property. 
Some of the external issues were though resolved regardless. It seems likely for example 
that the water damage to her kitchen was caused by a water tank above her property. This 
tank was removed  albeit I have not been provided with evidence that this was due to the 
actions of Aspray. 
Ms C has though said that the cause of the water damage in her bathroom was not resolved. 
There is some dispute over the responsibility for resolving this. 
The specialist damp report carried out in January 2019 found that whilst some areas of 
previous dampness had dried; the wall next to the toilet, and beside the bathroom pipe 
chase, where the paint has peeled off is still very wet and requires drying. It was proposed 
that the pipe chase was opened up, in part to determine if there was still a leak. The report 
concluded that there was; no evidence to suggest that the leak occurred inside [Ms Cs 
flat].
The scope of works prepared by Aspray included; Replace pipe chase and areas nearby 
after trace and access investigations. Investigations into potential leak at wall, if found, to be 
resolved asap as pipe chase showing signs of water ingress. And the evidence Ive seen 
indicates that this chase was removed. 
Aspray has said that; No leak or issue found at that time. This is also a communal internal 
pipe that runs the course of the building. These are often moist to the touch in all fairness 
and if there was a leak or fracture to the pipe, it would be the Factors responsibility to 
resolve anyway.It seems Aspray appropriately negotiated a settlement to cover the cost of investigating 
whether there was a leak in the bathroom within Ms Cs property. Some of the works to carry 
out this investigation likely happened prior to the settlement of the claim. But, given the 
evidence Ive seen, it appears this investigation took place but did not discover any issue 
within Ms Cs property. 
It is possible the cause of dampness in Ms Cs property has not been resolved. But the 
repair of any leaks external to Ms Cs flat was not something that formed a part of the claims 
made in relation to Ms Cs property. And I am not persuaded that Aspray has failed in its 
obligations here  at least those it was required to fulfil as part of assisting in the 
administration and performance of a contract of insurance.
In terms of the repairs to the cracking of plasterwork, etc. I note there were some issues with 
the works that took place, including the need for alternative accommodation to be sourced. 
But the cost of the required repairs was covered by the settlement Aspray negotiated with L. 
There is still some dispute about the cost of repairing kickboards in the kitchen. It is not 
clear whether the alleged damage to these was raised with Aspray by Ms C prior to the claim 
being settled. But even if this was something Aspray should have taken into account prior to 
the settlement of the claim, both the insurers loss adjuster and Aspray have said that the 
damage to these was not caused by an insured event. I have seen nothing to persuade me 
otherwise. I also note that the cost of replacing certain other items that the loss adjuster said 
should be not be covered as part of the claim were met by Aspray.
Ms C has said that further damage was caused by Asprays contractors during the course of 
repair work. However, this work happened subsequent to the conclusion of the claims with L 
and N. As such, this is not something this service can consider. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Aspray achieved an appropriate settlement figure for the issues 
that were included within the claims. Whilst this may not have resolved all of the underlying 
problems Ms C experienced, I am unable to fairly and reasonably say that this was due to a 
failure of Aspray. 
Compensation
Overall, I dont consider Aspray caused any significant delays in the settlement of the claims 
subject to this complaint. And I do need to bear in mind what would reasonably be expected 
from a loss assessor when keeping a customer involved in a claim. But there were times 
when its communication with Ms C fell short of what might be reasonably expected. 
I also appreciate that throughout the course of the claim, Ms C encountered some difficult 
personal circumstances that would have increased the impact of any distress and 
inconvenience caused by those parts of the claims that did not run smoothly. I am sorry to 
hear of these circumstances and Ms C has my sympathies. 
However, Aspray offered to pay Ms C £1,500 to be used to resolve the repair issues that 
were outstanding and to compensate her for the way the claims had been handled. Insofar 
as this relates to the compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her by any failings in 
Asprays action in assisting in the administration and performance of a contract of insurance, 
I consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer. My final decision
Aspray Ltd has offered to pay Ms C £1,500 to resolve her complaint. I consider this fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Aspray should pay Ms C this amount if it 
has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman