DRN-3275095
The complaint
Mr M complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services UK limited ended. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt allowed to adjust his 
contract.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. The contract was due to end in September 2021.
In early 2021 Mr M contacted MBFS and explained that because of the pandemic he hadnt 
used the expected contractual mileage. He asked to reduce the mileage or extend the term. 
MBFS declined the request.
In September 2021 the car was inspected and collected. A second inspection followed. 
MBFS later asked Mr M to pay damage charges.
Mr M disputed the charges. He said he was aware of some damage which he accepted fell 
outside of fair wear and tear, but he disputed that there was any damage inside the rear 
doors and said he wanted a second opinion about this.
In response, MBFS said that the damage identified at the inspection fell outside of fair wear 
and tear and that the charges were correct. It said it had provided Mr M with the vehicle 
returns standards  at the start of the agreement and that he had the opportunity to familiarise 
himself with these and arrange for any necessary repairs to be carried out before returning 
the car. MBFS said it wasnt obliged to offer a second opinion about the damage because 
this purpose had been served by the second inspection. In relation to Mr Ms complaint 
about the mileage, MBFS said it didnt offer incentives for customers who returned a car 
under mileage.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that MBFS had applied the charges 
fairly. He said he couldnt see anything in the agreement which obliged MBFS to reduce the 
mileage allowance on request. He also said there was nothing in the agreement to suggest 
that the customer would receive an incentive for returning the car under mileage. The 
investigator said he was satisfied that all of the damage was present when the car was 
collected and that the damage identified fell outside of the relevant fair wear and tear 
guidelines.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the inspector hadnt identified any damage inside the doors at the 
first inspection. He also said he didnt agree that the photos of the rear doors evidence ed 
the damage for which hed been charged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr M must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in identifying whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards which set out what is considered to be 
acceptable wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The first inspection identified 
damage and noted that a second inspection was needed. The second inspection identified 
damage to several areas of the car , some of which had been identified at the first in section 
and some of which hadnt.
Ive reviewed all the damage and in doing so, Ive had regard to the MBFS vehicle returns 
standards and the BVLRA guidelines. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that all of the 
damage falls outside of acceptable wear and tear. So I think the charges have been applied 
fairly.
Mr M has said that the inspector at the first inspection remarked to him that there was no 
damage inside the doors where it usually occurs. The second inspection identified damage 
inside the doors. I wasnt present at the inspection, so I cant be certain of exactly what was 
said. I can see that the first inspection didnt identify damage to the inside doors. But I can 
see that the second inspection did identify damage in this area. Based on the photos Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that there is damage inside the doors which goes beyond acceptable 
wear and tear. So, Ive given consideration to whether the damage could have occurred in 
between the two inspections. 
MBFS has said that this type of damage wouldnt occur in transit. It has also said that once 
the car is collected, the collection agents are under an obligation to report any damage, and 
that in this instance, no damage was reported.
I can see that the second inspection was carried out around 12 days after the first. During 
this time, the car covered over 100 miles. The second inspection took place at a de-fleet 
centre, which explains the mileage covered. I understand that Mr M feels very strongly that 
the damage to the inside doors wasnt present when the car was collected. The second 
inspection is a much more detailed inspection and its not unusual for damage which wasnt 
identified at the first inspection to be identified at the second. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that the car suffered damage in between the two inspections. On the balance of 
probabilities, its more likely that the damage to the inside doors occurred during the two 
years that the car was in the possession of Mr M, than in the 12 days in between the two 
inspections.
Mr M has expressed unhappiness that MBFS wouldnt allow him to adjust the mileage. He 
asked for the mileage to be reduced or the term extended. Ive thought about whether MBFS 
acted fairly when it declined this request. In doing so, Ive had regard to the terms of the 
agreement.
Theres nothing in the agreement which says that MBFS is obliged to allow a mileage 
reduction during the contract if one is requested. I understand that the pandemic meant that 
Mr M didnt use the car as much as he thought he would when he entered into the contract. 
However, the pandemic was beyond the control of Mr M and MBFS, and theres no 
contractual right to an adjustment. So, I cant say that MBFs acted unfairly in declining the request.
Theres nothing in the agreement which says that a car which is returned under mileage 
entitles the customer to any benefit or offsetting against damage charges,. So again, whilst I 
appreciate that Mr M didnt utilise the full mileage allowance, theres nothing in the 
agreement which obliges MBFS to offer any reduction in charges.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to uphold the complaint. Im satisfied that the 
charges for damage have been applied fairly and I dont think MBFS has done anything 
wrong in declining the request to adjust the mileage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman