DRN-4435616
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund over £40,000 he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief, Mr S fell victim to a fake job scam after he clicked on an advert on a 
social media website - I will call the scammer B. B told Mr S that he would be paid for 
completing a number of tasks, but he would have to purchase these tasks first using crypto 
currency. So, over a couple of months, Mr S made over 30 card payments totalling over 
£40,000 to three crypto exchanges, where the funds were used to purchase crypto which 
was then forwarded onto B.
Mr S realised he had been scammed after he was unable to withdraw the balance that he 
could see on Bs website, without paying further fees.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that Monzo ought to have 
questioned Mr S about the last payment that he made on 17 June 2022. The investigator 
thought that, had that happened, the scam would likely have been stopped. Therefore, the 
investigator said that Monzo should refund the money Mr S had lost from this payment 
onwards, less a deduction of 50% in recognition of Mr Ss own contributory negligence. 
Monzo disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr S has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that he authorised the 
disputed payments he made to the scammer (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments were requested by 
him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers, in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr S from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character for that account holder. 
I understand the investigator considered that the final payment of £1,540 made by Mr S on 
17 June 2022 ought to have been regarded as unusual, given that it was the third largish 
payment made on the same day to the same scammer. I agree with this because, not only 
was it the third payment made on the same day, over 10 payments had been made within 
three days to a new payee. In my view this really should have been flagged by Monzo as 
being unusual account activity. Monzo would have known that multiple payments being 
made to the same payee in quick succession can often be an indication of fraudulent activity. 
So Im satisfied this payment ought reasonably to have been considered as unusual and 
triggered an intervention by Monzo.
I note that Monzo likely did have suspicions about the pattern of spending, because Mr Ss 
account was frozen around this point and Monzo did ask Mr S in text chat about the 
payments. However, I dont think that this went far enough, especially as Mr S did call 
Monzo on 17 June 2022 and 18 June 2022 to unblock his account. Had Monzo used this 
opportunity to ask suitably probing questions, there is no reason to suggest he wouldnt have 
been forthcoming about what he was doing. If Monzo had questioned Mr S about these 
payments, it would have likely discovered that he had been contracted out by a company 
offering to pay Mr S for completing tasks, But Mr S had been told that he would first have to 
pay for these tasks using crypto currency. I also think that Monzo wouldve discovered that 
Mr S had a balance that he was trying to withdraw and he needed to pay additional funds to 
achieve this. 
This is not how companies normally operate and it has all the hallmarks of a crypto scam. I 
consider there would have been reasonable grounds for suspicion here. And Monzo ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with cryptocurrency scams.
Monzo does not believe it is liable for Mr Ss loss, as it said it occurred from his crypto 
accounts rather than his Monzo account. However, Monzo is aware of our general position 
on a Payment Service Providers safeguarding and due-diligence duties to protect customers 
from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many decisions on our 
website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and regulations. Therefore 
I wont rehash them again here in detail.
I appreciate that the crypto exchanges in question are legitimate. But I think Monzo still 
should have provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about the 
increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency. By the time Mr S made the 
payments, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and its reasonable to 
conclude that banks, such as Monzo, had also had time to digest these warnings and put 
mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud affecting its customers.
I recognise that if an intervention by Monzo had taken place, it likely wouldve identified that 
the payment was going to the consumers own account with the crypto exchanges in 
question. But I dont think the conversation should have stopped only on the basis that the 
money appeared to be going somewhere safe and within the consumers control.
I say this because, by the time Mr S made these payments, Monzo ought reasonably to have 
had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked, to have been able to identify 
the risk of harm occurring to its account holders from fraud. This includes the consumer 
often making a number of purchases of crypto assets in a relatively short space of time or a 
consumer repeatedly sending money to a platform where the money is subsequently moved 
on to or taken by the scammer. So, it is with this in mind that I think Monzo ought to have 
probed further about the nature and context of the payments Mr S was making.In light of this, I think Mr Ss losses were foreseeable to Monzo, despite the payment on the 
face of it not leaving his control. And Im satisfied that, had Monzo asked relevant questions 
of Mr S, it would have been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. In other words, but 
for Monzos failure to make reasonable further enquiries, it would have been on notice that 
there was a very high chance that Mr S was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. 
Had Monzo provided Mr S with a warning, it would have likely alerted him to the common 
issues arising in relation to cryptocurrency scams. I think this, in turn, would have led Mr S to 
question whether he was in fact dealing with a legitimate business  especially as he had 
made a number of payments to B but had yet to receive any payments back from B. The 
result of this is that, probing questions from Monzo about the nature of the payments would 
have likely stopped Mr S from making any further payments. 
As a result, I believe Monzo should refund the payments Mr S lost to the scam from and 
including the final £1,540 payment made on 17 June 2022. 
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. And I 
have duly considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. In the circumstances, Im satisfied he should do so in this case.
In the circumstances, I dont consider Mr S carried out sufficient due diligence to ensure that 
the company he was dealing with was genuine. Mr S seems to not know how much he would 
be paid for doing the tasks in question - which would seem important to know given the 
money involved and given that Mr S says he viewed the tasks he was completing as work. I 
also note that the scammer claimed to be a well known online shopping platform and I dont 
think it particularly realistic that the platform in question would hire people via WhatsApp and 
without any apparent formal application or induction process. 
I also note that the scammer referred to the IRS rather than HMRC when questioned about 
by Mr S about whether he would be an official employee. A legitimate UK employer should 
know that the tax authority in the UK is HMRC, rather than the IRS as B referred to in the 
WhatsApp messages. I also think the tone of some of the messages from B were 
unprofessional, which again should have been a red flag for Mr S that he was not carrying 
out the tasks for, or sending money to the well known online shopping platform.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr Ss lack of due diligence and failure to question what he was 
being promised contributed to his loss, such that he should share responsibility with Monzo. 
Because of this, Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Recovery
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to attempt to recover the 
faster payments after Mr S reported the fraud. However, the funds were forwarded on from 
the crypto exchanges to B as part of the scam. So once Mr S had done that, which it seems 
he did so as soon as the money reached his crypto wallet, there was then no money in 
which to recover.
I also dont consider Monzo ought to have attempted a chargeback claim, as Mr S made 
payments to get crypto and he seems to have received this before he forwarded it on to B. 
So he got what he paid for.Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund the payments Mr S lost to the scam from and including the final payment 
made on 17 June 2022 onwards, less a deduction of 50% in recognition of Mr Ss 
own contributory negligence towards his loss. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, calculated from the date of loss until 
the date of settlement, minus any applicable tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the 
redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman