DRN-2122063
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 2002. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed 
saying we have dismissed his clear and comprehensive recollection of the sale, and that the 
investigation clearly wasnt impartial. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here) I have made my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities - so, based on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence, and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.  As an independent 
and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no 
benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was told he had to have PPI to get the mortgage. Hed spoken to many other 
mortgage providers who couldnt offer him a mortgage because hed been overseas for 
many years, and so had a limited credit history. So he had little choice when he went ahead 
with this mortgage. He says he signed for the PPI under duress; he didnt complete or date 
the forms or tick the box for PPI. He was told hed have to sign despite not being made 
aware of the contents.  Lloyds disputes this and says its more likely than not the optional 
nature of the product was verbally explained before the sale concluded.
I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented, so I have 
considered Mr Hs comments carefully and looked at the available paperwork from the sale. 
On Mr Hs mortgage application form the options to select or decline PPI were set out with 
equal prominence. The form shows Mr H selected it. I note his point that the form was 
completed on his behalf, but he was applying for a mortgage and I would have expected him 
to read it carefully before signing. The form made clear PPI could be declined. He then 
signed a separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. Again I note he says this 
was completed for him, but he signed it, so again I would have expected him to read it 
carefully before signing. There was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have 
led Mr H to believe the PPI was mandatory. 
Whilst I dont doubt Mr Hs comments are his honest recollections of the sale, I also have to 
take into account how long ago it was, and what the documentary evidence from the sale 
shows. I havent found enough other evidence to support his claim that he was pressured to 
sign and told he had to take PPI. Overall, on balance, I think its more likely Lloyds made it 
clear the PPI was optional and Mr H agreed to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr H says he 
was entitled to some form of sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also 
gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. And Ive seen no evidence he had significant 
savings or other insurances I need to consider.
Mr H was borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on his home. So the effects of 
not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr H if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr H all the information he needed before deciding to buy 
PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but the cover was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the 
PPI didnt cover. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
exclusions. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed his mind 
about buying it.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman