DRN-1991216
The complaint
Miss M says she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection (PPI) insurance policy by 
Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
Miss M bought the policy at around the same time as applying for a mortgage through 
Nationwide in 1999. It covered her repayments in the event of her disablement or 
unemployment. 
Before the complaint was brought to us, Nationwide agreed to compensate Miss M for the 
disability element of the policy it sold her. The policy was also available as unemployment 
only cover. As such, weve considered the sale of the unemployment cover in this complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss M didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss M says Nationwide didnt explain the policy was optional. I dont know for sure how 
Nationwide presented the PPI as, understandably given the time thats passed, there are 
gaps in the information thats still available. 
In my view, its just as likely that Nationwide did explain to Miss M that the PPI was optional, 
and got her agreement for it to be added, and that she may have forgotten. So, overall, I 
cant fairly uphold the complaint on these grounds.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Nationwide recommended the PPI to Miss M. Although it 
still needed to ensure it gave her clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so 
that she could decide for herself if it was right for her. 
I dont know if Nationwide gave Miss M the information she needed but I dont think better 
information would have stopped her from taking the PPI in any case. I say that because, 
from what I know of Miss Ms circumstances at the time: 
She was eligible for the policy and was unaffected by the main things the policy 
excluded or limited cover for.
Shed have found the monthly premium affordable. And the PPI was flexible in that 
she could have cancelled it at any time and at no extra cost if she decided she longer 
wanted it.
Miss M didnt seem to have any other formal means to meet the repayments, and 
protect her home, if she lost her job. She says she could have relied on her parents 
for support if she needed it. But there was no guarantee theyd have been able to 
help, whereas the PPI benefits were guaranteed. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Miss M lost out because of how Nationwide 
sold her the PPI unemployment cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman