DRN-4299830
Complaint
Mr B has complained about loans Inclusive Finance Limited (trading as Credit Spring) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and if his situation had been reviewed 
properly, it would have been impossible to think that lending to him was safe.
Background
Credit Spring provided Mr B with a loan facility for £500 in May 2022. The terms of the facility 
meant that Mr B could make two separate drawdowns of £250. But Mr B could only 
drawdown the second £250 once hed repaid the first £250. Mr B also had a maximum of six 
months to repay each drawdown. 
While there was no interest to be paid on the loans themselves, Mr B did have to pay an £8 
a month membership fee for 12 months. This meant that if Mr B did draw down both loans 
hed have maximum payments of just under £50 a month for 12 months.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr B and Credit Spring had told us. And she didnt 
recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a bit more detail.
Credit Spring needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Credit Spring needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Credit Spring says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and checks in relation to how much money was 
going into Mr Bs account. In Credit Springs view all of this information showed Mr B could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr B has said he was in financial difficulty and given it was lending to 
those who had lower credit scores at higher rates of interest, Credit Spring ought to have 
done more than the minimum required checks.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Credit Spring have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Credit Spring didnt just simply accept what Mr B said. It 
carried out credit searches which showed that Mr B had had previous difficulties with credit. 
But these were for the most part historic and what Mr B did have at the time was being 
reasonably managed. And given the low monthly payments required here and the being a 
first arrangement, I dont think that it was unreasonable to rely on Mr Bs declarations, which 
suggested that the repayments were affordable. 
I accept that Mr B appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Credit Spring 
obtained. Ive seen that Mr B says that due to personal issues he was experiencing at the 
time his salary wasnt being paid into his account. It was being paid to someone else and he 
was only having funds transferred to his account by them. Im sorry to hear about what Mr B 
has told us and what has happened in his personal life since his agreement with Credit 
Spring. 
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of 
other obvious indicators of an inability to make the low monthly payments in the information 
Credit Spring did obtain, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
extended into requesting the information that would have shown Mr Bs personal issues at 
the time. And Credit Spring wouldnt have been in a position to know that M Bs employment 
situation would change for the worse in the future.
At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im not 
necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as 
finding out more about Mr Bs regular living costs. And I dont think that conducting a full 
financial review  which was really the only way that it might have been able to find out the 
full extent about Mr Bs circumstances - was the only way that Credit Spring could have done 
this. Indeed, I think going as far as this would have been disproportionate given the 
circumstances.  
As this is the case, I dont think that Credit Spring did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks (albeit I accept that Mr B doesnt agree that 
these went far enough) and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Credit Spring treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B as I can see that he feels strongly about this matter. But I hope 
hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Credit Spring of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on Mr Bs loan, in light of what hes said about his current financial position and 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman