DRN-1447071
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to problems 
surrounding the servicing of a commercial loan (the loan) to purchase business premises.
What happened
Lloyds had provided a fee free current account to Mr S and Mrs S when they first took out 
the loan. The current account serviced the loan, and this was agreed at the discretion of the 
manager at the time. 
In early 2019, following a change in manager, their new manager explained that going 
forward charges would apply to the current account, but as an alternative a fee free loan 
servicing account (LSA) could be opened and their existing current account closed. But the 
LSA was only to be used for the payment of the loan. Although Mr S and Mrs S had been 
content with the existing arrangements, and had not wanted them to change, they ultimately 
opened an LSA in March 2019. Their old current account was then set to close with the 
transfer of the balance to the LSA.
Lloyds accept they failed to close the old current account and transfer the balance, and that 
caused the LSA to be overdrawn and incur charges. Lloyds then waived those charges, 
closed the old current account and transferred the balance to the LSA in August 2019.
Mr S and Mrs S also complained that Lloyds wouldnt set up a Direct Debit (DD) from 
another bank account for the monthly loan payments. Lloyds said that a Lloyds Business 
Loan could only receive monthly payments from a specifically nominated Lloyds account, 
and payments couldnt be claimed from other bank accounts. So, they couldnt set up a DD 
and suggested Mr S and Mrs S set up a Standing Order (SO) from their other bank account. 
Mr S and Mrs S did set up a SO but say it is inconvenient and would prefer a DD.
And Mr S also feels Lloyds has ruined his reputation and creditworthiness as they withdrew 
his arranged overdraft facility. He thinks this is a direct result of his old account incurring 
charges.
Lloyds accepted they failed to close the old current account and transfer the balance. They 
apologised for the delays caused and paid £250 in compensation for that, as well as £25 for 
a refund of the fees charged.
Mr S and Mrs S were unhappy with Lloydss final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator agreed that there had been 
poor service but thought the amount of compensation paid was enough to put things right. 
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
not responding to every single point made rather Im going to focus on what I think are the 
key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the nature of our service as an 
informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Its clear Lloyds failed to close the old current account and transfer the balance over to the 
LSA. Lloyds have accepted that because of that it should compensate Mr S and Mrs S. 
In relation to Lloyds not setting up a DD, Lloyds have explained that their procedures do not 
allow for this. I very much appreciate that Mr S says his experience is otherwise, but 
nevertheless it remains the case that currently Lloyds do not offer that facility with respect to 
their LSA. As disappointing and frustrating as that might be for Mr S and Mrs S, that is a 
commercial decision Lloyds are entitled to make, and I have no power to tell them that they 
must change it. And I can understand that Lloyds suggestion of the use of a SO might be 
inconvenient for Mr S and Mrs S, but this is a method by which the LSA can be serviced. As 
Lloyds have acted in accordance with their own policies and procedures I cant say they 
have acted unfairly.
Looking at this impartially, I also think that Lloyds decision here was fair. Lloyds have 
explained that the reason it did this was because the original arrangement had been arrived 
at through the discretion available to the previous manager. Lloyds have explained that each 
manager has authority to exercise their own discretion on such issues, and so the new 
manager was properly working within his discretion when he reviewed and changed the 
arrangement. So, Im satisfied that alongside being a commercial decision Lloyds is entitled 
to make, that it made that decision fairly here too.
Mr S has produced a letter from Lloyds dated 13 July 2019 which shows that they had 
carried out a review of his arranged overdraft facility to see if it was still appropriate, and 
decided it wasnt. I do think that review would have been triggered by Mr Ss LSA becoming 
overdrawn, but Lloyds were entitled to do that anyway. So, although that triggered the 
review, Lloyds were entitled by virtue of paragraph 4.5 of the Terms and Conditions of 
Business to withdraw or restrict any right to an overdraft or demand immediate repayment of 
the overdraft. 
Although Mr S believes his reputation has been ruined and his creditworthiness adversely 
affected, there is no evidence that this the case. And in any event, for the reasons already 
given, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly here in a way that would mean I could fairly hold 
them liable for that. 
Ive given some thought as to what an appropriate, fair and reasonable level of award might 
be. Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar 
cases, and also in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had on Mr S 
and Mrs S.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what Lloyds paid is fair and reasonable and enough 
to put matters right. So, I cant say Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman