DRN-2867307
The complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No 1 Limited provided him with a conditional sale agreement 
for a car in 2015 which was unaffordable.
What happened
In January 2015 Mr J entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car with 
Moneybarn. The cost of the car was £10,388 and the cost of the interest was around £8,519 
making a total amount to pay off around £18,905 via 60 monthly payments of about £320.
Mr J says that at the time he entered into this credit agreement he was struggling financially 
and that if Moneybarn had done a thorough check by looking at his bank statements it would 
have discovered that he wasnt going to be able to afford the payments.
Mr J missed payments under the agreement and a default notice was issued by Moneybarn 
in July 2015. A Consent Order was entered into by Mr J in October 2015 and a payment 
schedule was set for 12 monthly payments of around £460 followed by 40 payments of 
around £320. Mr J didnt keep to these payments and the car was repossessed and sold at 
auction. There was a shortfall left to clear under the agreement which Mr J has been paying 
at the rate of £25pm.
Mr J complained to Moneybarn that the agreement was unaffordable, and it hadnt carried 
out sufficient checks to ensure it was affordable for him. Moneybarn didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said it had obtained copies of his payslips as well as undertaking a credit check 
and although there was a defaulted account on his credit record this had been 18 months 
before this agreement and so was historic. It said Mr Js other credit accounts appeared to 
be being paid as required. 
Moneybarn said that the repayments for this agreement equated to less than 25% of Mr Js 
monthly income and this complied with its lending criteria.
Mr J disagreed with the view of Moneybarn and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He said that although he didnt 
think Moneybarn had made reasonable and proportionate checks into Mr Js income and 
outgoings he thought that if it had, that it would have considered the loan had been 
affordable.
Mr J disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that he didnt think the checks 
carried out by Moneybarn had been in-depth enough and it should have asked him for 
copies of his bank statements. If Moneybarn had, Mr J says, it would have seen that he had 
a financial problem.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I need to take into 
account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are two 
overarching questions I need to think about in order to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr J would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Mr J wouldve been able to sustainable repay the agreement?
Looking at the first question, I agree with the view of our investigator in that I dont think 
Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks despite its representations 
that it did, and I will explain why. 
Moneybarn says the checks it carried out complied with the requirements of the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) set out in the FCAs handbook when assessing affordability. 
CONC says that a credit provider, in order to responsibly lend, is required to carry out 
what is referred to as an affordability check and this check should be borrower focused. 
This is to verify Mr J could sustainably afford the borrowing when looking at his particular 
circumstances.
CONC also says that checks are to be reasonable and proportionate and whats 
considered to fit that test will depend on a number of factors such as the amount of credit; 
the total repayable and the size of the regular payments; the duration of the agreement, 
the cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Here, the total amount payable was around £18,905 with monthly payments of about 
£320 over a five-year term. Moneybarn had requested payslips from Mr J and had 
calculated his monthly income to be around £1,729. The monthly repayments for the 
car equated to 19.52% of his monthly take home pay which I think is reasonable to say 
was a sizable and lengthy credit agreement for Mr J to enter into and, due to that, I 
think the affordability check needed to be thorough for it to satisfy the requirement set 
down in CONC. 
From information Ive seen, I understand Mr J was single, working in a full-time post 
and paying rent for his accommodation. I appreciate he had also signed the conditional 
sale agreement confirming that the payments were affordable for him, but I dont think 
that meant that Moneybarn wasnt still required to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks.
Im not sure how many payslips Moneybarn obtained from Mr J but it appears to have 
been more than one as it averaged out his earnings to be £1,729.04.  Mr J has supplied 
this service with five months worth of bank statements from September 2014 until 
February 2015. And averaging out his monthly pay from these statements I have also 
calculated his monthly income to have been around £1,720. So, I think Moneybarn had 
sufficiently verified Mr Js income.
However, although Moneybarn carried out a credit check on Mr J, I dont know what 
other information it had sought regarding his commitments. I havent seen that any 
figures were obtained as to essential expenditure. I also dont know what the credit check showed as a copy cant now be provided. Moneybarn says there was one 
defaulted account which was 18 months old at the time of the inception of this 
agreement. It also appears Mr J had other credit agreements he was servicing. I think 
that the default wasnt so old that it shouldnt have raised further enquiries to ensure this 
agreement was sustainably affordable for Mr J. So, I think in the circumstances it would 
have been reasonable and proportionate for Moneybarn to have asked about Mr Js rent 
other expenses.
So, I dont think Moneybarn has properly gathered information about Mr Js 
expenses/financial commitments and information outside of what was in Mr Js credit 
record was required when considering the length and proportion of his monthly income 
that would be committed to paying this agreement. Moneybarn should have checked Mr 
J wasnt overcommitting when taking on this agreement.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Moneybarn completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would be able to repay this agreement in a 
sustainable way. This means I now need to consider that if Moneybarn had carried out 
those checks, would it have shown Mr J was able to repay this agreement in a 
sustainable way.
Mr J has provided this service with copies of his bank statements from around the time he 
entered into this agreement. He says that Moneybarn should have required these from him 
too as then it would have been alerted that he had a particular spending problem which was 
likely to lead to financial problems. He says this problem would have been obvious from 
those bank statements as it would have shown a large number of payments going out. But, 
while I agree Moneybarn should have done further checks about his income, I dont think I 
can reasonably say it should have required copies of bank statements and then assessed 
each of Mr Js outgoings to see if there were any inappropriate spending patterns. I dont 
think it would have been proportionate to the size of the credit agreement for Moneybarn to 
have undertaken the level of scrutiny of how Mr J spent his money that he suggests it should 
have undertaken. I think asking further questions about essential expenses would have been 
enough. That means asking questions about rent, utilities and insurances.
I also dont think I would have reasonably expected Moneybarn to have uncovered Mr Js 
particular spending problem from the one default recorded on his credit file. Moneybarn says 
his other credit agreements were being managed by him and looking at the amount of his 
repayments and his income I dont think there were any clear red flags that Mr J was 
struggling due to this particular issue.
Looking at Mr Js outgoings I can see that he had the following expenses each month:
Rent £600
Utilities £44
Council Tax £121
Other credit payments £97
Insurance £42
Petrol £52
WiFi £29
Breakdown cover £3
TV Licence £19
Phone £35
Total expenses = £1042
This leaves Mr J with around £687pm as disposable income from which he would need to pay food and other expenses. Deducting the cost of this agreement from that figure 
would leave Mr J with around £366pm.
So, when considering the amount of disposable income Mr J had and the monthly cost of 
the loan, I think its more likely than not Moneybarn would have decided the loan was 
sustainably affordable for Mr J. 
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman