DRN-1627851
 
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
she made under her car insurance policy following an incident. Mrs Ns husband is dealing 
with her complaint on her behalf.  
What happened
Mrs N was involved in an incident with another car in February 2019. She immediately 
reported it to her insurer, Admiral. Liability was disputed by the other driver. 
In July 2019 Mrs N complained to Admiral. She said it wasnt being proactive in its handling 
of the claim. Shed provided it with details of an independent witness and given details of a 
shop owner who had CCTV footage of the incident.  She wanted Admiral to ask the police 
for details of the witness who had called them to report the incident. She was unhappy that 
the claim was still open and had an impact on her and her husbands premium at renewal. 
In August 2019 Admiral upheld Mrs Ns complaint and said it should have been more pro 
active. If it had, it said it would have prepared the case for possible court proceedings to look 
to recover their claim costs sooner. Admiral said it had chased the third party representatives 
for a response to their claim and had forwarded the witness statement. But it hadnt replied. 
Admiral apologised and paid Mrs N £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused. It said it asked the owner of the CCTV footage to give his permission for 
Admiral to use it. But he didnt provide this and has subsequently taken the footage down 
from an online public platform.
Mrs N remained unhappy as she said Admiral hadnt provided any details of how it intended 
to progress her claim. So she asked us to look at her complaint and raised a new complaint 
with Admiral. Mrs N wanted us to direct Admiral to close the claim: and to compensate for 
the inconvenience caused to her and her husband in dealing with Admiral and for the 
increase in premium at renewal. 
Mrs N wanted us to fine Admiral, ask it to provide general claims data information and its 
training procedures, along with the claim notes and call recordings.
In October 2019 Admiral upheld Mrs Ns second complaint as it accepted it failed to follow 
up on the claim since August 2019. It paid Mrs N £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator explained that we dont decide liability  and it isnt our role to fine or punish 
businesses. He agreed Admiral had caused delay by its handling of the claim and could 
have been more proactive. 
The investigator explained that we cant ask Admiral  or any insurer  to close a claim. 
Liability was in in dispute in this case. We look at whether an insurer has made a mistake, 
what it has done to put things right and whether that is fair and reasonable. In this case, he thought Admiral had made mistakes  but that it had done enough to resolve Mrs Ns 
complaint. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said the additional £100 compensation was in relation to ongoing poor 
service. He doesnt believe its right for Admiral to keep the claim open indefinitely while 
waiting for the third party to reply. He believes we should be able to ask Admiral for its 
internal claims procedures within the remit of our investigation to see if it is treating its 
customers fairly. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I don't intend to uphold 
it. I'll explain why.
Our role is to look at the information provided by both parties and on the merits of each 
complaint to decide whether an insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. The 
Financial Conduct Authority is the regulator of Admiral and so its not for us to issue fines or 
carry out the role of the regulator.  
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer has carried out a proper investigation and dealt with the claim in line with the policy. 
In this case the third party made a claim against Mrs Ns policy. So liability was in dispute 
from the outset. Mrs Ns claim was settled as a total loss as it wasnt economical to repair 
her car. The third partys claim included a claim for personal injury. Cases where liability is 
disputed inevitably take longer to settle. I think Admiral failed to move the claim forward in a 
timely manner. But I can also see that it forwarded a statement from an independent witness 
in support of Mrs Ns account to dispute liability - and asked the third party representatives 
for a reply in March, June, July and August 2019. 
Admirals notes show that it contacted a shop owner and asked for a copy of their CCTV 
footage of the incident. It asked him to provide a disc copy  but he instead downloaded it 
onto a public online platform. Admiral viewed it from there. Admiral didnt think the footage 
was strong enough to show that the third party was responsible for the incident. But it asked 
the shop owner on several occasions to give permission for Admiral to take a copy. 
However, he didnt provide this and subsequently took down the footage. 
A claim is classed as a fault claim while its open. And if an insurer isnt able to recover all 
of its costs under the claim, it will ultimately settle it as a fault claim. This is the terminology 
used by insurers on a central database to recognise whether costs were recoverable or not 
under a claim. 
Unfortunately I think Mr and Mrs Ns premium would have been affected at renewal in any 
event  as I think is very unlikely that the claim wouldnt have been settled as a non fault 
claim by then  even if Admiral had acted sooner in progressing the claim. As Ive said, 
cases where liability is disputed can take much longer to settle. 
 
If Admiral were to close its claim as Mr N wants - rather than look to settle it on the best 
terms as its policy allows it to do - the outcome would certainly be to record the claim as a 
fault claim. This is because Admiral hadnt recovered its claim costs from the third party. I dont know if it will. Mr N said that he understands Admiral should have closed the claim 
within a limited period of time if the third party didnt reply. He referred to the term walkaway 
claims. I dont think this scenario applies in Mrs Ns case as she made a claim for her 
losses. So a claim has been made against her policy. So I think its reasonable for Admiral to 
keep the claim open and look to recover its costs while disputing liability with the third party. 
But I agree this shouldnt be indefinitely. 
I think its clear that Mr and Mrs N have had to regularly chase Admiral as it failed to be pro 
active in dealing with the claim. So I dont think Admiral acted reasonably and I can 
understand the frustration and upset caused. But overall I think the total compensation 
Admiral paid of £175 for its poor service is fair and in line with awards we give in cases 
similar to Mrs Ns. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman