DRN-2632961
The complaint
Mr V complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his taxi
insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr V had a typical private hire vehicle. In April 2019, he took out a taxi policy under which
Haven was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Haven, I include claims-
handlers and others for whose actions I hold Haven responsible.
The policy covered accidental damage. But there was an exclusion for damage caused by
driving through deep water.
In about December 2019, Mr V acquired a luxury saloon and put that on the policy.
In mid- January 2020, Mr V reported an incident the previous evening. During heavy rain and
heavy traffic, he followed other vehicles through a puddle on a narrow country lane. His
engine cut out briefly, but he got it re-started and drove home. But the next day his car had
an engine problem.
Mr V tried to make a claim to Haven. It said the policy didnt cover the damage. Mr V 
complained to Haven about that. Haven sent an engineer to inspect his vehicle. Mr V
first contacted us in late January 2020. Haven wrote a final response dated 9 February 2020
declining to meet the claim.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it fair for
Haven to apply the policy exclusion and not deal with the claim. He recommended that
Haven should:
1. deal with Mr Vs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
including excesses and limits;
2. pay £250.00 compensation;
3. consider financial losses Mr V mayve suffered as a result of not dealing with the 
claim. Mr V will need to forward supporting evidence of this for it to be considered 
by Haven.
my first provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint to
Mr V and to Haven on 15 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Section B of the policy covered damage to Mr Vs vehicle. But there was an exclusion
of the following:
Loss or damage caused by driving your taxi through deep water or over 
rough terrain.
Keeping in mind that exclusion, I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Haven to meet Mr Vs claim for repairs to his vehicle or to pay him compensation for 
not meeting his claim.
Subject to any further information from Mr V or from Haven, my first provisional decision was
that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Haven Insurance
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
my second provisional decision
After reconsidering all the evidence, I issued my second provisional decision on this 
complaint to Mr V and to Haven on 28 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
On reflection - I didnt consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Haven to
rely on the exclusion unless Mr V behaved unreasonably by driving through water 
that he knew to be too deep.
Looking at the incident as a whole, I didnt find that Mr V drove through water that he 
knew to be too deep.
Subject to any further information from Mr V or from Haven, my second provisional decision 
was to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to:
1. settle Mr Vs claim in line with the terms of the policy other than the exclusion of 
damage caused by driving through deep water; and
2. if this results in a cash settlement, add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8%, from 
the date he drove through the water to the date Haven makes payment. If Haven
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr V a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mr V £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Haven accepts the second provisional decision.
Mr V accepts the second provisional decision. He says, in summary that:
The cost to repair his car was £5,200.00.
His loss off earnings was £7,000.00.
From January 2019 to June 2019 he earned £14,393.78 before tax. From January 
2020 to June 2020 he had no earnings due to his vehicle requiring repair which the 
insurance company refused to handle
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must take into account the general law and the policy terms. But overall I must decide what
is fair and reasonable.
Section B of the policy covered damage to Mr Vs vehicle. But there was an exclusion of the
following:
Loss or damage caused by driving your taxi through deep water or over rough
terrain.
Theres no definition of deep water. Different vehicles will have different safe wading
depths. So I consider that, in this context, deep water means water that is too deep for the
vehicle in question.
In January 2020, Havens engineers report noted that Mr Vs vehicle had been registered in
2017 and had a recorded mileage of about 28,500. The engineers report included the
following:
The client advised he drove through a puddle that he advised was up to the lower
section of the headlamp area
Mr V disputes saying that.
Havens engineers report concluded as follows:
The engine does knock excessively and a cylinder compression check and further
investigation is required to ascertain the cause. At this time there is no 'evidence' to
suggest induction of water (hydro locking) and we are sceptical in regards to the
vehicle re-starting and then driving up to 50 miles home after the apparent event.
The vehicle will need to be further examined in mechanical workshop conditions with
an inspection hoist and some dismantling/diagnostics to take place
Haven later described its engineers report as poor. But I think it highlighted the need to
have a proper look at the vehicle in a workshop.
In June 2020 Mr V got a garage to remove and partially dismantle his cars engine. The
garage recorded that it was a V6 diesel engine. The details from the garage included the
following:
strip down found that cylinder bore of number 6 was scored and damagedThe
piston was damaged, and the conrod bent. The conrod being bent and the bore
being damaged is very consistent with water entering the engine and causing this
exact damage. Hence based on the facts presented to us (customer driving through
water and inspection from engine strip down), we can confirm that is its (sic) very
likely that the damage internally is consistent and likely to be caused by water
entering the engine. This damage cannot occur from normal or even hard driving and
an external part/substance entering the engine will cause this damage, and
especially causing the bending of the conrod...
In response to that, Havens engineer said the following:
The original [engineer] report could not find any ingress of water to the Air intake
and as I alluded too, If water damage I would expect more than one cylinder damage
onlyFrom that, I accept that it is surprising that only one of the six cylinders was damaged.
However, Haven hasnt put forward any cause other than water. So I prefer the evidence of
Mr Vs garage. I find it more likely than not that water had entered and damaged the engine
because Mr V had driven his vehicle through deep water, that is water that was too deep for
his vehicle.
However, - on reflection - I dont consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Haven to
rely on the exclusion unless Mr V behaved unreasonably by driving through water that he
knew to be too deep.
Mr Vs evidence is that the incident happened on a January evening. So I infer that it was
dark. He was on a road he didnt know (and hasnt yet identified). Theres no evidence of
weather warnings, road closures, police attendance or warning signs.
There were other vehicles and it wouldve been difficult to turn his car round. He followed
other vehicles that had gone through the water.
Looking at the incident as a whole, I dont find that Mr V drove through water that he knew to
be too deep.
So I dont consider that Haven treated Mr V fairly by applying the policy exclusion for driving
through deep water.
Putting things right
Ive thought about how Haven should try to put things right.
In response to the second provisional decision, Mr V sent us a copy of the garages repair 
invoice dated 13 July 2020. It is for a total of £5,194.65 including VAT. Mr V has also sent us 
a copy of a card payment slip showing payment of that amount on that day. 
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to settle Mr Vs claim in line with the terms of the 
policy other than the exclusion of damage caused by driving through deep water.
If this results in a cash settlement, Haven should add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% to
the amount it pays Mr V, from the date he drove through the water to the date Haven makes
payment.
In response to the second provisional decision, Mr V sent us copies of his bank statements 
for the periods January to June 2019 and January to June 2020 (with a gap between 4 and 
20 January 2020). But the 2019 statements show an unpredictable picture of amounts of 
money received. 
And the amounts of money received are without accounting for costs he incurred in earning 
those amounts. I find it likely that his costs increased after he changed his vehicle in 
December 2019.
In any event, the period from late March 2020 was during the unprecedented first lockdown. 
I find it likely that the lockdown wouldve adversely affected Mr Vs earnings if his taxi had 
been repaired. 
Ive seen that in late May 2020, Mr V received the first government grant for self-employed 
people adversely affected by the pandemic before mid-July 2020. In his case the grant was £2,156.00 which shouldve been calculated as 80% of his average for 3 months taxable 
profits in the previous three tax years.
Also, Mr V has put forward conflicting figures of about £7,000.00 and about £14,000.00. 
For all those reasons I find that Mr V has put forward unreliable figures for loss of earnings. I 
consider that he has fallen well short of showing that the delay in repairing his vehicle 
caused a measurable loss of profits from his self-employment. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Haven to pay him any compensation for loss of earnings.
I dont doubt that  by a decision Ive found unfair  Haven caused Mr V distress and
inconvenience. I find £250.00 fair and reasonable compensation for this.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to:
1. settle Mr Vs claim in line with the terms of the policy other than the exclusion of 
damage caused by driving through deep water; and
2. if this results in a cash settlement, add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8%, from 
the date he drove through the water to the date Haven makes payment. If Haven
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr V a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mr V £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman