DRN-1447522
 
The complaint
This complaint is about two single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in 1997 and 1999 in connection with unsecured personal loans. Mr and Mrs N 
say Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold the policies. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N say that NBS mis-sold them two PPI policies when they took out unsecured 
loans in 1997 and 1999.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said that he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
was satisfied that the policies were optional, and that Mr and Mrs N chose to buy them.
Mr and Mrs N disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Nationwide says that all its PPI sales were carried out on a non-advised basis, (irrespective 
of whether the sale was carried out on the telephone or face to face). It says that it provided 
information about the policies but did not provide advice or a recommendation to Mr and 
Mrs N; it sold the PPI policies on an information only basis. So, in the absence of any 
testimony from Mr and Mrs N on this subject, Ive determined this complaint on the basis that 
Nationwide did not provide advice.
This means that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policies were suitable for Mr and 
Mrs N, but it did have to provide clear information to enable them to make an informed 
choice about what they were buying. If adequate information was provided, it was Mr and 
Mrs Ns responsibility to assess whether or not the cover met their needs, taking into 
account any benefits or policies that they already had, before making the decision to 
purchase. If adequate information wasnt provided, I need to assess whether this information 
would have influenced Mr and Mrs Ns decision to take the policies.
1997 sale
Mr and Mrs N contacted Nationwide for a personal loan of £4,000. At the same time a PPI 
policy was purchased that provided cover for Mr N only. The policy provided accident and 
sickness cover for the full 60 months of the loan and also 12 months cover in the event of 
unemployment. It also provided life cover.
1999 saleIn 1999, Mr and Mrs N contacted Nationwide for a personal loan of £7,000. At the same time 
a PPI policy was purchased. The policy provided cover for Mr N only, and covered him for 
accident and sickness for the full 60 months of the loan and also provided 12 months cover 
in the event of unemployment. It also provided him with life cover.
Were the PPI policies optional?
Mr and Mrs N says that they were not made aware of the optional nature of either of the 
policies; they felt they had to take the PPI in order to be granted the loans. Nationwide says 
that the documentation from the time of the sale shows that the PPI policies were optional.
I dont know what Nationwides representative said during the discussions in 1997 and 1999. 
And in the absence of any recording of those discussions it is of course much harder to 
come to a clear view on exactly what was said during a conversation that took place more 
than 20 years ago. And while I have taken into account Mr and Mrs Ns recollections, I am 
also mindful of the fact the passage of time is likely to create difficulties in recalling exactly 
what happened all those years ago.
Ive considered this matter carefully, but based on the documentary evidence I have seen, 
Im not persuaded that the policies werent presented as being optional. 
The loan agreements detail the costs of the policies under a heading Optional Credit 
Insurance. The Loan Agreement Terms and Conditions state You understand that the 
credit insurance is Optional. And I understand that a personal loan welcome booklet would 
also have been issued to Mr and Mrs N following both sales and that it made reference to 
the optional nature of the insurance policies.
Ive noted that both loan agreements are pre-populated and Ive considered this carefully. 
But on the basis that the sales took place on the telephone, I think that the sales 
representative simply completed the paperwork on-screen before posting it to them to sign. 
And in both cases, they signed the loan agreements to indicate they had read the paperwork 
and wanted to take out the loan and the PPI.
So while I accept its possible they were told they had to have PPI, Im not persuaded there 
is sufficient weight of evidence for me to conclude that this was more likely. I consider it just 
as likely that the policies were presented as being optional and that they chose to take them 
out as they had some interest in protecting their loan payments.
Did Nationwide give clear, fair and not misleading information?
At the time of both sales, Mr N was employed, resident in the UK and in good health and 
was therefore eligible for the cover that the policies provided, and would not have been 
caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions of the cover such as those relating 
to health or unusual employment terms. 
Mr N says that he had the benefit of some occupational sick pay in the event that they were 
unable to meet their loan repayments. However, as a non-advised sale, it was incumbent on 
Nationwide only to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI policies; it 
was not required to take into account any existing cover arrangements or to comment on the 
policies suitability for Mr and Mrs N. The policies were optional, and the sales were on a 
non-advised basis; it was therefore Mr and Mrs Ns choice whether to purchase the policies 
and add to their existing arrangements.
Information was provided in both loan agreements about costs. Both loan agreements set 
out the separate cost of the loan and the PPI, what interest was applicable to each element and the monthly repayment that applied respectively. I am therefore satisfied the cost of 
each policy was made clear.
Ive noted that both policies provided a pro-rata rebate of the single premium amount upon 
cancellation. So Mr and Mrs N werent disadvantaged if they wanted to repay a loan early or 
cancel a PPI policy. Furthermore, the term of each policy (and the protection it offered) 
matched the term of the corresponding loan, so the policies were flexible to meet their 
changing needs and circumstances.
I accept it is possible that Mr and Mrs N may feel that their information needs may not have 
been properly met, but I am not persuaded that they were disadvantaged to the extent that 
they would most likely have acted differently and declined either policy had they been more 
fully informed about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman