DRN-1295923
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy her account was blocked and then closed by Barclays Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) and she had no access to her money.  
What happened
In July 2019, a block was placed on Miss As accounts. Following an investigation, Barclays 
made the decision to close her accounts. It sent her a letter dated 19 August 2019 to let her 
know. Within this, it referenced a specific section of its terms and conditions which said that 
it would be able to end its agreement with a customer if it had reasonable grounds to think 
the customer had been involved in one or more from a list of things which it deemed 
unacceptable. This list included providing false information, committing fraud and using the 
account for criminal activity. It didnt provide the specific reason but said this clause was the 
reason for the closure. As part of this closure, Barclays kept hold of Miss As funds. 
Barclays said that Miss A complained in October 2019 as she wanted access to the 
£2,782.38 that had been in the account. And she wanted the accounts to be re-opened. 
Following further investigation, Barclays decided to reopen the accounts. It said her funds 
would be accessible when the re-opening was complete. But as she didnt have an active 
card, it said that Miss A would need to go into branch or contact customer service to arrange 
this. 
Miss A seems to have had her funds returned to her on 21 November, which is some time 
after shed been promised them by. 
While the complaint was with us, Barclays made an offer of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It said, specifically, this was for the service received, the funds not 
being returned, the account being closed incorrectly and for Miss A not having an active 
card. It also offered to pay 8% on the funds in the account from when they were removed 
until they were returned.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She acknowledged that it wouldve been 
inconvenient, but she felt that Barclays offer was fair. But Miss A disagreed. She said that 
the situation had been inconvenient and embarrassing. She said she was lied to, phone calls 
were cut off, and she waited on hold for extended periods of time. She said this matter had 
caused her anxiety, depression, infections and skin conditions. She also said it had caused 
her financial problems and shes had to borrow money from family. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it may come as a disappointment to Miss A, I wont be asking Barclays to 
increase its offer of compensation  Ill explain why. I think its worth noting here that businesses have a right and a duty to protect themselves 
and their customers from fraud. So where they suspect fraud, theyll take action in line with 
their set processes and procedures. But, in this case, Barclays has admitted to closing Miss 
As account incorrectly. So I wont go into whether it was right to have closed the account 
and made Miss As funds inaccessible, as it accepts it made an error.
So I turn next to the effect of this error, and whether Miss A has been compensated fairly. 
Miss A has told us that shes lost out financially, but I havent been given enough evidence to 
show this. She told us that she borrowed money from her family, and I accept that this is 
likely to have caused her some embarrassment. But I cant safely say that she appears to 
have lost out financially from this situation. I note that, in an effort to put things right, 
Barclays offered to pay 8% simple interest  which is a compensatory interest rate - on the 
amount that was in the account from the time it was removed until it was returned. So, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that Barclays offer fairly compensates her for the 
time she was without her money.
Ive thought about the trouble and upset this situation has caused Miss A  as its clear that 
she found this matter distressing. I can see why it wouldve been particularly worrying to lose 
access to this amount of money, especially if its as a result of perceived wrongdoing with 
her account. And its for this reason that Barclays has offered her to compensate her. 
Miss A doesnt feel that £400 is enough to compensate her for whats happened. Shes told 
us about how the matter has impacted her health, as well as the time she had to spend 
dealing with it. This situation might have been a contributing factor to Miss As health 
conditions, but Ive not seen sufficient evidence to say that it was the cause. So I dont think 
it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible.   
I think £400 plus 8% simple interest on the balance of the account for the period it was 
unavailable is a fair resolution to this complaint. As Miss A couldnt provide further evidence 
to support what shed told us about the financial and health implications for her, Im satisfied 
this amount reflects the poor service she received and the distress and inconvenience she 
suffered. So I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I ask Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Miss A £400 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. I also ask it to pay 8% simple interest on the balance of the 
account from the date it became inaccessible to the date it was returned. This should be 
paid within 28 days of acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman