DRN-3846195
The complaint
Mr B complains Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company. For ease Ill refer to all submissions 
as if they were made directly by Mr B.
What happened
Mr B took out a guarantor loan with Everyday Lending in March 2018. The capital amount of 
the loan was £2,600. The term of the loan was 48 months, with repayments of effectively 
£111. 
Mr B complained to Everyday Lending about the loan, saying it had been irresponsibly lent. 
He brought his complaint to our service, and in the course of our investigation Everyday 
Lending agreed to uphold the complaint. 
In providing its response to upholding the complaint, Everyday Lending said that Mr Bs 
guarantor had made a substantial amount of the repayments. It said it had refunded these 
payments to Mr Bs guarantor. Everyday Lending said that it had also removed all interest 
and charges which had been applied to the account, and that it would treat all payments Mr 
B had made as reducing the capital amount he owed. Everyday Lending says after 
completing these calculations Mr B still owes it money. This is because Mr B had not yet 
repaid the total amount of capital he had borrowed (the initial £2,600).
Our investigator did not feel the redress which had been proposed was correct, as she did 
not think it was fair that Mr B have to pay more back than when he initially complained. 
Everyday Lending disagreed with our investigator and said it had acted fairly in its approach 
to redress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Everyday Lending should not have provided the loan to Mr B. So this 
decision focuses on whether Everyday Lending has acted fairly in relation to the redress it 
has proposed.
At this point I think it is worthwhile highlighting that the loan agreement between Everyday 
Lending and Mr B is still active. Everyday Lending has sent us a breakdown of the 
confirmation of payments made towards the account. It has also provided confirmation that it 
refunded Mr Bs guarantor the money they had paid.
Everyday Lending has proposed that it remove all interest and charges from Mr Bs account, 
treating any payments as payments being made towards the capital sum. It says as it has 
refunded the guarantor their payments (and those payments were significant); that it is fair 
and reasonable that Mr Bs balance be placed at the difference between the capital 
borrowed and the amount Mr B has paid to date. Everyday Lending says this leaves a 
balance of approximately £1,600 left to pay (this may have reduced at the time of writing).
Ive considered Everyday Lendings proposed redress, and in this instance, I disagree that it 
is fair and reasonable in this instance. Whilst I acknowledge that Mr B has not yet repaid the 
capital balance of the money borrowed, Im satisfied that in this instance increasing his 
balance to around £1,600 would be unfair.
Ive not been told that Everyday Lending received a complaint from the guarantor. And it 
seems to me that Everyday Lending decided that it should refund the payments to the 
guarantor as a result of Mr Bs successful complaint. It is unclear why Everyday Lending has 
chosen to refund these payments without a complaint, or unprompted request for them, from 
the guarantor. That said, Everyday Lending was and is entitled to refund these payments.
However, I dont think that this means Mr B should have to repay amounts that Everyday 
Lending has chosen to proactively refund in circumstances where hes made a successful 
complaint. After all, hes played no part in the payments being refunded and in the absence 
of a complaint or unprompted request for the payments from the guarantor, he reasonably 
relied upon his outstanding balance being what it was at the time he complained.   
I accept that the amount of interest and charges Mr B paid is substantially less than the 
amount of the payments the guarantor made. And therefore, the net effect is that Mr B hasnt 
paid any interest and charges as hes paid less than the amount that he was lent. But Im 
satisfied that this should result in Mr B not receiving any compensation even though his 
complaint had been upheld. It certainly doesnt mean that it is fair and reasonable for 
Everyday Lending to increase his balance, because it has taken a commercial decision to 
proactively refund payments that, on the face of things at least, it appears that the guarantor 
was happy to make on his behalf. As this is what Everyday Lending has proposed to do 
here, I dont think it is acting fairly and reasonably.
Putting things right
We would not expect a complaints position to be worse off having made a complaint  
especially one that has been upheld. That is the situation which Mr B finds himself, and Im 
satisfied that isnt reasonable. Everyday Lending has proactively refunded the guarantor, 
which it is entitled to do, but Im not persuaded in this instance that should automatically 
mean Mr Bs balance should increase.
Instead, Im satisfied the fair and reasonable thing to do would be for Mr Bs balance to 
remain at the point it wouldve been had Everyday Lending not proactively refunded the 
payments back to guarantor. If that remaining payment has since been made, then Im 
satisfied that the loan should be treated as settled and closed. 
As Mr B has not made any overpayments it would follow that he is not entitled to any refund 
in this instance. Everyday Lending has confirmed it will remove negative information in 
regard to this loan from Mr Bs credit file, which Im satisfied it should continue to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 Tom Whittington
Ombudsman