DRN-2978674
The complaint
 Miss M has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc charged her excessive amounts for her 
overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Miss M complained to Lloyds that the charges and interest applied to her overdraft had 
pushed her into financial difficulty and made her overdraft more difficult to repay. Lloyds 
didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss M was dissatisfied she referred the complaint to our 
service.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Miss M was experiencing financial difficulty by July 2015 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt agree  it felt that Miss Ms account received adequate income to service the overdraft 
and that there were no clear signs of financial difficulty  so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Miss Ms overdraft in July 2015. 
By this point, Miss M was hardcore borrowing. She hadnt seen or maintained a credit 
balance for some time. Lloydss own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen 
emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. I think that Miss Ms overdraft 
usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that she wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended and so it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
I acknowledge that Miss M did go on to clear her overdraft a few years later, but I dont think 
that has any bearing on the fact that Lloyds should have taken steps to deal with how 
Miss Ms account was being managed in 2015. Especially as Miss M would have paid 
significant amounts of interest, fees and charges for the privilege of being allowed to defer 
dealing with her debt. 
I also note what Lloyds has said about Miss Ms debit card spending. But looking at Miss Ms 
statements I think its clear that she had got into a cycle of spending up to near her limit and 
then increasing her overdraft limit to cover further spending. And regardless of what she was 
spending her money on, I think it should have been clear to Lloyds that the way Miss M was 
using her account was becoming unsustainable.
As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Ms overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds 
didnt treat Miss M fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Miss M
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in July 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ms 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman