DRN-4479392
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a credit card Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) provided 
to him. 
He says that hes been unemployed and dependent on state benefits for a number of years. 
So its clear inappropriate checks took place as he shouldnt have been given the card.
Background
Capital One provided Mr D with a credit card with an initial limit of £500 in May 2023. Mr D 
wasnt provided with any credit limit increases. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Capital One had told us. And he thought 
Capital One hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card. 
So he didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. Mr D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Capital One needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Capital One needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Mr D could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Capital One says it agreed to Mr Ds application after it obtained information on his income 
and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr D would be 
able to make the low monthly repayment due on this credit card. On the other hand Mr D 
says that he shouldnt have been lent to under any circumstances.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr D was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Capital One was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£500 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit 
of £500 required small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Ive seen records of the information Capital One obtained from Mr D about his income and 
his credit history that was on the credit search carried out. The credit search did show that 
Mr D had a defaulted account. But the account defaulted around four and a half years 
previously and had been settled for some time. 
So while I agree with Mr D that his defaulted account isnt irrelevant, its historic nature, in my 
view, meant that was less indicative of current financial difficulty or an outright inability to 
pay. And, in these circumstances, I think that this default was more something to be kept in 
mind by Capital One, which it appears to be have been here as Capital One only offered a 
low credit limit. Equally, Mr D didnt have much in the way of active debt at this stage.  
Mr D says that Capital One recorded that he had a salary of £35,000.00 a year and that 
there was no way that this is correct. I dont know what happened here. Its possible Mr D 
declared this salary, or its possible that there was some kind of error in terms of transferring 
the information that had already been gathered by the company Mr D used to search for a 
credit card. 
Either way, given the low amount being lent here and the neither the credit searches Capital 
One carried out or the credit file Mr D has provided showing over-indebtedness, I dont think 
that Capital One needed to further verify what was in the information it had before lending. 
I especially think that this is the case as given the amount being lent here Mr Ds actual 
income is unlikely to have changed the outcome here either. I also say this while mindful of 
the fact that it is unlikely to have been proportionate or fair and reasonable to have 
dismissed Mr Ds application out of hand simply because he was on benefits, without 
assessing whether what he was receiving was enough to repay what he owed.  
I accept that Mr D says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information Capital One obtained showed. Im sorry that to hear that Mr D has been unwell 
and that he has been unable to work because of this. That said, Capital One did not know 
about this. There wasnt anything in the application provided to indicate this. And, in any 
event, Capital One didnt have the authority or consent to obtain medical records on Mr D.
In my view, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that Capital One 
had, including Mr Ds existing indebtedness bearing in mind his declared income, which 
meant it shouldve asked Mr D to provide supporting evidence, such as bank statements, 
before providing him with a credit card in this instance. 
Finally, I have also seen what Mr D has said about Capital Ones phone calls. Im sorry to 
hear he considers these calls threatening. I can certainly why he might perceive any 
attempts at contact to be worrying given he says he is unable to repay the balance. 
However, while I can understand why Mr D might not want to speak to Capital One in this 
situation, it was trying to find out more about his situation and what steps - it could take to 
help him repay this balance  it needed to in line with its obligations. 
Mr D may prefer communication be made by other means and if this is the case, I would 
encourage him to not only make Capital One aware of this but also encourage him to co-operate with reasonable enquiries in order to reach a long-term solution in relation to the 
balance that is owed.
Overall and having considered everything, while I can understand Mr Ds sentiments and Im 
sorry to hear about his situation, I dont think that Capital One treated Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably. It carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on the information 
provided which suggested that the credit card was affordable. More recently it has also taken 
reasonable steps with a view to coming to arrangement in relation to the outstanding 
balance on the account. 
Consequently Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman