DRN-3299391
The complaint
Mr C complains about a repair carried out on roadside assistance cover he has, which is
underwritten by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV (LV).
Any reference I make to LV in this decision also includes its agents.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case. In summary, I thought the complaint should be 
upheld, because I didnt think the repair carried out by LV was sufficient, and I thought the 
damage Mr C says was caused to the liquified petroleum gas (LPG) system was more likely 
to have been as a result of poor repair work. Because of this, I initially thought that LV 
should reimburse Mr C the cost of replacing the LPG electronic control unit (ECU).
In short, the background to this complaint is that Mr C contacted LV for roadside assistance 
because there was fluid coming from his car. LV came out to repair the car, they didnt have 
the correct part in their van and so they used some copper domestic piping that had been 
provided by Mr C.
After the repair, Mr C noticed that the LPG system wasnt working, and so he contacted LV 
to let them know. He later took his car to the garage, who told him that the pipe was leaking, 
and there was still part of the old hose inside the pipe that had been fitted by LV. The garage 
confirmed that the LPG ECU had failed because it had water inside it. 
Mr C thought that the water ingress had come from poor repair work carried out by LV. 
However, LV think its more likely that the damage was caused by the initial leak.
After I issued my provisional decision, LV provided me with some additional information, 
including a copy of a call recording from when Mr C first reported what had happened. And it 
gave me some additional information about LPG systems. I also asked Mr C some additional 
questions about what happened at the time. 
Taking into account the new information, it was my intention to come to a different outcome 
to what I had done previously in my provisional decision. I sent both parties the below email, 
where I set out what I intended to say in my final decision. I have copied the email sent to 
both parties below:
Ive considered everything on this case again. Both parties have provided me with additional
evidence since I issued my provisional decision. Based on this, and after reviewing the file
again, I wanted to give both parties my informal thoughts on this case before I issue my 
decision on the matter.
This is a difficult case to decide. Both parties have provided much testimony about what they
think is most likely to have happened. But theres limited supporting evidence available from
either party for me to be certain. So, I need to make my decision on balance, as to what I 
think is most likely, taking into account everything Ive read and been told.
I think the natural starting point here is to think about the initial call out Mr C made to LV and 
the reason for this. Ive listened to the initial call out and Mr C has described the reason for 
the call as his car is flinging out fluid.
Im satisfied there was a leak which was the reason for the call out - this isnt in dispute by 
either party. What is in dispute though, is at what point the damage to the LPG ECU was 
caused.
When Mr C first called LV for help, he said that his car was losing fluid and it was coming
out like steam. He confirmed he had managed to limp the car home.
LV say that the damage to the LPG ECU was likely caused at this point. Thats because Mr
Cs wife continued to drive the car home, and while the car was being driven with the leak, 
its likely boiling water and steam would have been spraying all over the unit and caused 
water ingress into the ECU.
Mr C says that the LPG system was still working when the car was driven home, and it was 
only after the technician had been that the LPG system didnt work. But LV state that the 
LPG system would likely to have continued to work until the car was next switched off. So it 
would only be at the point the car was next used, that any damage to the LPG ECU would 
have become apparent.
Having thought very carefully about what Mr C told LV when he requested assistance, and 
what LV have said about the likelihood the car would still run on LPG even after the ECU 
had been damage, I am now of the opinion that its possible that damage to the ECU could 
have been caused by the initial leak to some degree. Mr C has said himself that the car was 
steaming, and there was water everywhere. So, it seems possible that at this point, some 
water is likely to have got into the ECU.
While I appreciate that LV might find that this point is clear cut, in that this initial leak must 
have been the cause of the damage to the ECU, I will now go on to explain why I think its 
possible that further damage could have been caused by the repairs.
Mr C has been quite clear about the fact that the LPG system didnt work after the
technician had been to fix the pipe in the car. Ive listened to the call he had with LV when he 
let them know about the problem with the LPG system, and he says that prior to the 
technician coming the LPG system was working and after he made the repairs, it wasnt 
working anymore.
LV are relying on the fact that Mr C said that the LPG system didnt work immediately after 
the technician had left, to say that the problem must have been caused by the initial leak. 
But I dont necessarily think this is the case.
Firstly, the technician who carried out the repair did so with some domestic piping that Mr C 
found in his shed, which I would question if this is the appropriate part for the repair. Mr C 
has said that he had concerns when the technician was trying to fit the pipe that it wouldnt fit 
properly given that both ends of the previous piping were different in diameter. While I 
accept that the repair was only supposed to be temporary, and that the technician was likely 
trying to be helpful by getting Mr Cs vehicle back on the road, given that the piping wasnt 
something that the technician had been provided with from his work equipment, I cant agree 
that the part they used was appropriate. And its probable that this was likely to leak at some 
point. There was the option of Mr Cs vehicle being towed to a garage, which might have 
been a sensible option if the technician didnt have the parts to carry out a satisfactory 
repair.Mr C has said that he didnt notice that there was a leak after the technician had left, and he 
doesnt mention this during the second call he had with LV either, but I dont think this
necessarily means that there wasnt a leak. Mr C says he noticed the fluid levels had
dropped after his wife had used the car, and so he topped them up, which would also 
indicate that there was perhaps a leak after the technician had been.
Mr C adds that he had no idea that the new pipe was leaking until the garage told him this, I 
think this is supported by the call Mr C made to LV where he initially thought the problem 
was something to do with the wiring. Unfortunately, Mr C isnt able to get any evidence from 
his garage in support of his case, I dont think it would be fair for me to draw anything 
negative from this, although it does make it more difficult to know for sure if the pipe was 
leaking or not when it went into the garage for the repair.
But the engineer at the garage did send Mr C photos of the pipe when it was repairing it.
The photos show that the pipe still had some of the old pipe inside, that hadnt been 
removed from when the technician carried out the repair. So this, along with the fact that a 
domestic copper pipe was fitted without being properly sealed suggests to me that its 
possible the pipe was still leaking after the technician had been  and so its likely it could 
have caused further damage to the LPG ECU board  or even all of it.
In response to LVs comments that the LPG system had failed immediately after the 
technician had been, Mr C has told this service on a number of occasions that his wife used 
the car to go to the shops after the technician had been. Hes said that the LPG system 
initiated and switched to LPG but stopped working after a short while. So it seems that the 
LPG system was still working to some degree after the technician had been, but just not 
enough to keep the car running on LPG. After this, when Mr C took the car to the LPG 
garage, he drove there on petrol as the LPG didnt work by this point.
Ive given a lot of thought to this case, and Im very aware of the strength of feeling both 
parties have about what they think happened. I think it would be difficult for either party to 
know what actually caused the LPG system to stop working with all certainty. And its difficult 
to know at what point the water got onto the ECU board.
Having considered everything I have on file very carefully, Im now minded agreeing with LV 
that the initial leak could have been the cause of damage to the LPG ECU. 
But I also think I have enough information here to say that the repair work carried out by the
technician wasnt sufficient. Mr C has been consistent in his testimony where hes said that 
the garage told him that there was a leak in the pipe fitted by the technician. While I dont 
have a testimony from the garage to support this, I have seen photos that the garage sent to 
Mr C to show the issues Ive already mentioned with the pipe. It would seem unlikely that the 
garage would send this to Mr C if there wasnt a problem at all. So its possible that the leak 
coming from the new pipe fitting could have been the cause of, or have caused further 
damage to the LPG ECU.
Im in a position now where I need to think about what losses Mr C has sustained, if any,
from the leak in the new pipe. I imagine LVs position on this will be that Mr C would have 
needed to replace the ECU board anyway after it potentially suffered water ingress following 
the initial leak. I have thought about this when coming to my decision. But I cant be certain 
when the water that damaged the board entered the ECU and Im also of the opinion that 
given the leak is likely to have still been present (albeit a new leak) after the technician left. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that the use of an inappropriate part is likely to have 
caused a further significant leak. And that the car should have been transported to a repairing garage in the first instance which would have ensured that the damage was 
minimised.
So, I think the fairest outcome in this case would be for LV to pay a proportion of the cost of 
the new LPG ECU, and labour back to Mr C. I think the fairest redress here would be for LV 
to pay Mr C 50% of the repair cost including 8% interest from when Mr C paid the garage to 
when LV repays it. To be clear, Im no longer asking LV to pay the full amount.
LV responded to say that it was still of the opinion that the fault was as a result of the initial 
leak, however it said it would reimburse Mr C with 50% of the cost of replacing the LPG to 
bring the matter to a close. 
Mr C responded too. I have summarised his main points below:
When Mr C reported the initial leak, there were no warning lights on the dashboard to 
show fluid loss and so the amount of fluid loss couldnt have been significant. 
The initial leak wasnt in the same area as the LPG ECU, and so the initial leak 
couldnt have caused the damage.
The LPG system worked after the technician had been  it switched over to LPG 
normally, but then after a short time it started playing up.
LV have no evidence, testimony or logic that would support its view that the damage 
was caused by the initial leak. 
Because both parties have now responded, Im in a position to issue my decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to partially uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. However, I will be deciding that LV should put things right for Mr C by reimbursing 
him 50% of the cost and labour to replace and fit the damaged LPG ECU board. And LV 
should pay Mr C 8% simple interest from the date he paid the invoice until it pays him the 
money.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C. Id like to thank him for taking the 
time to provide a detailed response to my most recent email. I have only very briefly 
summarised of the points hes made, but Id like to reassure him that I have read everything 
he has sent and taken this into account when coming to my decision on the matter.
I can completely appreciate Mr Cs point of view here. I know hes adamant that the damage 
to the ECU board was caused by the poor repair, and I also agree this is possible. I am 
persuaded by Mr Cs comments that the repair carried out was poor, and Im also persuaded 
that the poor repair resulted in a leak. 
But I also need to consider the fact that the reason for the initial call out was because of a 
leak. Ive taken on board Mr Cs comments in that the warning light didnt come on, so the 
car likely wasnt losing much fluid and that the water was spraying in a different direction the 
where the LPG ECU board is. But I dont think this is enough for me to be persuaded that 
there was no water that could have got into the ECU board. Mr C has also confirmed that there was steam coming out the car, so its possible this could have also got into the ECU 
and caused damage.
While Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr C has said, it doesnt change my view 
that its possible damage could have been caused by the initial leak. However, I do accept 
that its likely that there was a further leak after the technician had carried out repairs, which 
could have also caused damage to the ECU board.
I dont think it would be fair for me to agree that LV dont have any evidence in this case. 
They have evidence of the initial leak and call recordings from Mr C that have helped me 
understand what happened in this case. In this case, the evidence is very limited in support 
of what either party have said. 
Im still of the opinion that its possible the initial leak caused some damage to the ECU 
board. However, Im also satisfied that the repair carried out wasnt sufficient. 
Putting things right
To put things right, LV need to:
Reimburse Mr C 50% of the cost of replacing the LPG ECU board and having this 
fitted.
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Mr C paid the invoice, until 
it reimburses him. *
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires LV to take off tax from this interest. LV must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. I order Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  trading as LV to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman