DRN-3982461
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain they were mis-sold finance with Elderbridge Limited relating to a 
timeshare they bought, and the timeshare product was misrepresented at the time of the 
sale.
Mr B and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2005, Mrs B and Mr B bought a timeshare interest from a timeshare 
provider (L). The purchase was financed through a 15-year fixed sum loan, which was 
arranged by a third party (C) and legally assigned to Elderbridge in July 2016. 
In January 2020, Mrs B and Mr B complained to Elderbridge following enquiries made with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They said, it would appear that [C] were not 
permitted or authorised to arrange loans as prohibited by section 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and that section 26 of the FSMA makes 
allowance for recovery of monies paid under a prohibited agreement. Mrs B and Mr B said 
the arrangement had caused them significant losses.
Elderbridge issued a final response and explained that, as the loan was taken in 2005, Mrs B 
and Mr Bs complaint fell outside of the time limits in DISP 2.8 of the complaints handling 
rules (FCA Handbook  Disputes Resolution, Complaints DISP).
The CMC referred Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint to this service. In doing so, the CMC raised 
the following additional complaint points:
The timeshare interest was misrepresented to Mrs B and Mr B; and
an unfair relationship existed under Section 140a of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA); and
theres no evidence that a credit check or affordability assessment was completed 
before granting the loan
One of our investigators thought that Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint was one that could be 
considered by this service. 
But Elderbridge didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, as an informal resolution 
couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 25/01/2023  giving Mrs B, Mr B and Elderbridge the opportunity to 
respond to my findings before I reached a final decision. 
In my provisional decision, I said that this service wasnt able to consider the expanded 
complaint presented to this service by the CMC on Mrs B and Mr Bs behalf. However, my 
provisional decision also included the following:
Mrs B and Mr B suggest that the loan granted to them in 2005 was introduced by an 
unauthorised entity (C). And because of that, they believe the loan agreement was 
unenforceable.
As Elderbridge have already pointed out, the rules that apply to what this service is 
able to consider are set out in DISP. These include the time limits that apply to this 
part of this complaint. The rules say we can't look at a complaint if it was made more 
than:
Six years after the event complained of; or if later
Three years from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of cause for complaint.
The loan was originally agreed in 2005. So, this is more than six years before the 
complaint was first put to Elderbridge. However, from what Ive seen so far, Mrs B 
and Mr B first became aware of this potential issue when they sought advice and 
contacted the FCA in early 2020. It was at this point they first believed C may not 
have been authorised to introduce business to Lender F. 
So, while the credit agreement in question was entered into more than six years 
before Mrs B and Mr B first complained to Elderbridge about the status of the credit 
broker, Im not persuaded that they had cause to complain (or ought reasonably to 
have realised that they had cause to complain) about this issue until early 2020. And 
as that was less than three years before this complaint was first made to Elderbridge, 
and as the loan remained active until relatively recently1, I think their complaint about 
the status of the credit broker is one that this service can consider. 
Is the loan agreement unenforceable?
Mrs B and Mr B believe C werent authorised to arrange loans contrary to the general 
prohibition in section 19 of FSMA. When the loan was set up, consumer credit 
broking didnt require FCA authorisation. It did however require a license issued by 
the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). 
Our own records show that C was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction 
from 6 April 2007 until 31 March 2014  which it wouldnt have been had it not been 
granted a consumer credit licence by the OFT. And I dont think its unreasonable to 
suggest at this stage that, in the absence of any persuasive evidence to suggest 
otherwise, C was likely to have held the requisite licence before 6 April 2007 when 
the loan in question was first agreed  such that Mrs B and Mr Bs credit agreement 
was likely to be enforceable. 
I think this service does have jurisdiction to consider whether Mrs B and Mr Bs loan 
agreement was unenforceable given the status of the credit broker that arranged 
their loan. But for the reasons Ive given above, I dont intend uphold that complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Elderbridge nor the CMC have disagreed with my finding that this service is able to 
consider Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint in relation to the authorised status of C when 
introducing them to Lender F.
However, the CMC did make the point that Id only referred to the business who introduced 
Mrs B and Mr B as C. They said this meant they werent able to consider that aspect in 
detail. I want to reassure the CMC, Mrs B and Mr B that Ive taken care to clearly identify the 
business detailed in the documentation from the time of the sale. And Ive also checked the 
authorised status of that business against this services records relating to that time. 
1 Although the loan agreement dates back to 2005, it remained active until relatively recently as far as I can tell. And with that 
being the case, any complaint about its enforceability is one the service can now consider.   The CMC suggest that the name appearing on the documentation was not an entity, but a 
brand name. While I acknowledge this point, this services records show that C was a stated 
trading name of the authorised entity  Ill call them C2, and as such was authorised 
appropriately. And I dont think the stated trading name made it manifestly impossible to 
associate them with the authorised entity C2 here. 
To ensure C or C2 cant be identified in the published version of this decision, Im unable 
specifically name them in full. Thats because they arent the named respondent(s) to Mrs B 
and Mr Bs complaint. But I will provide specific details to the CMC separately, as requested.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything new or persuasive that leads me to vary from my 
provisional decision. And for that reason, I will not be upholding Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman