DRN-2480721
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has 
maintained his boiler during the time his HomeCare agreement was in place. Hes said that 
British Gas failure to properly care for and maintain the boiler during that period led to its 
total and sudden condemnation in October 2018.
What happened
Mr G purchased a flat in 2011 and took out a British Gas HomeCare agreement which 
included a yearly service by a British Gas engineer, a gas safety certificate to cover his 
obligations to the tenant, and an agreement by British Gas that any repairs to the boiler and 
all other parts of the central heating system would be carried out at no cost. 
British Gas completed the last boiler annual service on 4 October 2018. During that service, 
the engineer capped the boiler and declared it beyond economic repair due to flue corrosion 
and a rivet missing within the appliance. British Gas wrote to Mr G to explain that theyd 
cancelled his HomeCare policy after an engineer had concluded that the central heating 
system didnt meet current industry standards.
Mr G employed a third party to replace the boiler who concluded the faults could have been 
avoided with better care. 
On 5 October 2018, Mr G complained to British Gas. He said he was unhappy that the 
engineer had condemned the boiler during the service visit. He also believed the 
replacement of the boiler should have been covered by the HomeCare policy due to the age 
of the boiler. 
British Gas sent a final response to Mr G on 24 October 2018 to say the engineer correctly 
identified an unsafe boiler and capped the gas for safety. They also explained that the 
HomeCare policy didnt include provision for a replacement boiler because the boiler was 
more than seven years old when deemed beyond economic repair.
On 18 May 2019 Mr G again wrote to British Gas to complain about their failure to properly 
maintain the boiler at his property. He said the boiler had been serviced and inspected and 
certified as safe by British Gas every year since 2011. Mr G added that hed obtained a 
professional opinion that the boilers failure was directly attributable to neglect and 
inadequate servicing over a period of years. 
British Gas issued their final response on the complaint on 23 May 2019. They reiterated 
that the boiler was beyond economic repair and under their terms and as the boiler was 
more than seven years old they couldnt replace it under the policy. They said the engineer 
took the correct steps to ensure safety at the property. They also explained that the boiler 
annual service each year is a safety check and doesnt guarantee that a fault wont develop, 
and through use and wear, faults can occur. As the boiler was replaced soon after the last 
visit, British Gas said they were unable to take any further action or investigate third party 
claims that the fault occurred due to poor care. They accepted the flue corrosion could have 
been corrected under the policy. But they said the rivet missing meant that there was a hole 
in the combustion chamber which created a very unsafe situation. As that part couldnt be 
sourced or repaired the boiler was capped. 
Mr G brought his complaint to this service on 6 June 2019. British Gas objected to our 
service considering the complaint on the basis that Mr G had made the same complaint 
twice and hadnt brought the complaint to our service within six months of their October 2018 
final response letter.
Our investigator considered British Gas comments and concluded that we couldnt help with 
the complaint regarding the engineers visit in October 2018. However, she concluded we 
could help with the complaint about inadequate servicing and maintenance leading to the 
boiler being declared beyond economic repair. In the same view, our investigator proceeded 
to consider that complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she concluded that 
the evidence provided by British Gas demonstrated the necessary checks were carried out 
each year, and there was no evidence to support Mr Gs suggestion that the failure of the 
boiler was due to actions on the part of British Gas. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and made a number of submissions in relation 
both of his complaints. In particular he said that any contention by British Gas that spare 
parts werent available to carry out the repair was fundamentally flawed. He said that by 
shutting down the boiler rather than carrying out a repair under the HomeCare agreement 
British Gas were in breach of contract. 
Mr G also re-stated his view that the yearly British Gas inspection services were inefficiently 
carried out at the property and that the failure of the boiler was due to the incompetent 
servicing. He added that initial indications of flue corrosion should have been noted on 
earlier yearly inspections. He also expressed the view that if a valve was missing then only 
British Gas could be responsible as only British Gas inspected the boiler on all occasions 
over a period of years. 
Mr G requested an ombudsmans decision on both of his complaints. 
On 10 December 2020 I issued my decision on whether I had the power to look into Mr Gs 
complaints. I concluded that I didnt have any power to help with the first part of his 
complaint regarding the engineers visit in October 2018. However, I confirmed that I did 
have the power to consider the second part of Mr Gs complaint regarding the annual 
servicing and maintenance of the boiler, which British Gas addressed in their final response 
letter of 23 May 2019.
As our investigator gave her view on the merits of this part of the complaint, in June 2020, 
Ive now proceeded to make my decision on the merits of Mr Gs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator on the merits of the 
complaint. I will explain why.
Ive carefully considered Mr Gs complaint that his boiler was declared beyond economic 
repair because it hadnt been properly maintained by British Gas during the preceding years. 
On the one hand, Mr G believes that initial indications of flue corrosion should have been 
noted on earlier yearly inspections. He also expressed the view that if a valve was missing then only British Gas could be responsible as only British Gas inspected the boiler on all 
occasions over a period of years. He added that in light of the present and continued 
efficient functioning of identical boilers in the other 27 flats in the complex, it isnt 
unreasonable to conclude that the yearly services carried out at the property were of dubious 
quality and contributed to the failure of the boiler.
Mr G also told us that hed obtained a professional opinion on the failure of the boiler and 
was informed its failure was directly attributable to neglect and inadequate servicing over a 
period of years. It was later clarified that the report was carried out informally and verbally, at 
no cost, by a friend of Mr Gs, so a copy of it couldnt be provided to our service. 
On the other hand, British Gas have said the boiler annual service each year is a safety 
check and doesnt guarantee that a fault wont develop, and through use and wear, faults 
can occur. They accepted the flue corrosion could have been corrected under the policy but 
said the rivet missing meant that there was a hole in the combustion chamber which created 
a very unsafe situation. As that part couldnt be sourced or repaired the boiler was capped
British Gas have also provided job sheets which show that the boiler was serviced in each 
year during the eight-year period of cover, and which detail the work that was carried out to 
the boiler during the service. Aside from the October 2018 records, the job sheets dont 
include any other reference to rust on the flue or a missing rivet. 
Where the evidence is unclear, incomplete or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I decide what I think, more likely than 
not, happened. 
I accept that one possible reason the boiler suffered damage, may have been due to 
inadequate servicing by British Gas engineers during the years that Mr Gs HomeCare policy 
was in place. However, I havent been persuaded by Mr Gs evidence, that the servicing was 
inadequate. Also, there are a number of other equally possible explanations, such as those 
put forward by British Gas about the boiler developing a fault. Having carefully considered 
the available evidence, Im not persuaded that the failure of the boiler was more likely than 
not due to any act or omission on the part of British Gas. So, my decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in this decision, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award 
against British Gas Insurance Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman