DRN-2822529
The complaint
Miss T complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory
quality. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss T and to Oodle Car Finance on 13 
May 2021. In my provisional decision I described what has happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Miss T in March 2020 under a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle Car Finance that she electronically signed. She returned the car to the 
dealer in May 2020 because of some issues with the car and it replaced the rear 
wiper motor, front brake discs (which were lipped) and a tyre under a warranty. She 
returned the car to the dealer again in September 2020 and it cleaned up an alloy 
wheel rim which was corroded, replaced a tyre and resurfaced the brake pads, all 
under warranty. She returned the car to the dealer again in October 2020 and a 
leaking fuel pump was replaced under warranty and the brakes were checked but no 
fault was found.
Miss T complained to Oodle Car Finance in September 2020 about the issues with 
the car and she arranged an inspection of the car in October 2020 (for which she 
paid £195) which she provided to Oodle Car Finance. Oodle Car Finance said that 
the issues with the brakes and windscreen wiper motor about which shed 
complained wouldnt have been present or developing from the point of finance 
inception.
Miss T wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. The car was 
returned to the dealer again in December 2020 because of issues with the brakes but 
they were found to be in a serviceable condition, although it said that there was a 
very slight lip on the rear brake discs.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss T. 
She said that the car had been seen for issues with its brakes on more than three 
occasions. She recommended that Miss T should be able to reject the car and that 
Oodle Car Finance should: arrange collection of the car; end the agreement; refund 
any deposit (with interest); pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused and refund 
£195 for the independent report and £90.60 for a tyre replacement (with interest).
Oodle Car Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It has responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and has provided 
further information from the dealer. It says, in summary, that:
Miss T had the car for over six months when she logged a complaint and its 
case handler advised her she would need to obtain an independent 
engineers report - which she did but the report found nothing but age-related 
wear and tear;
the repair that was completed to the brakes in May 2020 was to the front - not 
the rear that had a fault in December 2020, many months after both the car 
being supplied to her and the May 2020 repair to the front brakes;
its highly likely that the fault with the rear brakes has developed since and, 
would not have even been present in, May 2020;
the car passed an MOT test in February 2020 and no major faults or 
advisories were listed; and
Miss T hasnt been able to evidence that the issues were present at the point 
of supply  and they are due to wear and tear.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss T. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also 
depend on a number of factors.
The car that was supplied to Miss T was about eight years old, had been driven for 
about 68,500 miles and had a price of £6,290. The car had passed an MOT test in 
February 2020, before it was supplied to Miss T, with no advisories. The car was 
returned to the dealer in May 2020 and it replaced the rear wiper motor, front brake 
discs (which were lipped) and a tyre under the warranty. The job card says that Miss 
Ts concerns about the car juddering when braking were investigated and:  traced 
fault to discs being lipped. New required. Replaced front discs and tested OK.
The car was returned to the dealer again in September 2020 and it cleaned up an 
alloy wheel rim which was corroded, replaced a tyre and refaced the brake pads, all 
under warranty. The job card says: Refaced brake pads for customer reported brake 
noise. Confirmed noise on cold start up, suspect normal operation.
The car was returned to the dealer again in October 2020 and a leaking fuel pump 
was replaced under warranty and the brakes were checked but no fault was found. 
The job card says: Customer reports when braking there is a clicking noise and the 
brakes dont work and feels like its not going to stop. Inspected braking system. 
Tested ok. Carried out a road test. Tested ok. Unable to fault.
Miss T paid £195 for an inspection of the car by an independent expert later that 
month. The inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 73,145. The inspection 
report concluded: There was no evidence presented at the time of the inspection to 
suggest that the symptoms are anything other than the direct result of age-related, 
progressive, general wear & tear and for this reason we would not believe the 
symptoms would prevent the vehicle from being fit for purpose now and at the point 
of sale.
The report was amended to take account of some further information provided by 
Miss T but the conclusion set out above wasnt changed and I consider that its 
appropriate for me to use the report as evidence about Miss Ts complaint.
The car was returned to the dealer again in December 2020 because of issues with 
the brakes but they were found to be in a serviceable condition, although there was a 
very slight lip on the rear brake discs. The job card says: Front brakes visually in serviceable condition  rear brake discs visually in serviceable condition  very 
slight lip on discs  roadtested vehicle and found slight brake squeal especially 
when reversing and braking, unable to fault spongy pedal when tested.
The car passed an MOT test in March 2021 when its mileage was recorded as 
74,437 with an advisory that: Offside Front Brake disc worn, pitted or  scored, but 
not seriously weakened. That disc had been replaced in May 2020. 
Its clear that Miss T has had issues with the cars brakes, as well as some other 
issues with the car. But the car was about eight years old and had been driven for 
about 68,500 miles when it was supplied to her so I dont consider it to be 
unreasonable that there were some issues with the car  and any issues that have 
been identified have been dealt with under the cars warranty.
The cars front brake discs were replaced in May 2020 because they were lipped, the 
brake pads were refaced in September 2020 and a very slight lip was found on the 
rear brake pads in December 2020. The car was inspected by an independent expert 
in October 2020 and the inspection report concluded that the issues were wear and 
tear and didnt prevent the vehicle from being fit for purpose now and at the point of 
sale. The car passed an MOT test in March 2021, but an advisory was made about 
damage to the front discs.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss T and I consider it to be more likely 
than not that the issues that shes experienced are the result of wear and tear on a 
car of this age and mileage. I dont consider that the damage to the front disc that 
was noted as an advisory at the March 2021 MOT test is enough to show that theres 
a fault with the car that caused it not to have been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss T.
I sympathise with Miss T for the issues that shes had with the car and the concerns 
that she has about the cars braking, but I consider that the dealer and Oodle Car 
Finance have responded to her complaint fairly and reasonably.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Oodle Car Finance to allow Miss T to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to the car, 
to reimburse her for any of the costs that shes incurred, to pay her any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
So, subject to any further representations by Miss T or Oodle Car Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Miss T has responded to my 
provisional decision in detail and has again described the issues that shes had with the car. 
She says, in summary, that:
the February 2020 MOT test was done by the dealer;
she had to pay for a new tyre but had to take the car back to the dealer because the 
tyre was flat for a second time and it told her that the car was too dangerous to drive 
due to a corroded alloy wheel;
corrosion happens over a period of time and the wheel would have been corroding 
the first time the tyre was changed;
she got an inspector to look at the car who changed his conclusion and the brakes 
shouldnt have needed replacing because shed not long had them done;
the car smelled of petrol when she first got it which she mentioned and which later turned out to be a fuel leak;
the front discs are constantly grinding and when she goes around a corner the pads 
are scraping along the discs and she shouldnt have to keep going back to the dealer 
for brake issues;
there shouldnt be an advisory on the brake discs that have only been replaced 6,000 
miles ago;
the dealer told her that it was willing to change the cars front and rear brake discs, 
pads and fluid for manufacturer supplied parts at its cost and it wouldnt do that if 
there was nothing wrong with the brakes;
the car is now out of warranty so she has to pay for the front brakes to be replaced 
when there is clearly an underlying issue; and
if she cant reject the car then Oodle Car Finance should be required to replace the 
brake discs because there is something wrong with them and they scrape so much 
and they make horrible noises or shed like to take the car back and refinance a new 
car through Oodle Car Finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Miss T has 
described in detail the issues that shes had with the car. I sympathise with her for those 
issues, but I dont consider that the documentary evidence that is available supports her 
claim that theres an underlying issue with the cars brakes that caused it not to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
That documentary evidence includes MOT tests that the car passed in February 2020 and 
March 2021 showing that it was roadworthy at those times, the dealers job cards from May, 
September, October and December 2020 and the independent experts report  which was 
arranged and paid for by Miss T and which concluded that the issues were wear and tear 
and didnt prevent the vehicle from being fit for purpose now and at the point of sale.
Miss T was able to drive the car for 6,000 miles between March 2020, when it was supplied 
to her, and March 2021, when it passed an MOT test. She clearly feels very strongly that she 
should be able to reject the car or that Oodle Car Finance should be required to pay for the 
brake discs to be replaced (or failing that she should be able to take the car back and 
refinance a new car with Oodle Car Finance). But Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the issues that shes experienced are the result of 
wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage.
For the reasons that I set out in my provisional decision, I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Oodle Car Finance to allow Miss T to 
reject the car, to pay for any repairs to the car, to reimburse her for any of the costs that 
shes incurred, to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action in response to 
her complaint.
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman