DRN-2556026
The complaint
Ms V says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that she was in a debt spiral when took the loans. She thinks that Mutual should 
have seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected loans Mutual provided to Ms V between October 
2015 and September 2019. Ive included some of the information I have been provided 
about the lending in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 12/07/2014 £500.00 51 28/10/2015
2 15/11/2014 £1,000.00 102 30/11/2016
3 05/09/2015 £1,000.00 102 28/08/2019
4 24/10/2015 £1,000.00 102 28/08/2019
5 14/05/2016 £1,000.00 102 28/08/2019
6 10/12/2016 £900.00 102 28/09/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Mutual was wrong to 
have approved loans 1 and 2. But she thought that it shouldnt have approved loans 3 and 
4 as Ms V was paying too high a proportion of her income towards these loans. And she 
thought that the lending pattern itself was harmful for loans 5 and 6. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said 
and a brief summary is below:
the loans are not high interest or expensive and the repayments are small each week 
so they should be considered differently from other lenders or high cost short term 
credit
the adjudicator didnt properly consider the consumers circumstances or consider 
what proportionate checks were needed. The checks Mutual did were proportionate 
for each loan and the loans were affordable, it individually determined the reasons for 
the lending each time and it gathered more information as the lending relationship 
went on
Mutual would like directing to the specific rule or regulation that shows where a large 
proportion of income is defined
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is not necessarily harmful to 
consumers. The industry regulator has confirmed this
its not appropriate to use an arbitrary loan number to uphold the complaint at. And 
there are no industry regulations that say lending is unsustainable because of the 
number of loans, the length of the lending relationship, the amounts lent, any lending 
trends and the time period between loans
a key indicator of when a loan is affordable is whether past loans have been repaid in 
a reasonable way. Mutual used a low and grow approach to make sure this 
happened
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusions that the 
length of time over which the consumer borrowed makes the loans unsustainable, 
there is no rule which says a consumer cannot take loans of two years
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per 
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower amount of 
loans than this, so the lending was likely to be sustainable
as these are longer term products, with a term of around two years, it isnt 
reasonable to say that it should have stopped lending not long after this time
there would be no reason to continue to borrow to make the repayments to the loan, 
they can use the flexibility of the product so this pressure wouldnt exist.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to 
go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms V could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms V. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, 
as does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit 
within its identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, 
for example, a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for 
a consumer. And, as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a 
consumer. The FCA has not said anything to the contrary on this point. I have 
considered these issues alongside everything else in making my decision.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Vs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms V accepted our adjudicators findings about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  and, for the avoidance of 
doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about 
this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms V had with Mutual. So, 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
By loan 3 Ms V had taken three loans, but she hadnt been able to fully repay loans 1 and 2. 
So Ms V had taken £2,500 of high cost credit in just over a year. And her weekly repayments 
had increased from around £14 a week at loan 1, to around £44 a week. 
For this loan Ms Vs income was recorded as being just under £300 a week. A large 
proportion of this was benefit income. Her expenditure was recorded as being £130 a week. 
Although I think its reasonable to say that the information Mutual took down about this 
wasnt very detailed. 
So Miss Vs circumstances were modest. She clearly had dependents, due to the benefits 
she was in receipt of, and this could mean her expenditure was variable. There is some 
evidence from other applications that she was a single parent. 
The repayments to Mutual represented around 15% of her total income but around a third of 
her disposable income. And these were long term arrangements. Given what I know about 
her circumstances I think this was too much. I dont think repaying this amount over the 
commitment terms was sustainable. And I think the situation is the same for loan 4. 
Mutual has asked that I point it to the FCA rule or guidance that says what percentage of 
income is not sustainable. As Im sure Mutual is aware the regulations and guidance are not 
prescriptive in this way. But Mutual does have to ensure the loan repayments are 
sustainable and I dont think loans 3 and 4 were for this reason. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 6 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so.But I will comment that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it 
made concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there is very little 
evidence to show these processes were followed here. There is application data for some 
of these loans, but there isnt a great deal of detail in them. And, its reasonable to say that 
Mutual didnt adhere to its policy, if it has one, of a low and grow approach. There was a 
very sharp increase in the total amount Ms V borrowed right at the start. So, Im not clear 
how outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, but didnt, are helpful 
here. Im not able to place any weight on descriptions of what ought to have happened.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending history with Ms V, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Vs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Mutual ought to have realised Ms V was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms V had been indebted to Mutual for just under two years. The 
loans were intended to run for around two years, so Mutual could perhaps have 
expected a longer period of indebtedness.  But Ms V had settled into a pattern of 
borrowing more than one loan a year. And at loan 5 Ms V was making a commitment 
to make repayments for a further two years
So, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness there is a picture of increasing 
or continuing indebtedness. Particularly as Ms V wasnt, in the main, repaying the 
loans she had before taking on more debt. This suggests that Ms V couldnt repay 
this lending without borrowing further and wouldnt be able to do so in the 
foreseeable future. This could be due to the effect the weekly repayments, over a 
sustained period, were having on her finances.
So Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Ms Vs 
indebtedness continued to be unsustainable at loan 5.
Ms Vs second loan was for £1,000 the same as loan 2, 3, 4 and 5. So, loan 5 was 
the latest in a line of loans for relatively high amounts. At this point Mutual ought to 
have known that Ms V was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her 
income, or to pay for discrete items, but to meet an ongoing need.
Right from the start Ms V was provided with a new loan when she hadnt repaid her 
existing loans, or within a short time of settling an earlier one. So, there wasnt an 
appreciable time when Ms V wasnt in debt to Mutual. 
I think that Ms V lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Vs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms V borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Vs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about 5 and 6 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It says, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on 
the same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with 
some different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent 
irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this 
judgement was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home 
collected credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with 
different considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products 
from those of short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges 
conclusions about a differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied 
here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of deciding whether a lending 
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need 
to be also looked at, as Ive done above.
So whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced 
any arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms V from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms V may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms V in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms V would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms V loans 3 to 6.A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms V towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms V 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms V originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should pay Ms V the total of A plus B.
D) Mutual should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Vs credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4. The overall pattern of Ms Vs borrowing for loans 5 and 6 means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so Mutual should remove these loans 
entirely from Ms Vs credit file. If Mutual has sold any of the loans Mutual should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Ms V a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Vs complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman