DRN-2544626
The complaint
Ms B complains that T.M. Sutton Limited (SR) disposed of two items of her jewellery which 
she had pledged as security against a fixed sum loan. She wants compensation. 
What happened
Ms B told us that in June 2018 she pawned several items of jewellery including a bangle and 
a chain and pendant. She says that she repaid the pledge in full in November 2018. But 
when she later came to seek the return of the items, she found that the two items identified 
above had been smelted. Ms B says she wants the items replaced on a like for like basis. 
Ms B says shes unable to value the chain and pendant as it was a gift. But she says the 
bangle was designed and obtained from a high-end jeweller Ill refer to as M. She states 
that she bought it around 2002/03 for about £3,100. Miss B states that she has provided an 
estimate from M showing that it will now cost about £8,400 to replace the bangle.
SR said that a misunderstanding had resulted in the two items being smelted. It said a total 
of £1,026.60 had been achieved when they were sold to the refinery. It said that if the items 
had been from a top end jeweller such as M they wouldnt have been identified as suitable 
for smelting. It offered a total of £1,695.91 including £669.31 which had been the proportion 
allocated for the two items upon the repayment of the pledge. And it confirmed that it would 
also return the three remaining items.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 January 2021. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint on the basis of the valuation assessed by our investigator. 
But that I was minded to reduce the level of compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
£300 from £500.
Since when both parties have replied. I thank them for their responses. SR said it had 
nothing to add. Ms B emphasised that the bangle was 18 carat gold and had been acquired 
from M. Ive not been provided with any additional material information so I shant be 
changing the view I expressed in my provisional decision which is largely repeated in my 
final decision set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to the complaint is well known to the parties. The basic facts of what 
happened to the items arent in dispute. The main difference between the parties is over the 
issue of compensation. So thats what Ill concentrate on.
Condition 2 (b) of the agreement limits the pawnbrokers liability  in the event of total loss - 
to the market value of the lost items at the time of the agreement. As the items werent new 
when pledged that would mean that any compensation ought to be assessed on a second 
hand replacement valuation not a bespoke design.
The main area of dispute is about the valuation of the bangle. Ms B states that she bought it 
from M in about 2002/03 for about £3,100. She states that it was 18 carat gold metal and 
hallmarked.
Shes unable to find the receipt but shes provided photographs of a presentation box and 
carrier from M. Ive no reason not to accept Ms Bs account that she bought the bangle 
herself from M. Shes also provided photographs of what she believes to be the nearest 
equivalent of the original item. And an estimate of how much this would now cost.
SR state that the item on the pawn agreement (YMWM) is identified only as Yellow Metal / 
White Metal (not gold). And that it wouldve been noted if it had been hallmarked as gold. It 
also said that it was unlikely that pieces from a high end jeweller such as M wouldve have 
been sent for smelting.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
At the time the loan agreement was incepted, SR staff inspected the item and described the 
bangle as Bi col Hinged Bangle YMWM. Ms B states the bangle was 18 carat gold. 
Other items on the agreement were described as:
Wm and White St Oranus Watch
Plat Solitaire Dia Ring
Plat Wedd Band
I would expect Ms B to have challenged the description on the agreement as YMWM if the 
item had been identifiable as gold.
But as our investigators valuation was based on the relevant mid-price for 18 carat gold  
and has been accepted by SR - I dont think I need determine this specific issue either way.
I also accept that the cost of jewellery isnt just based on the price of any metal or stone 
used. The name of the manufacturer or designer is also a potential factor. And in the case of 
second hand jewellery, the age of the particular item may also have a bearing on valuation.
Ms B has provided photographs of a presentation box and bag in the name of M. Ive no 
reason to doubt her assurance that these related to the bangle. And on a balance of 
probabilities I find that it was acquired from M.
Ive previously stated that I agreed with the approach adopted by our investigator which was 
to attempt to put Ms B back to as near the same position as if the mistake hadnt occurred. 
And that this would require compensation based on how much it would cost to purchase 
similar items second hand. 
Whilst I accept that Ms B purchased the bangle from M, she accepts that when new it cost 
£3,100 or thereabouts. Ive not seen anything that persuades me that its value would have 
appreciated to the extent suggested.
Id also query why - if the bangle was fairly valued at £8,000 or more - Ms B would have 
been satisfied to pledge it for a loan which raised only £1,255. A loan which was further 
secured by four other items of jewellery.I find that the valuation of £1,369.40 calculated by our investigator - and the basis on which it 
was reached - is a fair and reasonable amount for compensation.
Ive also to consider the amount of compensation that Ms B should be awarded for distress 
and inconvenience. Its very difficult - if not impossible - to put a price on sentimental value.
This often has no bearing on the actual valuation of an item. As by its very nature 
sentimental value is a very personal issue.
Having said that I also have to consider that by pawning the items Ms B did assume some 
risk that she might not recover them had she been unable to meet the pledge. I accept that 
she wouldnt have anticipated the actual circumstances of the loss.
In the overall context of the complaint I think that £300 is a more appropriate figure.
Putting things right
 T.M. Sutton should now take the following action:
1. Pay Ms B £1,369.40 as compensation for the loss of the two items;
2. Pay Ms B £669.31 being the amount of repayment of the pledge allocated to the 
two items;
3. Pay £300 compensation to Ms B for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the loss of the items.
Simple interest at the rate of 8 % per year should be added to items 1 and 2 above from date 
of repayment of loan to date of settlement. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. I now require 
T. M. Sutton Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman