DRN-3273012
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank made a payment from 
his account without his authorisation. 
What happened
In April 2021, Mr Os mobile phone provider took £14.30 out of his account without 
permission. They accepted this shouldnt have happened and theyve compensated Mr O for 
their mistake.
Mr O complained to Yorkshire Bank as hes unhappy it released the money. But Yorkshire 
Bank said it was contacted by the mobile phone provider with Mr Os card details. And as it 
was a regular payee on the account, it had no reason to reject the transaction. 
Mr O isnt happy with Yorkshire Banks response. He says he pays his mobile phone 
provider over the phone on the first of each month  and this payment was taken at the end 
of the month. He hasnt given them authority to store his card details and he has no direct 
debit or standing order set up with them. So he doesnt think Yorkshire Bank shouldve 
released the money without checking with him beforehand.
As his complaint wasnt accepted, Mr O brought it to our service. But our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She was satisfied Yorkshire Bank had acted appropriately and as the mobile 
phone provider had resolved things, she didnt think Yorkshire Bank needed to do anything 
more. Mr O didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Os account specify the ways that Yorkshire Bank will accept 
payment instructions. It says:
6.1 You can give us instructions in the following ways(e) using the card we give to 
you.
We will only follow instructions if we think they have come from you (or have been 
sent on your behalf). We will take steps to check this before we act on them. We will 
assume an instruction has come from you if we reasonably believe that the person 
who signed a written instruction or gave an instruction in person was you, or if your 
card was used.
Yorkshire Bank received a payment instruction from Mr Os mobile phone provider using his 
card details. In line with the terms and conditions above, Yorkshire Bank agreed to action 
this payment instruction on the basis that the card details provided were correct. It was also 
satisfied that this business was a regular payee on the account and the amount taken was in 
line with previous transactions. So it didnt think there was anything suspicious about the 
transaction which would flag it as being fraudulent or unauthorised. 
I appreciate it later came to light that Mr O hadnt given permission for this transaction. But I 
have to decide whether Yorkshire Bank acted correctly and fairly on the information it had at 
the time it received the payment instruction. And I dont think Yorkshire Bank has acted 
unreasonably here. From the information it had available, Im satisfied it was fair for it to 
conclude the payment was authorised and to release the money. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Os arguments in support of his complaint, I dont agree that it was 
reasonable for Yorkshire Bank to have known this payment instruction wasnt authorised. 
Payment instructions come in many forms, even if a direct debit or standing order isnt set 
up. Card details can be used to make purchases both over the phone and online. Yorkshire 
Bank cant reasonably contact every customer regarding every transaction thats made 
outside of an arranged payment agreement to ensure theyre genuine. It will only do so if 
something causes it concern, for example where there are large sums of money involved or 
where there is unusual account activity.
Instead, Yorkshire Bank has a specific process set up for its customers to dispute 
transactions on their account if they feel they were unauthorised or incorrect. And if this 
happens, Yorkshire Bank will investigate and either refund or recover the funds if 
appropriate. This process was available to Mr O, however as he managed to resolve the 
issue directly with his mobile phone provider it wasnt necessary for Yorkshire Bank to 
investigate. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Yorkshire Bank did anything wrong or unfair. And as 
the transaction is no longer in dispute  as Mr Os mobile phone provider has accepted 
responsibility for what went wrong and compensated him for it  there is nothing further for 
Yorkshire Bank to do to resolve this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman