DRN-4108796
The complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (Alphera) unfairly recorded missing payment markers on his credit file.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr B entered a hire purchase agreement with Alphera for a used car. He was 
to make monthly repayments of £199.27 and the agreement was due to end in March 2021.
Mr B fell into financial difficulties and his account fell into arrears. In January 2019 he 
decided to end his agreement and hand the car back. Alphera accepted Mr Bs request to 
terminate the agreement and the car was collected. Mr B was required to repay an 
outstanding shortfall to bring his payments up to 50% of the total amount payable under the 
agreement. The total shortfall was £3,161.58, this included the two months arrears prior to 
the agreement being terminated.
In April 2019 Mr B entered an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) with his creditors, 
which included Alpheras balance. 
In 2022 Mr B discovered that Alphera were recording missing payment markers on his credit 
file, despite him making payments towards the balance under his IVA. Mr B says that his 
other creditors receiving payments under the IVA have recorded his accounts as having 
defaulted from the date he entered the IVA. He believes that Alphera should also have 
recorded his account as defaulted from April 2019.
Alphera said it didnt record a default, because rather than defaulting on the agreement, Mr 
B had exercised the option under the agreement to voluntarily terminate. So, it thought it was 
a more accurate reflection to record missing payment markers.
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that in 
line with Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults (which Ill refer to as ICO principles), it was fair for Alphera to 
record any missing payments up until the IVA was entered into in April 2019 and then report 
the account as having defaulted from the IVA date. She also felt that Alphera had caused Mr 
B some frustration by passing him between departments to try to get an answer, she 
recommended it pay him £250 to reflect this.
In response Alphera said it couldnt mark Mr Bs account as having defaulted because he 
opted to end the agreement and hand back the car. It said the ICO principles only apply to 
active agreements, but Mr Bs agreement had ended. In addition, it said it had only received 
a total of eight payments from the IVA, in nearly three years, so it thought it was accurately 
recording missing/late payment markers. It asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
On 4 April 2023 I issued my provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Bs 
complaint. In summary I said that whilst I agree that the ICO principles dont specifically 
mention the scenario where an agreement has been voluntarily terminated before an IVA is 
entered. The guidance does refer to defaulting an account when a debt is owed and included 
in an IVA, which is what happened here. I also said it was clear from section 99(2) 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 that just because an agreement had ended, money accrued 
before the termination is still owed, and the creditor has a right to pursue the outstanding 
debt. 
In the circumstances, I thought the ICOs principles were relevant to this complaint. And its 
clear from the guidance that just because an agreement didnt actually default (as in being in 
arrears for three months or more), an account can still be recorded as defaulted, where there 
is an outstanding debt which is included in an IVA. The guidance also sets out that the 
default date should be the same date as the IVA date, which in this case was 9 April 2019.
In addition, Alphera had noted Mr B hadnt stuck to the payment arrangement under the IVA, 
and it had only received eight payments since April 2019, the statement it provided 
confirmed his payments were sporadic. I referred to ICO principle three which sets out that 
an account can also be defaulted, where a payment arrangement is broken, like it had here. 
Taking ICO principle three and four into account, I thought it was fair for Alphera to record 
any missing payments up until the IVA was entered into in April 2019 and then report the 
account as having defaulted from the IVA date. I also felt Alphera had caused Mr B some 
frustration by passing him between departments to try to sort this out, so I thought it should 
pay £250 compensation to reflect this. As Mr Bs IVA practitioners had confirmed their 
interest in any redress, I said Alphera should make the compensation payment directly to 
them. 
Both parties were given the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. And I 
explained to Alphera that Id consider any further comments or evidence it had in respect of 
its inability to mark the account as defaulted. Mr B confirmed receipt of my provisional 
decision, hes accepted my decision and had nothing further to add. Alphera didnt respond 
to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of further submissions or evidence I remain of the view expressed in my 
provisional decision and I uphold Mr Bs complaint, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I 
direct BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to;
pay Mr B £250 compensation (payment via cheque made payable to Payplan 
Bespoke Solutions) 
record missing payment markers from the date the agreement was voluntarily 
terminated on 14 January 2019 until 9 April 2019 
record Mr Bs account as having defaulted from 9 April 2019; the default will remain 
on his credit file for 6 years from this date.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman