DRN-1155332
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Os credit agreement had a section for additional services. There was a box that 
could be ticked if he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. The 
box was ticked and Mr O signed the agreement to confirm his choices. So I think that 
Halifax made it clear Mr O didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  
though I can understand why he might not remember doing so after so long.
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr O, so it had to check that the policy was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, it looks like Mr O was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limits. While Mr O had sick pay through work, it reduced 
to just a fraction of his normal pay after six months. Whereas the PPI covered him for 
up to 12 months in any one claim, and wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits. 
Mr O may have also had savings, though its not clear whether those wouldve 
covered his salary for very long. And the PPI helped Mr O to protect his savings, 
meaning he could use them for other things. Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful for Mr O.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to 
have changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr O chose to take out the policy, which 
implies he wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it would have been 
useful for Mr O if something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr O paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr O back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax has already paid this to 
Mr O.My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman