DRN-4109262
The complaint
Mr L complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) for failures in the service 
provided between November 2021 and November 2022. He wants British Gas to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset he and his family suffered. 
What happened
Mr L held boiler cover with British Gas. This renewed in November 2021 for a period of 12 
months. 
Mr Ls boiler suffered a breakdown in December 2021. The records show that British Gas 
attended Mr Ls home more than 12 times over the following 2 months. Repairs were carried 
out, and replacement parts were ordered and fitted but it took around 2 months for the 
repairs to be effective and for heating and hot water to be restored to the home. 
A fault later occurred in late February 2022 and was repaired after a shorter time, and then 
the boiler broke down again in November 2022. 
Mr L reports that whilst many engineers attended his home over this period, and most 
detailed that the boiler was safe, one of the engineers deemed it unsafe and added a 
warning label, directing Mr L not to use the boiler. The boiler was not operative through a 
substantial part of winter. 
Mr L complained to British Gas. British Gas sent a final response to the complaint in January 
2022. It accepted that there had been delays in respect of carrying out the repair in 
November 2022 and offered Mr L £150 compensation to reflect this. 
Mr L contacted us. He felt that the failing over the preceding year were not reflected in this 
offer and the service had been very poor. He was particularly concerned that the boiler had 
been deemed unsafe for a period during which he and his young family had been living at 
home. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. They noted that there had been a lot of visits and the repairs and work undertaken 
over this period were not sufficient, and Mr L had been left without heat during the coldest 
part of the year. The investigator recommended that British Gas pay a further £300 
compensation, and that it reimburse Mr L for repairs to a cupboard door which was damaged 
by the leaking boiler during this time. 
British Gas did not accept that view and requested more evidence from Mr L. 
Our investigator gathered that evidence and was satisfied that this supported Mr Ls account 
that the boiler had been deemed unsafe for a period, and that damage was caused to a 
cupboard. They then issued a second view recommending that British Gas increase its 
compensation to £400 (in addition to the £150 already paid) and that British Gas reimburse 
the costs of repairs to the cupboard door. 
British Gas accepted that view. Mr L does not accept that recommendation. He feels that it is 
not sufficient to reflect the risk that he and his family were exposed to, and the distress and 
inconvenience they suffered being without heat for long periods through winter 2021/22, and 
having to have multiple engineer attendances at their home. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ls view, and sympathise with the experience of him and his family. I 
appreciate how worrying it must have been to think that the boiler had been posing a risk to 
his family until it was repaired. 
I do, however, agree with the investigator that we arent able to direct compensation for 
things that might have happened, and we can only reflect what actually did happen. 
I have taken into account the serious distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr L and his 
family, and that members of the household have conditions which are exacerbated by cold. I 
have also considered the amount of time that this must have taken up for Mr L and his family 
in arranging engineer visits and being present for attempted repairs. 
Overall, I agree that the recommendation of my colleague is fair and is in line with other 
awards we would make in similar circumstances. I appreciate that Mr L thinks it insufficient, 
but I am satisfied that it is in line with our approach to compensation and is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
I understand that Mr L will remain disappointed, but I hope he feels that his matter has been 
fully considered, both by my colleagues thorough investigation of his concerns and my 
additional assessment. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, British Gas must pay to Mr L a further £400 compensation, 
bringing the total compensation to £550. British Gas must also, on receipt of two quotes for 
repairs to the damaged cupboard, pay Mr L the lesser amount towards repairs.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay to Mr L a further £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience; and
Reimburse Mr L for the costs of repair to his damaged cupboard 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman