DRN-1585218
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Brightside Insurance Services Limited 
(Brightside) when he bought and later cancelled a car insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr C took out a car insurance policy through Brightside  a broker  to 
insure his car. The policy became active at midnight that night. Shortly after midnight Mr C 
changed some of the details of his policy as he realised they were wrong. This resulted in a 
higher premium and a fee charged by Brightside for changing his details. Mr C wasnt happy 
with this and complained. He later raised a number of other issues about the service 
provided by Brightside, including the tone of a letter they sent asking him for more 
information. He decided to cancel his policy a few weeks after it had started. But Mr C wasnt 
happy with the time it took Brightside to cancel his policy, the fee they charged for doing so 
and the fact they continued to take money from his account despite him withdrawing his 
consent for them to do so. 
Brightside didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint as they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She didnt think Brightside had treated 
Mr C unfairly, or that theyd been rude or threatening in their emails to him. She also didnt 
think they were wrong to have charged the administration and cancellation fees as she 
thought theyd been applied fairly and in line with their terms of business.
As Mr C remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr C 
but, having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
The administration fee
The terms of the policy set out that, if changes are made to it, Brightside can charge an 
administration fee of £35. Mr C made changes to his policy very soon after the policy 
became active and, had he noticed the incorrect information sooner, he might not have had 
to have paid that fee. Nonetheless, I cant say Brightside have treated him unfairly in 
applying a charge that is clearly set out in the terms of the policy. 
Increased premium
Mr C was also unhappy his premium had increased. I dont think thats surprising given the 
changes he made to his policy. But, in any event, Brightside was acting as a broker. So, it 
wasnt responsible for setting out the amount of the annual premium Mr C had to pay  or for 
the amount he had to pay for the time insured once the policy had been cancelled. That was 
the responsibility of the insurer. Mr C should contact the insurer if hes unhappy with the amount hes been charged for his premiums. As a broker, it was Brightsides responsibility to 
carry out the administration of the policy and highlight key and significant terms to Mr C 
when he first took out the policy. Having looked at the information Mr C was given by 
Brightside, Im satisfied they did that. 
Customer service
Ive also looked at the correspondence between Brightside and Mr C when they were asking 
him to provide further information. Theyd asked him for that information on several 
occasions and, in the circumstances, I dont think the tone of the correspondence was 
unreasonable. Its clear and to the point and although it includes a deadline and explains 
what would happen if they didnt receive the information requested, I dont think the 
correspondence is rude or threatening, as Mr C suggests.
Cancellation
Mr C asked Brightside to cancel his policy twice. On the first occasion, he enclosed some of 
the information Brightside had been asking for at the same time. And so I can understand 
why they asked Mr C to clarify whether he wanted to cancel the policy. In reply, Mr C said he 
wanted to await the outcome of his complaint before deciding whether to cancel his policy. 
So, I think Brightside acted reasonably in not cancelling the policy at that point. 
On the second occasion, Brightside said it couldnt cancel Mr Cs policy online and said he 
would need to call their customer services team. Mr C didnt want to do that and repeated his 
request to cancel the policy. Brightside said it would arrange for someone to call him and 
said that it couldnt cancel the policy without speaking to him first. Mr C asked Brightside to 
explain why it needed to speak to him but he didnt get a response. The policy was then 
cancelled six days later. 
Brightside says it tried calling Mr C but they hadnt been able to talk to him. The policy terms 
say that anyone wanting to cancel the policy would need to call their customer services team 
so they could explain how a refund is calculated, what cancellation charges would apply, and 
whether any further payments would be required to settle the policy. So, I think it was fair for 
Brightside to ask Mr C to call them. They then tried calling him and cancelled the policy 
when it couldnt get through. It acted outside its usual procedures in doing that, and while it 
took six days to cancel the policy, I dont think that timescale is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. I can see why Mr C was frustrated by Brightsides delay in taking this action 
but Im satisfied that Brightside explained its process and clearly gave Mr C the opportunity 
to call them to get the policy cancelled sooner.
Cancellation fee
The terms of the policy set out that if a policy is cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period, 
Brightside can charge a cancellation fee of £60 and any lost commission. Mr Cs policy was 
cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period and, as such, I dont think it was unfair for 
Brightside to ask Mr C to pay the cancellation fee. I know he wasnt happy with the service 
theyd provided but I havent seen anything to suggest they treated him unfairly and I think it 
was therefore reasonable for them to apply the cancellation fee.
Collection of payment
The policy terms also say that Brightside will use the policy holders credit or debit card 
details (with their consent) to collect missed payments or premiums as they become due, as 
well as collecting cancellation and balances owing following cancellation of a policy. Mr C 
says he withdrew his consent for Brightside to take payments from him shortly before his policy was cancelled and doesnt think they should have taken the final payment from his 
account a few days later. As I see it, Mr C owed the money and Brightside had his original 
consent to use his card details to collect that amount. Had Brightside not taken the money, 
Mr C would still have owed the amount specified and they might justifiably have added 
interest and fees for any delay in payment, thus putting him in a worse financial position. 
Mr C hasnt said he was caused any financial difficulty by having the final amount deducted 
from his account. Had he done so, Brightside might have been expected to do something 
differently. But that isnt the case here and, in the particular circumstances of this case, I 
dont think Brightside treated Mr C unfairly in withdrawing that money from his account.
In summary, I think Brightside have treated Mr C fairly and reasonably and I dont think they 
need to do anything more to settle this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman