DRN-3935724
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), wont refund the outstanding money he lost 
after falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) car purchase scam whereby he 
sent money to an account held at Lloyds.
Mr R is making his complaint with the assistance of a representative. To make my decision 
easier to read, I refer only to Mr R. I do this even where it was his representative rather than 
Mr R who said or provided something. I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Mr R fell victim to a car purchase scam with Mr R making two payments / 
transfers of £10,000 and £3,880 on 14 October 2021 from his bank account to an account 
held at Lloyds. Unfortunately the car didnt exist, and Mr R had sadly paid his money to a 
fraudster.
After the scam was revealed, Mr H complained to his Bank and also raised concerns about 
Lloyds, where the receiving bank account was held. 
Mr Rs Bank and Lloyds are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. It sets out what is expected of the Sending Firm 
and it also sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to 
the receipt of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or 
used, to launder the proceeds of APP scams. 
Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required 
to reimburse the customer. And the customer may also be required to share some 
responsibility for the loss if it is determined that one of the exceptions to full reimbursement, 
as set out within the CRM Code, applies.
Mr Rs Bank didnt agree that it was liable to reimburse him for the funds he had sent.
And Lloyds, in its capacity as the Receiving Firm, also didnt consider it was liable for any 
loss Mr R incurred.
Mr R brought the complaint about both his Bank and Lloyds to our service.
Mr Rs complaint about his Bank, as the Sending Firm, was looked at under a separate 
complaint reference. In that case, an ombudsman issued a provisional decision which 
considered that both Mr R and his Bank should share responsibility for the loss. To put 
things right they considered Mr Rs Bank should refund 50% of the payments he made. Mr R 
and Mr Rs Bank accepted the ombudsmans provisional decision and Mr Rs bank refunded 
50% of Mr Rs losses.
In this case, Mr R says Lloyds, as the Receiving Firm, should also share some responsibility. 
Mr R wants it to refund him the remaining loss as he considers one of its accounts was 
opened and being used fraudulently.
Lloyds in its final response letter to Mr R didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr R 
incurred. It said that the account had been opened correctly and had been operating 
normally prior to receiving the payments  and it had no concern about the account usage 
prior to the report of fraud. It advised that following the report made against the account, it 
blocked the account, but no funds remained that could be recovered and returned to Mr R. It 
further advised it investigated the account and took the appropriate action. Overall if found 
no errors in its handling of the receiving account or in the payments that it received from 
Mr R.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. Overall, they were satisfied Lloyds had met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Mr Rs losses as it couldnt reasonably 
have done more to prevent Mr Rs loss. They were also satisfied it had responded 
appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Lloyds  as the Receiving Firm 
of the account where Mr R made payment to. Mr Rs complaint about his Bank  as the 
Sending Firm was looked at separately under a different complaint reference. 
I would also like to add at this point that Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and 
the responses briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the 
matter here  which is to determine whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent 
Mr Rs loss. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im not upholding his complaint about Lloyds. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam, but I dont believe Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Lloyds has met its requirements under the 
CRM Code and therefore isnt liable for any of Mr Rs remaining losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Lloyds, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Lloyds has signed up 
to.
The relevant overarching considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out 
the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
SF2(5) On identifying funds where there are concerns that they may be the proceeds 
of an APP scam, Firms must take reasonable steps to freeze the funds and, 
when appropriate, should repatriate them to the Customers Firm in 
accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards.In considering all of the above, and to determine if Lloyds met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Lloyds opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Lloyds any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Lloyds acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Rs loss.  
I would like to point out to Mr R at this point, that while Lloyds has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and Lloyds has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any investigation and 
action Lloyds subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mr R, I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
I appreciate Mr R has said he doesnt think Lloyds has followed correct procedures as an 
account was opened and was subsequently used fraudulently. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that Lloyds carried out checks to verify the identity of the named 
account holder and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt 
anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Lloyds that the account it was 
opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied Lloyds has taken reasonable steps 
to prevent the account being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt miss an opportunity 
to prevent Mr Rs loss when opening the account.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Lloyds as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments Mr R made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Lloyds might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.
For Mr Rs benefit, Lloyds wouldnt have known that the incoming credits to the account 
were as a result of fraud and that its account was being used fraudulently. Personal and 
business accounts often receive incoming credits, and in this case, I think it is reasonable to 
say that there was nothing to indicate to Lloyds at the time Mr R made his payments that 
there was anything suspicious going on with the beneficiary account.   So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Lloyds ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Rs loss in this way 
either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Lloyds took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
account that could be recovered as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the 
account.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Lloyds responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP 
fraud.
Overall, while Mr R was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied Lloyds met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Lloyds couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Rs money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Mr R for his remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman