DRN-4463982
The complaint
Miss L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly granted her a credit card 
account she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss L entered into an agreement with HSBC to have access to credit by way of a credit 
card account. The account was opened in January 2017 with a credit limit of £1,000. This 
was increased to £2,000 in February 2017, £3,000 in February 2019, £4,000 in August 2019, 
£5,000 in February 2020, £6,000 in March 2021 and finally £7,000 in July 2022. 
Miss L says that HSBC didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened her 
account and went on to grant her credit limit increases. She says if it had, it would have seen 
that the card wasnt affordable for her. She  also says it led to her getting into further debt. 
HSBC said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Miss Ls 
financial circumstances before granting her the card account and each of the credit limit 
increases.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought HSBC didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account opening and each of the credit limit 
increases. 
Miss L didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before opening the account I think HSBC gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Miss L about her ability to repay. I say this because it asked for details 
about her income and job and other information relating to her financial situation. HSBC then 
validated her employment details. It also carried out a credit check to find out more about 
money she owed elsewhere. This check showed no adverse information, such as defaulting 
on credit or having a county court judgment against her. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks for the account opening, it doesnt automatically mean it 
made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information that 
HSBC gathered showed. 
Having done so Im satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the 
agreement was likely to be affordable to Miss L. I say this because Miss L was at the time 
earning £23,000 a year, which would mean a monthly net income of around £1,500. HSBC 
used statistical information to calculate her likely monthly essential expenditure to arrive at a 
disposable income of £540. It also took into consideration that Miss L was living at home at 
the time. From what Ive seen, I think its likely that Miss L was in a reasonably stable 
position financially at that point. 
Miss L has said shed taken out a loan for £4,000 at around the same time as she applied for 
the card. But given that it takes some time, often several weeks, for a new line of credit to be 
recorded on a credit file, it isnt something that I would have expected HSBC to be aware of 
when carrying out its checks before granting Miss L her opening credit. 
Ive also kept in mind that Miss L had applied for the card at least in part with a view to 
making a balance transfer, presumably to pay off one or more of her other credit balances. 
On one hand, this can be seen as a practical way to reduce credit balances, especially if 
higher levels of interest are being paid. But lenders also need to be aware that clearing a 
balance means the credit remains available and can be used again, increasing a consumers 
total level of credit going forwards. Ive kept all these factors in mind but, having noted 
Miss Ls level of committed credit at the time of her application, I dont think this is something 
that ought to have been a significant concern for HSBC.
It follows that I dont think HSBC acted unfairly when approving the card application. 
HSBC doesnt have details of Miss Ls circumstances at the time of the first credit limit 
increase in February 2017. Given that it was only a month or so since the opening credit limit 
was granted, its likely that her financial circumstances had not altered to a great extent, but 
of course Ive no way of knowing for sure. Overall, I dont think its likely that HSBC acted 
unfairly in approving it. 
Turning to the five further credit limit increases, I think HSBC gathered a reasonable amount 
of evidence and information from Miss L about her ability to repay. This included looking at 
how she was managing her HSBC card as well as reviewing information provided by credit 
reference agencies. 
Looking at the second credit increase, I can see from the information HSBC was holding that 
Miss L was using around 14% of her available balance, but it was noted that this had been 
averaging at around 79% in the previous six months. Her account usage showed no issues 
of concern so I think a credit limit increase of a further £1,000 was likely to be sustainable at 
this point. 
Going forwards to the later increases, I can see that Miss L showed she was continuing to  
manage her account reasonably well. Her payment history didnt raise any significant 
concerns and HSBCs checks showed that Miss L would be able to reduce her account 
balances sustainably. HSBC had also noted that Miss Ls monthly repayment levels were on 
occasion substantially over the minimum required. I have seen that Miss L has told us that 
this calculation didnt take into account that these were due to balance transfers and other 
reasons. But this isnt the sole factor Ive considered. 
From what Ive seen, Id say that on balance and based on the available information it had 
about how Miss L was using her account, HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks for each of the limit increases. Whilst her total indebtedness had increased during 
the period of limit increases, HSBCs credit checks suggested that her total number of active 
accounts had reduced. The checks also showed her total level of unsecured debt remained 
relatively stable. There was also no notable deterioration in her financial situation, such as 
reliance on cash withdrawals, falling into arrears or adverse events such as a default being registered. So in short, Miss Ls  credit file showed that her other credit was being kept under 
control. This meant that it was likely that each of the six increases would be affordable. 
Id like to add that Miss L has also provided bank statements that show her financial situation 
was, broadly speaking, stable. Ive seen that from time to time her expenditure was 
exceeding her income but this didnt result in excessive use of an overdraft facility 
Taking all this into consideration, I therefore dont think that HSBC acted unfairly when 
granting each of the credit limit increases. 
Ive seen that Miss L strongly disagrees with our investigators findings and has gone into 
some detail to show how, going forward from the point of the second credit limit increase, 
she was not in fact sustainably paying down her balance whilst at the same time her 
finances were becoming increasingly stretched. Ive also seen from her credit report that she 
was consistently borrowing elsewhere and making regular use of balance transfer facilities. 
However, whilst I can see how a more in-depth enquiry might have revealed issues in the 
way she was managing her overall financial situation, I cant say that theres enough 
evidence or information to suggest that such further enquiries were necessary. 
In summary, the evidence and information Ive seen demonstrates that Miss L was 
managing this and other credit sufficiently well to be able to make regular, sustainable 
repayments. I am therefore unable to make a finding that it acted unfairly by increasing 
Miss Ls credit limit on each occasion. 
It follows that I dont think HSBCs actions in opening the account and for each of the six 
credit limit increases is enough to show that it acted irresponsibly so as to grant her credit 
that was likely to be unaffordable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman