DRN-2865537
The complaint
Mr S complains about his motor insurer Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited 
(AAISL). Hes unhappy with their valuation of his car, after it was stolen. 
What happened
Mr S says the valuation AAISL have come up with is less than similar cars cost on a well-
known car sales website. 
AAISL have explained that their valuation was based on the values in two industry guides. 
They offered Mr S the higher of the two values, so they feel its a fair offer. They also noted 
that valuing the car like this was is in line with our published approach when theres a 
dispute about a vehicles value.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator checked the valuations AAISL had used. 
That led him to feel the settlement offer was fair, even though it seemed Mr S couldnt find a 
similar car for that price on the website he was using. 
Mr S didnt agree that was the right outcome, as he felt he wouldnt be able to buy a 
replacement car for that value. The complaint has therefore come to me for a formal 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find AAISL have taken reasonable steps to value Mr Ss car, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Ill explain my decision, although the 
reasoning in similar to what our investigator already explained. 
Mr S is working out the value of his car by looking at the asking price for cars like his that are 
being sold on a national website. But AAISL are using industry guides to look up the value 
instead. 
As AAISL have noted, their approach is in line with what we consider to be a fair and 
reasonable method for valuing a car. We publish guidance to that effect on our website.
The guides are informed by national research and analysis of car sales to work out the likely 
selling price of a vehicle. As such, they consider more data than the single website Mr S is 
looking at. And they look not just at the asking price for the vehicle, but the price it actually 
sells for. These may not always be the same amount, as asking prices may sometimes be 
set with negotiation in mind.
Sometimes with more unusual cars, the values in the guides arent as accurate, because 
there isnt as much data for them to consider. But in this case, Mr Ss car is a well-known 
make, and doesnt appear to have any unique alterations or features to it. So AAISL could 
expect the guides to be able to accurately give a value for it. 
With that in mind, I find its reasonable for AAISL to give the valuation provided by the guides 
more weight than the adverts Mr S has referred to. They are based on more data, and actual 
sale prices rather than asking prices. 
Ive looked at the valuations AAISL got from the guides. They seem to have put the accurate 
details in for Mr Ss car. And the values they found are in line with what our investigator 
found when he double checked the guides. AAISL have then taken the higher of the two 
valuations for their settlement offer to Mr S, which I find was more beneficial to him than 
using an average. 
So I find AAISL have taken a reasonable approach to come up with their valuation. Im not 
going to tell them to do anything differently here. 
I can appreciate Mr Ss feeling that he wont be able to find an exact replacement for his car 
for the price the guides say he could. But it may instead be he needs to search for other 
places where people or traders advertise cars, in order to find the lower prices the guides 
seem to have found. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman