DRN-3450448
The complaint
Ms N complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card.
 
I know that Ms N has another complaint about an AXA store card. To be clear, this decision 
is only about the PPI that was sold in July 2001 and cancelled with effect from 27 
September 2005. The account number ends in 8762. I am issuing a separate decision about 
the other policy Ms N has complained about. 
What happened
After Ms N complained to this service, AXA agreed that it had mis-sold PPI to her. It offered 
to pay £109.24 to compensate her for that mis-sale. 
Ms N didnt think the amount was right and she thought she had paid more premiums than 
was reflected in the offer. Our adjudicator looked at the offer and thought it was fair. Ms N 
didnt agree with our adjudicators view and so the matter was passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the issues raised by Ms N at some length, Im satisfied AXAs offer of 
£109.24 was fair. Ill explain why below. 
As the parties agree PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to look at what happened at the point of 
sale. I have to look at whether AXA offered to fairly compensate Ms N for that mis-sale. 
AXA accepts it mis-sold PPI to Ms N. So I would expect it to return her to the position she 
would be in now if PPI had never been sold in the first place. So, I would expect it to refund 
all of the PPI premiums Ms N paid, along with any additional interest and charges she paid 
because of the PPI premiums. And Id also expect it to pay 8% simple interest to Ms N to 
compensate her for any period she was out of pocket because of the PPI policy. 
In this case, AXA doesnt have full detailed transactions from Ms Ns store card account. It 
knows that the cover started on 19 July 2001 and this policy ended on 27 September 2005. 
AXA also knows that Ms N paid £50.60 for PPI over the lifetime of the PPI policy. So, it has 
used this total amount to work out what Ms N would have paid every month for PPI. Im 
satisfied that its approach in this regard is fair. Having undertaken that calculation, AXA also 
worked out that Ms N would have paid an additional £5.90 in additional interest because of 
the PPI. I can see AXA also calculated that it owed Ms N £52.74 in simple interest to 
compensate her for the time she was out of pocket because of the PPI.  This all came to a 
total of £109.24. 
Essentially, AXA has undertaken all of the steps I would expect it to take to calculate a fair 
offer of compensation to Ms N in this case. I know Ms N says she thought shed paid for PPI 
for longer, but I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest AXAs records were 
wrong when it said she had paid PPI on this particular account between July 2001 and 
September 2005. I know that Ms N paid for PPI for longer in respect of her other account  
and I have dealt with that in my separate decision.  
It is not entirely clear to me whether Ms N has been paid compensation of £109.24 yet. If Ms 
N accepts my decision and she has not yet been paid, AXA will need to update its 8% simple 
interest offer to be paid up to the date Ms N gets that money back.
My final decision
AXAs offer to compensate Ms N by £109.24 in respect of account ending 8762 was fair. 
However, if Ms N has not yet been paid that compensation, AXA will need to update its offer 
of 8% interest to be paid until the date Ms N gets that money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman