DRN-3992971
The complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled his motor insurance policy 
without giving him notice.  
What happened
In September 2022 Mr J contacted UKI to insure a car hed just bought on his existing policy. 
However, he was told his insurance had been cancelled. Mr J says he had no prior 
knowledge of this. He says he now knows the no claims information he provided was 
insufficient. However, he maintains he received no contact from UKI explaining this or 
warning him of the cancellation. 
Mr J says he did receive some emails from UKI, but they were newsletters not specifically 
about his policy or its cancellation. He says the fact he was uninsured for a period couldve 
had a significant impact on him, his career, and his family. Mr J says its still possible that he 
could be prosecuted, and that the cancellation will impact on the cost of future insurance.  
In its response to Mr Js complaint UKI says the proof of no-claims he sent didnt include an 
expiry/cancellation date. It says it emailed Mr J on 26 June 2022 explaining what information 
it needed to see. UKI says further emails were sent, again on 26 June and then on 3 July 
requesting a response. As no information was provided it reduced Mr Js no-claims bonus to 
zero on 11 August. It says this generated an additional premium for £137.93. 
UKI says it emailed Mr J on 11 August 2022 to tell him the additional premium will be 
collected in seven days using the debit card details on file. It says the email warned Mr J his 
policy could be cancelled if payment wasnt received. When payment couldnt be collected 
on 19 August, UKI says it emailed Mr J again asking him to call without delay or his policy 
will cancel in seven days. No response was received. UKI then cancelled the policy on 27 
August. 
In its complaint response UKI provided a breakdown of the premium Mr J had paid for 
insurance cover up to the cancellation, including administration fees. It confirmed a refund of 
£77.60 had been provided. 
Mr J didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. He says UKI should 
use more than one communication method for important information involving cancellations. 
He also says it should also be able to prove that emails were sent. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She says the terms of Mr Js policy state communication will be sent 
by email. She was satisfied UKI had contacted Mr J by email several times to inform him of 
the no-claims information it needed and about the cancellation. 
Mr J didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. Let me explain. 
From the records provided I can see emails were sent to Mr J to let him know that his proof 
of no-claims information was still outstanding. This was on 26 June 2022. A further email 
was sent on 3 July. The top of the email says, Please read this  your insurance policy 
premium may increase!. It explains proof of no-claims must be provided within seven days 
or Mr Js discount may be removed. 
I can see a further email dated 11 August 2022 was sent to Mr J to inform him a further 
payment of £137.93 was now required. This was made up of a revised annual premium 
payment for £112.93 and a mid-term adjustment fee of £25. The email confirms collection of 
this amount will take place in seven days. UKI followed this up with an email on 19 August. It 
tells Mr J if he doesnt make contact within seven days his policy will be cancelled. 
UKI has supplied a copy of the email it sent to Mr J on 27 August 2022. This says his policy 
has been cancelled and sets out the refund it paid to him. 
Ive thought about Mr Js comments that he didnt receive any of these emails. I can see that 
the email address used by UKI is the same as he provided to our service. UKI says it uses a 
bounce back system to detect emails that arent delivered. It says it didnt receive any 
bounce back notifications in Mr Js case. I also note that he received UKIs complaint 
response by email and says other emails containing newsletters were received. 
Ive read Mr Js policy terms to understand how UKI is expected to communicate with him. 
The terms say:
Cancellation by us
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you at least 7 days notice in 
writing where this is a valid reason for doing so. 
We will send our cancellation letter to the latest email address and/or the last postal address 
we have for you.  
Mr Js insurance broker sent the following information to him explaining how he will be 
contacted:
As an environmentally friendly business we will communicate with you in all instances 
electronically using the email address you provide, so it is important that you have reliable 
access to this email address and check it regularly. It is also important that you take care 
when giving us your email address to make sure it is accurate to avoid your details being 
sent to someone else. We will also provide all your documentation in digital and 
downloadable format within the secure My Account section of thewebsite at [website]. 
This ensures your insurance documents are safe and accessible at all times. Your key 
insurance documents can be sent to you via post, free of charge upon request, but please 
be aware that the paper documents are no longer required for taxing your vehicle or showing 
to the police as the authorities have access to the Motor Insurance Database. For all other 
purposes electronic copies are usually acceptable as well as being fully eco-friendly.Based on this information UKI acted according to its agreement with Mr J when contacting 
him using the email address he had provided. The terms say a cancellation letter will be sent 
by email and/or writing. UKI sent this via email, which is in line with its policy terms and 
conditions. 
I acknowledge Mr J has requested a significant sum in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. Im sorry hes been distressed by this incident. But I cant 
see that UKI did anything wrong. 
UKI has shown it cancelled the policy in line with its policy terms. It sent emails informing Mr 
J his no-claims proof was insufficient. It also confirmed the action he needed to take to avoid 
cancellation. Finally, an email was sent confirming the policy had been cancelled. From the 
information provided I can see the date and time these emails were issued. Based on this 
Im satisfied they were sent.   
Having considered all of this I dont think UKI treated Mr J unfairly. So, I cant reasonably ask 
it to do anymore. 
I acknowledge Mr Js comments that UKI should change its processes. However, Im not 
able to tell UKI how it should run its business. Were not the regulator. This is the role 
performed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our service acts to resolve individual 
disputes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman