DRN-3961831
The complaint
Mr M complains through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket 
(Quidmarket) gave him loans without carrying out proportionate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr M took three loans from Quidmarket between November 2020 and August 2021. Ive 
outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 09/11/2020 26/02/2021 4 £117.46
2 £400.00 28/02/2021 12/07/2021 5 £145.58
3 £600.00 03/08/2021 26/01/2022 6 £196.65
Following Mr Ms complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter (FRL) to his 
representative. In summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed 
these loans were affordable. Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture 
of goodwill it offered to remove these loans from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it about loan 1. However, 
the adjudicator thought Quidmarket shouldnt have approved loans 2 and 3. The adjudicator 
said, since loan 1, Mr M had taken a further two instalment loans which led to Mr M spending 
over £500 each month solely on credit commitments  which the adjudicator thought was too 
high. For loan 3, the adjudicator could see that Mr M  on just repaying his existing loans 
was having to pay over £530 per month and he had credit cards that also needed servicing 
as well. Again, in his view, Mr Ms credit commitments were at an unsustainable level. 
Neither Quidmarket nor Mr Ms representative acknowledged or responded to the 
adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. 
These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Neither Mr Ms representative nor Quidmarket appear to disagree that loan 1 wasnt lent 
correctly. So, I no longer think this loan is in dispute. But I would say, just briefly, that I also 
dont think that Quidmarket made an unreasonable decision because it carried out a 
proportionate check which showed the loan was affordable. I therefore say no more about it, 
instead this decision will focus on loans 2 and 3. 
Loans 2 and 3
For each of these loans, the amount Mr M borrowed increased as well as the term which 
therefore, led to Mr Ms monthly commitment increasing each time. 
Before these loans were approved the same sort of checks were carried out. Quidmarket 
asked for Mr Ms income and expenditure details as well as carrying out a credit search. 
For loan 2, Mr M declared his income as being £1,314 per month and for loan 3 he declared 
an income of £1,432. For loans 2 Quidmarket also asked Mr M for a copy of his bank 
statements to confirm his income. So, Im satisfied that Quidmarket had an accurate idea as 
to how much Mr M was earning at the time these loans were granted.  For loan 2, Mr M declared monthly expenditure of £580  which left him with disposable 
monthly income of £734. However, Quidmarket also carried out a credit search before this 
loan was approved (which I go into more detail below) and having done so, it increased his 
monthly outgoings by a further £380 which reduced Mr Ms disposable income to £328 per 
month. 
A similar process was carried out before loan 3, so Mr M declared his expenditure and 
following a credit search and making adjustments to the information Mr M had provided, 
Quidmarket conclude he had £414 per month disposable income. 
Before these loans were approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received from the 
credit reference agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search 
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Quidmarket was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Quidmarket to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Mr Ms application.
For loan 2, Mr Ms overall indebtedness had increased significantly since loan 1. In addition, 
the credit check results showed that in the two months leading up to loan 2, Mr M had been 
granted credit totalling £2,803  from lenders the credit file had noted as being Finance 
House. Mr M also had a credit card that needed servicing.  
These three loans had combined monthly repayments of £287. On top of this, Mr M wouldve 
had his commitment to Quidmarket of around £145. So, Mr M was going to be committed to 
spending at least £442 per month against an income of around £1,300. 
For loan 3, Mr Ms situation had in my deteriorated further. His overall indebtedness had 
almost doubled since loan 2, to £5,539. The number of active accounts had also increased 
from 7 (at loan 2) to 14. 
Mr M had four Finance House loans outstanding  3 had a total monthly repayment of 
£337. There was also a newly opened loan in June 2021 which the credit report says had a 
monthly repayment of £300 although given the amount borrowed and term of the loan  its 
likely the repayments werent as high as that.  In addition, he wouldve also had a monthly 
commitment of around £196 due to Quidmarket. 
So, Mr Ms monthly credit commitments to the three loans I can see as well as this proposed 
Quidmarket loan came to around £534. On top of this he had the loan opened in June 2021 
and Mr M had opened a new credit card account in April 2021 and was already close to his 
credit limit of £900. He also had a second credit card to repay which had a balance of £406. In addition, the credit file shows Mr M was still taking out new credit, even when he had 
settled previous loans. For the third loan I can see that Mr M settled two finance house loans 
in July 2021. This isnt sustainable as it does suggest that Mr M was needing to take out new 
loans to fill a hole paying a previous loan left in his finances. And Quidmarket knew this from 
the data that it had been provided by the credit reference agency.  
So, like the adjudicator, when loans 2 and 3 were granted, in my view Mr M was already 
committed to spending a significant portion of his verified income in servicing existing debts. 
In these circumstances, in my view, there was a significant risk Mr M wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably meet his repayments for these two loans. 
Overall, I am upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 2 and 3 to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought not to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr M loans 2 and 3. 
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ms credit 
file in relation to loans 2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part. 
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr M as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman