DRN-2913052
The complaint
Mr R complained that his claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy with 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr R said that a storm damaged his roof which caused it to leak. So, he made a claim to 
Lloyds under his home insurance policy. Mr R said his roof was well maintained by his 
roofer, so any damage had always been repaired.
Lloyds investigated the claim and identified that high winds were present at the time of the 
reported incident, so it appointed a contractor to assess the damage. The appointed 
contractor concluded that whilst there have been heavy winds in your area around the date 
of the loss, the wind merely highlighted a pre-existing issue. Based on the contractors 
report, Lloyds decided to decline the claim as the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He agreed that Lloyds had been fair in 
declining the claim for the reasons it set out, he thought the evidence supported its view. Mr 
R disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Lloyds agreed that storm conditions were present at the time of the incident, so this question 
can be answered as yes.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Mr R said that the storm dislodged a tile in the roof. I think its fair to conclude that storm 
force winds would be enough to blow tiles off a roof, so yes, this damage is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of damage which led to the leak Mr R 
suffered. 
Lloyds appointed contactor assessed the damage and produced a report explaining the 
likely cause. I think Lloyds has taken a reasonable approach in getting an expert view before 
making its decision whether the damage was covered by the policy.
Lloyds rejected the claim, as its contractor said the storm was not the main cause of 
damage, Lloyds concluded the storm had merely highlighted a pre-existing issue.
I have also reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy to see what is covered. 
I can see that the policy does cover damage caused by a storm. However, it does highlight 
that A storm can highlight damage rather than cause it, and damage that happens gradually 
through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered.
Therefore, if Lloyds have demonstrated the damage was likely to have been caused by wear 
and tear, I am likely to say its been fair in declining the claim as this is an excluded term in 
its policy.
I have reviewed the experts report to see if its conclusions are fair. The experts report says:
On inspection one of the tiles that has been put as a flashing on the bottom of the 
chimney has come away and it appears that the mortar all around the bottom of the 
chimney has deteriorated and some more of these tiles [are] loose. I checked the 
flaunching on top of the chimney, and it appears that this has also cracked badly and 
needs replacement. The customer has been advised that none of these damages 
[are] due to storm peril as the mortar has deteriorated over a period of time due to 
freeze/thaw action and because [these] repairs will not be covered.
I have looked at the photographic evidence that accompanies the report. The commentary is 
consistent with what I can see in the photos, so I am persuaded that the portion of the roof in 
question was not well maintained. As this is the area of the roof that leaked, I think the 
contractors conclusions are fair. Therefore, I think Lloyds has been reasonable in declining 
the claim as the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr R said, my roofer who carried out the repairs on the roof stated that only excessively 
strong winds would have caused these damages to my roof. I have considered this and the 
photographs that Mr R has provided of the repairs carried out. I also know from Mr Rs 
account that hes tried to maintain his roof as hes become aware of issues.
I have determined what I think is most likely to have happened based on the evidence that 
has been provided. I know this will disappoint Mr R, but I find the pictures of the damage and 
report provided by Lloyds contractor to be persuasive. I do think its more likely that this area 
of the roof has not recently been maintained. I think wear and tear is most likely to have 
been the main cause of the damage, and the storm has highlighted this underlying issue. I 
therefore think Lloyds have been fair in declining the claim for this reason.
I understand Mr Rs viewpoint that he thinks he should be covered as his policy covers storm 
damage. However, it excludes damage that is primarily caused by wear and tear, such as in 
this case. I dont think its fair to expect Lloyds or other insurers to pay for damage where a 
roof hasnt been well maintained and where that has been the primary cause of the damage. 
I know Mr R has tried to keep his roof in good order, but I dont think this area of the roof has 
been maintained recently. So, unfortunately, Im unable to uphold this complaint as I havent been able to answer yes to all of the three questions I set out at the start. I also cant see 
any other aspects of the policy that may cover this damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman