DRN-4162281
The complaint
Mr F complains HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined a claim he brought under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr Fs mother made an agreement with a dental practice, CD, for dental implant treatment, 
in September 2020, at a cost of £16,0000. Mr F used his HSBC Visa credit card to pay for 
the course of treatment, across three separate payments, also in September 2020.
Mr F says his mothers treatment kept getting pushed back and, although she had some 
appointments, the dental implant treatment was not done. CD then went out of business 
without having fulfilled its agreement with Mrs Fs mother.
In May 2022 Mr F approached HSBC for assistance in getting his money back. He filled out 
a form and provided more information to the bank after it requested further evidence about 
the situation. In August 2022 HSBC wrote to Mr F saying it couldnt help him. It said that the 
protection of section 75 of the CCA didnt apply because he had financed a contract between 
his mother and CD. So he couldnt make a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr F was unhappy with this outcome and asked to discuss it, but he wasnt called back 
about it as promised. He subsequently made a complaint, which HSBC responded to on 17 
November 2022. It didnt change its position on the outcome of Mr Fs claim, but it did pay 
him £50 to cover any inconvenience caused by handling his enquiries poorly (i.e. not calling 
him back as promised).
In the meantime, Mr F had approached the Financial Ombudsman Service and we began 
looking into the complaint after we received confirmation that HSBC had responded to it. 
One of our investigators issued an assessment on 9 May 2023. She made the following 
findings:
For Section 75 of the CCA to apply to a situation, there needed to be a debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. Here this meant the HSBC credit card needed to 
finance a transaction between Mr F and CD.
Mr F had used his HSBC credit card, but he wasnt the person who had a contract 
with CD. The paperwork from the dentist only mentioned his mother as the patient. 
This meant the required DCS agreement wasnt in place for HSBC to be answerable 
for CDs breach of contract.
Chargeback was another route HSBC could have considered to claim Mr Fs money 
back, but by the time he approached HSBC for assistance it was too late for it to try 
to get the money back in this way.
Mr F asked for his case to be forwarded to an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person pays for goods or services using their credit card, theres no general 
obligation on their credit card issuer to help if something goes wrong with the purchase. 
However, they may be able to help reclaim payments made on the card via the dispute 
resolution process known as chargeback, or they may have a legal obligation to honour a 
claim from their customer under section 75 of the CCA.
Chargeback
Chargebacks are a mechanism for resolving disputes over card payments. The mechanism 
is overseen and administered by the relevant card scheme (Visa in this case, at the time 
Mr F made the payments to CD). The scheme sets various rules concerning the chargeback 
process which HSBC and other card issuers must follow. 
It doesnt appear that HSBC thought about whether it could help Mr F by attempting 
chargebacks. While chargebacks are not something a consumer can require their card 
issuer to attempt, I would expect an issuer to attempt one, so long as to do so would be 
compliant with the card scheme rules and the chargeback would have a reasonable prospect 
of succeeding.
Some of the rules set by the card scheme concern how long a card issuer has to attempt a 
chargeback after the initial credit card payment was made. Under the Visa rules, for 
situations like Mr Fs where payments have been made for services which havent been 
provided, there is a long stop of 540 days from the date of the payment. Chargebacks 
cannot be validly pursued after this point. As our investigator noted, by the time Mr F 
approached HSBC for assistance, it was unfortunately already too late. So while it doesnt 
appear HSBC considered whether it could have helped Mr F by attempting chargebacks, 
had it done so I think it would have concluded that it could not help him in this way. So I dont 
think Mr F has been disadvantaged by the banks failure to look into this option.
Section 75
Section 75 of the CCA gives credit card account holders a degree of protection when they 
pay for goods or services using a credit card. If certain technical criteria are met, the account 
holder can hold their credit card issuer liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of the goods or services.
In Mr Fs case the focus has been on whether one of the technical criteria has been met, 
which is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement. What this means in practice is 
that in order to have a valid claim against their card issuer under section 75, a person needs 
to have used their credit card with that issuer to pay a supplier who they have a claim 
against for breach of contract or misrepresentation. This is because section 75 gives a 
person a like claim  i.e. the same claim  against their credit card issuer as they have 
against the supplier.1
Mr F used his HSBC credit card to pay a supplier, CD. There is also a potential claim against 
CD for a breach of contract. So I can understand why he thinks he might also have a valid 
claim against the bank because of section 75 of the CCA. 
1 So long as that claim is in respect of a breach of contract or misrepresentation.The problem is that it is not he who has a claim against CD for breach of contract. It is his 
mother who has such a claim, because she was the patient who CD had agreed to treat. The 
contract for the treatment was between her and CD and Mr F is not named anywhere on it. 
So while Mr F may have paid for the treatment for his mother, he was not a party to the 
contract and is unable to claim in respect of it having been breached. Because he has no 
claim for breach of contract against CD, it follows that he has no like claim against HSBC 
either which he can require the bank to honour under section 75 of the CCA.
I dont lack in sympathy for Mr F or his mother  they appear to have been left in an 
unfortunate and distressing situation through no fault of their own. However, my role is to 
decide whether HSBC, in saying that it could not help them, acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
For the reasons explained, I do not think it has done anything wrong.
Customer service issues
HSBC paid Mr F £50 in respect of customer service failings  specifically a call back which it 
had promised to make but did not. Mr F hasnt explicitly asked us to make findings on this 
but, for the sake of completeness, this appears to me to have been a fair resolution to 
address the inconvenience caused by it failing to call Mr F back as agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman