DRN-4236121
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) dealt with a claim he 
made under his new home warranty.
What happened
Mr G bought a new home. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty which began in 
December 2015. He reported a number of problems to the builder of the home and to NHBC.
In August 2017 NHBC agreed to consider some of the problems under Section 2 of the 
warranty, which is its Resolution Service.
It issued a report in June 2018 which included item 7, labelled cold throughout the property. 
NHBC took responsibility for carrying out or arranging for further investigations into this item 
when the external temperature was low enough.
NHBC agreed to take action relating to other items in that report  and other items in 
subsequent reports  but theyre not the subject of this complaint, so I wont comment on 
them any further. Ill focus on item 7.
In 2022, Mr G made a complaint about the way NHBC had dealt with the problems hed 
raised. That included NHBC not carrying out or arranging an investigation into item 7.
By early 2023, the builder had carried out a thermal survey. And Mr G provided further 
information about the problem. NHBC agreed more work was needed to the insulation.
NHBC accepted there had been an unreasonable delay in reaching this stage. It said the 
requirement for sufficiently cold temperatures and the impact of Covid-19 were partly 
responsible for the time it had taken, but it conceded it should have progressed things more 
promptly. It offered £1,750 compensation to recognise the impact of the delay.
Our investigator thought the compensation offered was a reasonable remedy to the delay 
NHBC had caused. She said the next steps were for NHBC to agree the appropriate 
insulation work with Mr G  but that wouldnt fall within the scope of this complaint.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to consider his complaint. He made a number of points, 
which Ill summarise:
Initially the builder didnt agree to a thermal survey  they thought the cavity wall 
insulation should be increased in certain areas and a survey wasnt required to assist 
with that. This work was done, but Mr G wasnt satisfied with it.
After he insisted a survey was required, this was eventually carried out. Not all of the 
issues identified by the survey have been put right by the builder  and the builder 
has become unresponsive.
The thermal survey was carried out externally and focused on the cavity wall 
insulation, but other areas of the house also get very cold. An internal survey should 
be carried out to assess the other areas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr G originally referred his complaint about item 7 to this Service, it was solely about 
the delay in having the survey carried out. So thats the complaint point within the scope of 
this complaint. That means Im considering how NHBC dealt with this item from the time it 
became responsible for it in 2018, to the time the survey was carried out in January 2023.
In summary, the Resolution report said Mr G had raised concerns about cold throughout the 
property. NHBC said that would be investigated by taking temperature readings to identify 
whether there were any areas of heat loss. That would include investigating the areas near 
the rear patio doors, the kitchen plinth, and skirting boards.
NHBC committed to doing this investigation in 2018, so from that point it was responsible for 
either carrying it out or arranging for the builder to do so. It said it would need to wait until a 
time when external temperatures were suitably low. That was likely to be early 2019.
Around four years later, in January 2023, a thermal survey was carried out. Its focus was the 
cavity wall insulation. Mr G says this means the other areas NHBC agreed needed to be 
investigated havent been surveyed. Hes asked for it to carry out an internal thermal survey.
NHBC says the survey would have revealed problems in the other areas if there had been 
any. So it doesnt think any further investigation is needed.
I havent seen any expert evidence or opinion to the contrary so, based on the information 
available to me, Im satisfied that NHBC has fulfilled its responsibility to have the cold 
problem investigated. If Mr G disagrees and has any evidence to support that, hes entitled 
to share it with NHBC and Id expect it to consider whether that changes its position.
NHBC has accepted there was an unreasonable delay. Whilst Covid-19 did have an impact 
in 2020 and 2021, I dont think this is relevant here. If the survey had been carried out in 
2019 as it should have been, or even in early 2020, the limitations imposed by the pandemic 
wouldnt have made a difference.
Nonetheless, Im satisfied that its offer of £1,750 compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances and fairly takes into account the impact of the delay on Mr G. That includes 
the trouble he had to go to in order to persuade the builder to carry out the thermal survey  
which he shouldnt have had to do.
I know Mr G has concerns about the recommendations NHBC has made for further work 
following the thermal survey. Those concerns are outside the scope of this complaint, so I 
wont comment on them, but hes entitled to raise them with NHBC. That includes any 
concerns about the insulation work carried out by the builder.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require National House-Building Council to pay £1,750 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman