DRN-3939878
The complaint
Mrs R is complaining about the charges for damage when she gave her car back following a 
hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance Ltd (Marsh). 
What happened
Mrs R entered into a hire purchase agreement with Marsh in January 2019 for a used car. 
The agreement was for around 5 years, but in March 2022 she told Marsh she wanted to 
give the car back and voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
This termination was processed, and Marsh had the car collected and inspected for damage 
in April 2022. They identified three areas of damage that they said were outside of fair wear 
and tear, and would be chargeable:
- The front bumper was scratched and a charge of £141.50 to repair this was raised. 
- All four wheels were scratched/scuffed, and a charge for £220 (£55 per wheel) was 
raised. 
- There was a chip in the front windscreen and a charge of £334.77 was raised. 
An invoice was raised therefore totalling £696.27. 
Mrs R complained to Marsh, saying the car was damaged when she got it, and she didnt 
think the charges were fair. Marsh replied to her complaint in September 2022 with their final 
response letter (FRL), saying that they werent upholding her complaint. They were satisfied 
the charges were fair and they didnt offer to reduce or remove the charges. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. An investigator her 
investigated it, and in their initial view, they agreed that the charges for damage to the front 
bumper and all four wheels were fair, but they said that as they could not see from the photo 
provided whereabouts on the windscreen the chip was, they didnt feel it was fair to charge 
for it. 
Marsh came back to the investigator with another photo, showing that the chip was on the 
passenger side of the windscreen, but explained they still felt this was chargeable, as it 
would be in a drivers eyeline if they were watching for traffic merging onto a motorway from 
their left. The investigator didnt agree with this and said this didnt change their mind, and 
they didnt think it was fair to charge for this chip. Marsh didnt accept this and asked for an 
Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all three items of damage charged to assess whether the charges have been 
raised fairly. I am satisfied that its fair for Marsh to charge for damages which fall outside of 
fair wear and tear, so I have considered what constitutes fair in this context. 
In doing this, Ive considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) 
guidance. This guidance outlines what is considered acceptable wear and tear for cars being 
returned at the end of finance agreements. Alongside this, Ive also taken into account that 
the car was already four years old when it was supplied. This means that some wear and 
tear may have already occurred, and the car would have been around seven years old when 
it was returned. BVRLA guidelines are more commonly used for new cars which are 
provided on finance agreements, so I have also considered the level of damage, and the 
likelihood that it might already have occurred before Mrs R acquired the car. 
With regards to the Front bumper scratch, the BVRLA guidelines say that scratches of 25mm 
or less, where the primer or bare metal is not showing, are acceptable. In looking at the 
photograph of this scratch, there is no measuring tool alongside it, but Id estimate its at 
least 250-300mm long, and goes through the topcoat. 
I dont think this is fair wear and tear, and I think its extremely unlikely it was present when 
the car was supplied, as its a large scratch. Id have expected Mrs R to have noticed it and 
wanted it fixing if it was present at point of supply. As such, I am satisfied that the charge for 
£141.50 for repairing the scratch is fair.
With regards to the wheels, I have looked at all four photos provided and considered the 
BVRLA guidance. The guidance says that for damage to wheel trims and rims, scuffs up to 
50mm of the total circumference of the wheel are considered fair wear and tear. The photos 
show that on each wheel, the damage is more than 100mm. On some wheels its a lot more, 
covering a large amount of the circumference of the wheel. 
I am satisfied that this damage on each wheel is well outside of fair wear and tear. Im not 
persuaded it was likely to have been present when the car was supplied, due to the amount 
of damage. Again, if the wheels were damaged like this when Mrs R was acquiring the car, I 
would have expected her to highlight it, and to have wanted them repairing. I am satisfied 
that the total charge for repairs of £220 here is fair (£55 per wheel). 
Finally, Ive considered the chipped windscreen. The BVRLA guidelines are quite clear on 
this. If the damage is within the drivers line of vision and is more than 10mm, it is outside of 
fair wear and tear. The drivers line of vision is described in the guidelines as being an area 
290mm wide centred on the steering wheel. 
The guidelines then say that if the damage is outside of this line of vision, but is in the area 
swept by the vehicles wiper blades, 40mm is the acceptable fair wear and tear level, and 
anything larger than this would fall outside of fair wear and tear. 
Ive examined the photos provided. The first photo includes a measuring tool placed fairly 
close to the chip. Its not perfectly aligned to the measuring tool, but it appears to be roughly 
20-30mm in size. Marsh have not suggested that they think its more than 40mm and havent 
provided any evidence that shows its larger than 40mm. The second photo provided shows 
the chip is on the passenger side, so clearly not in the drivers line of vision as described in 
the guidelines. 
As such, it should be considered as fair wear and tear. The chip is below 40mm in size and 
is not in the drivers line of vision. Marshs argument about what constitutes the drivers line 
of vision isnt relevant, because BVRLA guidance clearly sets out, including with diagrams, 
that the area considered the line of vision is basically immediately in front of the steering 
wheel. This chip is a long way from this area. It is not fair therefore for Marsh to charge for 
this repair, so I will be asking them to remove this charge.  Putting things right
I instruct Marsh Finance Ltd to remove the charge of £334.77 for a windscreen chip from the 
damages invoice. The remaining charges totalling £361.50 have been fairly charged and 
should be paid by Mrs R. 
I dont know whether the invoice has been paid already. If it hasnt, Marsh Finance Ltd 
should amend the invoice and send a corrected invoice for £361.50 to Mrs R so she can pay 
it.
However, if the full invoice has already been paid by Mrs R, then Marsh should refund the 
£334.77 to Mrs R. They should also apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, 
calculated from the date Mrs R made the payment to the date of the refund. 
If this is required, and Marsh Finance Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs R how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I am partly upholding this complaint and instruct Marsh Finance Ltd to amend the damages 
charges as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman