DRN-2781687
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) took a final
balloon payment, on a finance agreement he had with them, by mistake and that they
havent compensated him sufficiently for the error.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint as I dont think MBFS have provided sufficient
redress. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a type of hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about
it.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that finance providers are liable for
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier in this type of finance
before the consumer takes out the credit agreement. As Mr P was taking out a new 
agreement with MBFS through the dealership I think MBFS were therefore liable for the
dealerships actions in relation to the agreement.
I dont think its disputed that the dealership told Mr P his previous agreement would be
settled before his final balloon payment was taken.
MBFS have explained the dealership didnt confirm the settlement or make the settlement
payment until after the balloon payment was due and thats why the balloon payment of
£10,935 was taken in error.
So, I think its fair that they compensate Mr P for that error.
They should pay 8% interest on the balloon payment that they retained in error because
Mr P was deprived of that money.
In their final response MBFS said:
having not received notification of the intention from the Retailer, the balloon payment was
automatically billed for at the end of the agreement, as per the terms of the contract.
But thats not what the contract said. It said:
Option to Purchase
The vehicle will not become your property unless you have exercised your option to
purchase the vehicle.
It therefore appears the default position is that the car will be returned unless the consumer
exercises his option to purchase it.
So, in any case, MBFS shouldnt have taken the balloon payment without Mr Ps consent
and I think its clear he didnt give that consent as he handed the car back through the
dealership.
Regardless of that, MBFS have taken responsibility for the error and have agreed to make a
payment of £100 to Mr P which they have explained consists of an interest payment of about
£65 for the time they had his money and a payment for the distress and inconvenience
caused of about £35.
Whilst I understand Mr P hasnt provided any evidence of financial loss as a result of the
money being taken from his account I can imagine it would have been distressing and
inconvenient to have had such a large sum removed from his account unexpectedly.
It took some time before the funds were credited back to him and hes had to talk to his bank
and escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier.
I dont therefore think MBFS have adequately compensated him for the level of distress and
inconvenience caused and I think they should pay him £200 in respect of that and also pay
interest on the balloon payment they collected in error.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
calculate 8% simple interest per annum on the £10,935 payment they retained in
error for 28 days and pay this to Mr P unless theyve already done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. But MBFS didnt 
agree. They said that whilst they understood Mr P did not exercise his wish to purchase the 
vehicle, his agreement states that the OPP (Optional Purchase Payment) will be due after 36 
months, and therefore he is aware that this sum would become due. Having read and agreed to the terms and conditions, the customer would therefore be fully aware this sum 
would be taken. And they explained that had Mr P not wanted to proceed he would have 
needed to give them notice to make sure the payment wasnt processed.
I dont agree that the default position was for the OPP to be taken. The agreement explained 
that if you want to purchase the vehicle you must pay the Optional Purchase Payment and 
the Purchase Activation Fee. It also explained that The vehicle will not become your 
property unless you have exercised your option to purchase the vehicle.
I dont think Mr P ever exercised this option so the OPP should never have been taken. 
Putting things right
So Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and I think, for the reasons 
Ive already given, that the compensation MBFS offered in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience their mistake caused wasnt enough and they should pay him £200.
They should also pay interest on the balloon payment they collected in error because Mr P 
was deprived of that money.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
 pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
 calculate 8% simple interest per annum on the £10,935 payment they retained in 
error for 28 days and pay this to Mr P unless theyve already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman