DRN-3704982
The complaint
Ms G complains that AvantCredit of UK LLC lent to her when she could not afford it. 
What happened
Ms Gs application to AvantCredit did state that she needed the £6,000 loan in 2016 for debt 
consolidation. Recently AvantCredit has made submissions on that and I will address them 
later in this decision. 
The loan approved was for £6,000 on 31 January 2016 and was to be repaid over 60 months 
at just over £217 each month. Ms G made few repayments and it was sold to a third party in 
August 2017. Then a County Court Judgment (CCJ) was entered in relation to the debt in 
2018 and Ms G has said she has been paying £80 a month to pay that Judgment debt off. 
Ms G wants a refund of all interest and charges and the CCJ to be set aside. 
After the complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
adjudicators wrote her first view in which she said that AvantCredit should have done more 
before lending the £6,000 to Ms G but as she had no information about Ms Gs finances 
around January 2016 then she could not take it much further. 
Ms G sent a series of bank account statements which revealed gambling transactions. Our 
adjudicator revised her opinion and thought that had AvantCredit done further checks which 
likely would have included reviewing her bank account statements then it would have seen 
that Ms G had a gambling spend of about £1,000 a month and so our adjudicators opinion 
was that AvantCredit ought not to have lent.
Ms G agreed with that outcome. AvantCredit did not. It sent to us additional submissions 
relating to the original reason for Ms G saying she wanted the loan, which was to consolidate 
debt. It sent us a debt table it had created and made suppositions about what Ms Gs 
finances would have been like if she had paid down some aspects of her existing debt. It 
made some percentage calculations which I refer to later in this decision. It suggested that 
after the presumed debt consolidation then it calculated Ms G would have been in a better 
position. It did not address the gambling point. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CCJ
Ms G has said that she did not defend the proceedings. Her explanation in the complaint 
form is: 
I didn't even defend myself when I was taken to court for the debt and it went 
through by default. I have, since receiving the CCJ in 2018, been paying £80 to [third 
party named here] monthly and this is still ongoing.
So, it does seem likely that the court proceedings went through undefended and as such no 
hearing took place in which these issues surrounding irresponsible lending were aired. And 
so, I do consider we can proceed with the complaint in the way that we have. I say this for 
completeness.
And as for Ms Gs request that the CCJ is set aside  that is a matter on which Ms G will 
have to take independent legal advice and apply to the court for the judgment to be set aside 
if she establishes grounds. 
Irresponsible lending
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. I think 
the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, would those checks have shown that Ms G would have been able to do so?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
My first point is that this was a large loan and was due to be spread over a five year term. 
Ms G was not a particularly high earner at £1,550 a month. Looking at the information 
AvantCredit obtained before lending I do not think it did enough. I would have expected a full 
financial review to have taken place and Id consider that to have been proportionate 
considering the size of the loan and the loan term.
And the fact that AvantCredit ought to have done more in 2016 is borne out by its recent 
submissions to us where its own calculations placed Ms G in a position where she was, in 
2016, spending a high percentage of her income on debt  it said: 
the customer would be spending around £ 635.25 in total per month, which is 41% 
of the customers stated income of £1,550 which was verified by TAC.
And I agree with this. Ms G was clearly approaching AvantCredit to borrow to pay off other 
loans. The term debt consolidation can in some circumstances be a euphemism for 
borrowing to pay off other borrowing. When a professional lender carries out a 
creditworthiness assessment as the regulations require, identifying that a person in debt and 
with no available cash wishes to borrow to pay off borrowing, then that has to be a relevant 
factor in that assessment. 
And as well as that, the information AvantCredit had obtained included that she was over her 
limit on two credit cards and very close to her limit on a third credit card plus she had other 
loans outstanding. So, I would have expected additional checks to have been made before 
deciding on whether to lend to her responsibly.
But before I come to that, theres no evidence that has been produced to me to demonstrate 
that AvantCredit either arranged for the other debts to be paid down or had verified in some 
way that Ms G was going to do that. And its recent submissions are couched in terms which 
tell me that it was relying on Ms Gs own truthfulness and expression of an intention to pay 
down other debt. And for a £6,000 loan I dont think that was good enough. 
Often I see records from lenders to show me that it had paid down the other debt owners 
directly. But AvantCredit has not sent me any such records. It seems that the £6,000 was 
paid directly to Ms G.
AvantCredits recent submissions, on its own calculations and on its own assumptions as to 
which debt Ms G was intending to pay down, produces a percentage calculation it came to 
as to what Ms G would have been spending each month including its own loan. That 
percentage figure was almost 29% of her salary. And still I consider that too high. It has said 
to us recently: By consolidating their debts, the customer would reduce their unsecured credit 
commitment post loan to an estimated £447.66 (£393.51 of regular payments and 
£54.15 to make above minimum payments) which is 28.9% of the customers stated 
income.
Additional checks which may have included the review of bank statements. Even if it had not 
done that, still I consider that the almost 29% a month AvantCredit says Ms G would have 
been paying out on all her credit commitments would have been too high a percentage to be 
sustainable over a five year period. 
So whether AvantCredit saw the gambling or was likely to have seen the gambling still I think 
that the £6,000 loan ought not to have been approved because as AvantCredit has 
demonstrated, even 29% of her salary on all credit (after the presumed debt consolidation 
ahd taken place) still was too high for a 60 month loan.
And if it did carry out additional checks, as I think it ought to have done, then I do consider it 
highly likely it would have seen the gambling and betting transactions which did work out to 
be about £1,000 a month. In which case AvantCredit would not have lent due to 
unaffordability.
So that would have been a second reason not to have lent to Ms G the money. 
I uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that the loan was sold, was the subject of a CCJ and Ms G is paying a 
third party money each week to pay the judgment debt down.
I cannot make any directions as to what I think a third party should or should not do. My 
directions are aimed at AvantCredit. If it can bring that debt back in-house or buy the debt 
back it ought to do that. If it cant buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
AvantCredit should remove all interest, fees, and charges from the balance on the loan 
before it was sold in 2017, and treat any repayments made by Ms G as though they had 
been repayments of the principal. 
If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated should be used to repay 
any balance remaining. 
In relation to the sum outstanding then AvantCredit should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms G. But Id remind AvantCredit of its obligation to treat her fairly and 
with forbearance  if needed.
AvantCredit should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit file in relation 
to the loan. 
As I think its very unlikely from what I have been told that thered be any refund due to Ms G 
then the HMRC interest tax deduction stipulation may be academic. But if there is such a 
refund due then for any 8% paid on top of any refund, HM Revenue & Customs requires 
AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms G a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if she asks for one. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint in relation to the irresponsible lending. 
I direct that, so far as it is able, AvantCredit of UK, LLC does as I have directed above.
I make no decision in relation to the County Court Judgment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman