DRN-2936976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not offer them lower 
interest rates on their mortgage. As a result, they feel theyve paid the standard variable rate 
(SVR) for over 10 years unfairly, as theyve paid more than they needed to.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2008 after receiving advice 
from a broker. The mortgage was taken on an initial fixed interest rate of 5.77% which ended 
on 30 June 2010. Since then, Halifaxs SVR was applied to the mortgage until 2020 when 
Mr and Mrs B successfully applied for a new rate.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax. They were unhappy that Halifax hadnt offered 
them a new interest rate product sooner, and so they felt theyd overpaid over the last 10 
years as a result. Mr and Mrs B said theyd contacted Halifax several times over the years to 
ask about re-mortgaging, but they were always told they couldnt afford it. They also 
complained about the advice to take out an interest only mortgage. When Mr and Mrs B 
complained to Halifax, they were able to get a new interest rate product which has reduced 
their monthly payments by over £300. Mr and Mrs B are unhappy this hadnt happened 
sooner.
Mr and Mrs B asked our service to consider their complaint. Halifax said they had no record 
of Mr and Mrs B asking them about new interest rates since their mortgage had been on the 
SVR. They said theyd sent product maturity and rate change letters to Mr and Mrs B, which 
invited them to contact Halifax about new interest rate deals, but there was no evidence of 
them doing this. They said the mortgage is the responsibility of the borrower, Halifax do not 
pro-actively contact customers about new interest rate deals. The complaint about the 
advice to take out the interest only mortgage would be the responsibility of the broker that 
sold the mortgage.
Our investigator looked into things, and explained that because of the time limit rules set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), he could only consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
about what had happened from 2014 onwards. Having done so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. He explained that if Mr and Mrs B wanted a lower interest rate on their mortgage, 
it was their responsibility to ask Halifax about that, but there was no evidence of them doing 
so. As a result, he didnt think Halifax had treated them unfairly. He explained 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the sale of the mortgage would need to be directed to the 
broker that sold it, and isnt something he could consider against Halifax.
Mr and Mrs B were disappointed with the outcome. They said they had contacted Halifax 
over the years but didnt have any proof of the calls. They said their requests had been to re-
mortgage to repayment which they were told they couldnt afford, but they didnt realise they 
could have taken a lower interest rate without re-mortgaging. They were worried that as they 
hadnt specifically asked about interest rates, that had meant theyd lost out. They said 
Halifax should have checked with them that there wasnt more they could do.
As Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators outcome, the complaints been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained that because of the time limit rules, our service only has the 
power to investigate this complaint for the period of 2014 onwards. As neither party have 
disputed this, I will say no more on this here and proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
the complaint for the period that was made in time. Although I will refer to events that 
happened before 2014, where I think theyre a relevant consideration to the outcome.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer explained that once the initial fixed interest rate ended in 
2010, the mortgage would revert to Halifaxs SVR. So, Im satisfied that as a starting point, 
Halifax has applied the SVR to the mortgage in line with what was agreed when the 
mortgage was taken out.
But, once the mortgage had reverted to the SVR, Halifax have told us that there would have 
been other interest rate products available to Mr and Mrs B had they chosen to apply for 
them. Ive seen copies of the letters that Halifax say Mr and Mrs B would have received 
about their interest rate over the years. In particular, the letter sent in 2010 when 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage reverted to the SVR, as well as letters sent when the interest rate 
changed. These letters included information about what Mr and Mrs B could do if they 
wanted to find out more about the deals Halifax could offer on their mortgage, and directed 
them to their website or local branch to find out more.
There was no requirement on lenders to pro-actively reach out to borrowers on the SVR who 
may have been able to benefit from switching to a cheaper interest rate deal. And that wasnt 
general practice across the industry. Lenders are however required to give borrowers 
information that is clear, in order for them to make informed choices. Im satisfied that Halifax 
had written to Mr and Mrs B to tell them that other deals may have been available for them, 
and what they needed to do to find out more. It was then for Mr and Mrs B to act on this 
information, if they wanted to take out a cheaper rate.
Mr and Mrs B have told us they did contact Halifax on several occasions to ask about re-
mortgaging, as they wanted to switch to repayment as well as take out a lower interest rate. 
But they say Halifax told them that re-mortgaging would not be affordable for them. 
Mr and Mrs B have also sent us evidence of emails theyd received from brokers over the 
years confirming that they would struggle to obtain a repayment mortgage based on their 
circumstances at the time. So based on those emails, and Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, I am 
persuaded that they made enquiries about the options available to them from time to time 
over the years.
However, Mr and Mrs B have said that when they called Halifax, they asked about re-
mortgaging on a repayment basis. They say they think Halifax should have asked them more 
questions during these conversations, such as whether they have an existing mortgage with 
Halifax, and if so, whether they wanted to apply for a new product. This suggests to me that 
whilst Mr and Mrs B might have called Halifax to ask if they could afford a repayment 
mortgage, these conversations were made through general enquiries to Halifaxs mortgage 
team, rather than specifically in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs existing mortgage account. This is 
supported by the fact that Halifax have no record of any conversations, or applications, 
taking place in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage until 2020. I think during those 
conversations, unless Mr and Mrs B told Halifax they had an existing mortgage with them, or they asked about the options they had available to make things more affordable for them, Im 
not persuaded Halifax were in a position to do more to help.
Im pleased to hear Mr and Mrs B have been able to access a new interest rate product now, 
and this has made things more manageable for them. But whilst I appreciate they feel they 
should have benefitted from this sooner, Im not persuaded thats a result of unfair treatment 
from Halifax.
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reason Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman