DRN-3234531
The complaint
Mr S complains about what happened when his old credit card was being replaced by one
from Jaja Finance Ltd. Mr S said his pre-existing card was cancelled, even though hed been 
told he could keep using it.
  
What happened
Mr S used to have a credit card provided by a different bank (which I wont name here) but
then in late 2020, that bank wrote to him to say that the account was moving to a new
provider, Jaja.
Mr S wasnt given a clear time when he should expect to receive a new card, he was just
told that this would be sent to him some time after early October 2020. Mr S has shown us
correspondence which tells him his old card will continue to work until some time after the
new one has been issued, so he doesnt have to worry about this.
On 4 January, Mr S received a letter from a company he paid every month, saying that the
regular monthly payment that he made from his credit card had failed. Mr S then tried
repeatedly to find out from Jaja what had happened, and why he didnt yet have a new card.
He told us Jaja kept giving him different dates for when his new card had been issued.
Eventually it said that this new card had been activated, at the end of January, but Mr S
didnt have the card. So this card was blocked, and another card was issued, which Mr S
eventually got and activated in mid-February.
Mr S was very unhappy with what Jaja had done. He didnt think Jaja shouldve paid money
into his credit card account for this complaint without notifying him beforehand, and checking
if this was acceptable. Mr S said Jaja had never taken ownership and apologised for a block
being put on his old credit card, which stopped his regular monthly payment. And he thought
that normal procedure should be to notify him that a new card had been issued and was on
its way, so that he could tell Jaja if he didnt get the card in a reasonable time.
Jaja sent our service a complaint response letter. Mr S says that this letter was actually sent
in a different form, and had the name of the old bank that used to manage his credit card. Its
Mr Ss new card provider, Jaja, that is responsible for this complaint now, but I can see that
both the old and new card providers have tried to help Mr S with this problem.
This letter apologised that Mr S wasnt notified of the block on his card. Its not clear from the
letter that this refers to the block placed on Mr Ss existing card in January 2021, rather than
the block put in place in February, on the new card which he never received. And Jaja
doesnt appear to have apologised for having told Mr S that he could keep using his old card
until he got a new one, but then not allowing him to do so.
But when Jaja wrote to us, it set out more clearly what had happened. It said a new card had
been issued for Mr S on 29 December 2020, and sent to him then. It understood Mr S never
got this card. Jaja said when the new card was issued, the old card was stopped. Jaja said it
had upheld Mr Ss complaint on this basis  it was a technical error which meant his old card
was stopped early. The old card should still have been active for 30 days after the new card
was issued. Jaja said it had paid Mr S £50 in compensation, and offered an apology.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that we couldnt look
at issues Mr S had raised which were about complaint handling, so we couldnt look at what
Mr S said about Jaja failing to acknowledge his initial attempts at raising the complaint and
ignoring all follow up correspondence. And we also couldnt consider the point he raised
about Jaja having a complaints procedure it should follow.
Our investigator said she could see Jaja had told Mr S that he would get a new card
sometime after September 2020. She understood he was worried that this letter didnt tell
him exactly when he would get this new card, but she thought it was fair for Jaja to give him
a general update. She understood Jaja mistakenly cancelled Mr Ss old card when it issued
the new one.
Our investigator said Mr Ss replacement card was then also blocked on 1 February 2021
and a new card was ordered on the same day. She thought it was reasonable for Jaja to
block the account then. Mr Ss second new card was then delivered and activated on 15
February 2021.
Our investigator didnt think Jaja needed to pay more compensation.
Mr S thought our investigator hadnt quite understood his complaint. He wanted to stress that
he didnt know that a new card was on its way in December. And he said that Jaja had told
him monthly payments would automatically move, but they didnt. He set out for us the times
that hed tried to get Jaja to look into his complaint, and that it had repeatedly failed to help
him. He also set out the different things it had said about when his card was issued, and the
confused response to his complaint.
Our investigator said she appreciated Mr Ss frustrations, but still didnt think Jaja needed to
do more. Although she would have expected Mr Ss regular payment to transfer
successfully, she thought what Jaja had already paid covered the inconvenience of what
happened. And she thought Jajas final response letter was sufficient as an apology. 
Mr S said he couldnt see where Jaja had apologised, and our investigator sent him the
complaint response letter Ive referred to above. Mr S still thought that wasnt an apology for
putting a block on his original card.
As no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I can see that Mr S was sent correspondence telling him that a new card would be 
issued to him shortly. But these letters were sent around September 2020. And Mr 
Ss card wasnt issued until the end of December. So, whilst I wouldnt usually expect 
a card provider to write to its customers to say that a new card is on its way, I can 
see why Mr S is concerned that Jaja didnt do so in this case. It doesnt look like Mr S 
was expecting a new credit card to be sent out to him at the end of 2020.
Mr S didnt know a new card had been issued until he was notified that a regular 
monthly payment he made from the old card had failed. The company Mr S was 
paying referred to this payment as a direct debit, and Mr S and our investigator called it this too, but its not really a direct debit. Direct debits cant be set up on credit 
cards. This payment was made under a continuous payment authority.
Mr S said this payment didnt transfer, even once hed sorted out the problems and 
got a new card. I would usually expect a payment on a continuous payment authority 
to transfer to a new card. But its usually the card scheme provider (not Jaja, the 
other company that provides the infrastructure for card payments, and puts a small 
symbol on Mr Ss card) which arranges this. So I dont think its likely to be Jajas 
fault if this didnt happen here.
When Mr S was told that the payment had failed, he tried to contact Jaja. Hes told us 
that Jaja wasnt helpful, and wouldnt take a complaint. And hes shown us that he 
complained about conflicting information that Jaja gave him, quoting different dates 
for when his new card had been sent.
Our investigator didnt think we could look at how Jaja handled Mr Ss complaint, but 
I do think we can look at some of what Mr S would like us to consider here. We 
cannot tell Jaja that it should have a different complaint handling procedure  we 
arent a regulator, so we arent allowed to do that. But when Mr S has a problem with 
his card, and he tries to sort that out, then I think what Jaja does to help with this is 
sufficiently closely associated with a regulated activity for our service to be able to 
look at this. So I do think we can look at this.
Mr S has set out for us what Jaja said at different times. Jaja hasnt commented on 
this. But it does seem to have taken quite some time for Jaja to accept that Mr Ss 
new card had gone astray. As it now says the new card was sent at the end of 
December, I think Jaja should have realised that this card had gone astray before the 
start of February, when it was eventually blocked and reordered for Mr S.
I can also see that Jajas letter to Mr S wasnt terribly clear, and it doesnt clearly 
apologise for his pre-existing card being blocked. Having read Jajas evidence to our 
service, I think it does accept that this was a mistake, and that the mistake was its 
fault. But I can see why Mr S didnt think it had accepted that.
I do think that Jaja has provided Mr S with poor service, both by cancelling his pre-
existing card, then in how it responded when he asked it to help him to sort this out. I 
dont think Jaja had to discuss the amount of compensation it wanted to give Mr S 
before it paid this money. Its allowed to just pay what it thinks is the right amount of 
compensation  just as Mr S is then allowed to bring his complaint to us, if hes not 
happy with that.
But I also dont think that what Jaja has paid was the right amount of compensation. I 
dont think its quite enough to make up for all the things that have gone wrong here.
I think Jaja should pay Mr S £100 more now, to make a total of £150 compensation 
for this complaint. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this case. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Jaja didnt reply. Mr S sent a reply.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr S said that he agreed with my decision, but he would also require a letter of apology from 
Jaja. He said Id agreed that there was no clarity in Jajas letter to him, and he believed that 
Jaja wasnt apologising for putting a block on the original credit card he held when Jaja took 
over from his old bank, but had actually apologised for putting a block on his first new card, 
which never arrived. Mr J said that for the sake of clarity, it would make sense for Jaja to 
issue a letter of apology for putting a block on his original card. He said Jaja had never 
addressed this. 
I do think that Jajas letter to Mr S was unclear, but I dont think its right to say that Jaja has 
never addressed the problem of stopping his old card. It has clearly accepted, in its 
communications with our service, that it did block Mr Ss original card, and that this was a 
mistake. I know that Jaja hasnt said this directly to Mr S, but I would expect a business to 
communicate through our service, once a complaint is referred to us. So I do think that Jaja 
has said its sorry for this, and I dont think it has to write to Mr S separately to say that now.
Mr S also said he wanted Jaja to pay the award by cheque, rather than putting the money as 
a credit on his card. Ill leave it to our investigator to raise this with Jaja, I would expect Jaja 
to pay Mr S in the way he prefers if it is able to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Jaja Finance Ltd must pay Mr S £100, in addition to the £50 it has 
already paid.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman