DRN-2635322
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc asked unreasonable questions about a payment he 
wanted to make. He wants an apology and compensation for the inconvenience and stress 
he was caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why:
- Bank of Scotland has important legal and regulatory obligations. One of its 
responsibilities is to, where possible, protect customers from falling victim to financial 
harm, especially fraud and scams. So, to these ends, Bank of Scotland needs to 
monitor accounts and occasionally review transactions which have been made or its 
asked to make.
- To give Bank of Scotlands responsibilities effect, it may need to freeze an account or 
refuse a customers mandate until its satisfied by the information it receives. This is 
not uncommon in retail banking, although Mr M may not have experienced it before.
- A bank may need to ask questions to be satisfied about the source of funds held in 
an account, the purpose of a payment, or the nature of the relationship a payer has 
to a payee. Here, a payment Mr M wanted to make triggered Bank of Scotland into a 
review. So, Bank of Scotland quite rightly wanted to ask some questions. 
- Mr M says his privacy rights were breached. Hes previously referred to Article 8 of 
the Human Rights Act 1998. But Bank of Scotland are not a public body under the 
Act, and neither were they performing a public function. And Im satisfied the 
questions were proportionate to fulfil legitimate legal and regulatory purposes. Bank 
of Scotland could risk serious sanction if it didnt ask questions of this kind.
- Bank of Scotland were justified to first ask Mr M to come to branch with identification. 
Mr M failed account security on several occasions and Bank of Scotland needed to 
verify him as a customer. A bank may also want to speak to a customer in person to 
better meet its wide legal and regulatory obligations. Again, this kind of practice is not 
uncommon in retail banking.
- Bank of Scotland decided to allow Mr M access to his account after he said he 
couldnt attend branch due to his personal circumstances. He says Bank of Scotland 
werent really concerned about his account, otherwise it wouldnt have allowed him 
access. 
But I find Bank of Scotland reviewed its position after becoming aware of Mr Ms 
circumstances. It was up to Bank of Scotland to decide what risk it wanted to bear, 
considering what Mr M told them. I dont find this shows Bank of Scotlands previous 
decision was motivated by anything other than a legitimate purpose.
 
- Mr M is unhappy about the questions he was asked  and questions of this type can 
feel challenging. But I dont find Bank of Scotland were wrong or unprofessional to 
ask them, despite the way they caused Mr M to feel.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman