DRN-4020766
The complaint
Ms M and Mr R complain that they werent properly advised by Nationwide Building Society, 
when they remortgaged. They said if mortgage porting had been properly explained, then 
they would have selected a longer period for their fixed interest rate deal.
What happened
At the end of March 2022, Ms M and Mr R remortgaged with Nationwide. Ms M had an 
appointment with a mortgage advisor, then they chose a fixed interest rate of 2.19% for the 
next two years. They opted for this particular fixed rate period, because they had been 
talking about moving in two years time. 
Ms M dealt with the mortgage application interview, and she now complains that the 
mortgage advisor didnt explain that they could port their mortgage, if it was on a longer fixed 
rate period. Ms M said if this had been properly explained to her, she would have taken up 
the option of a three year fix, because they could get the same interest rate over three years. 
Ms M and Mr R at first also complained that they werent able to withdraw from their new 
fixed interest rate mortgage deal once it had started. Our investigator has explained there 
was no cooling off period available on this deal, and shown them that this was explained in 
the documents they were sent. I understand that Ms M and Mr R no longer pursue this 
complaint point, and I wont deal with this further here.
Nationwide said there was no recording of the call Ms M had with her mortgage advisor, but 
it did have the notes from the discussion. From those notes, Nationwide thought porting had 
been discussed with Ms M, but shed preferred to take a shorter fixed rate deal instead. 
Nationwide pointed to interview notes which said Ms M wanted to take out a two year fixed 
deal, because she and Mr R were likely to move in a couple of years time. The notes 
suggested Ms M was aware of the three year deal, at the same rate of interest, but she had 
opted for two years, so she would have the flexibility of moving, just in case Nationwide 
wasnt able to offer her and Mr R a mortgage then. So Nationwide said that porting was 
mentioned, but Ms M didnt want to be in a position where shed be liable for an Early 
Repayment Charge if she and Mr R had to apply for a mortgage with another lender. 
Nationwide said the advisors notes also record that Ms M didnt want to pay an Early 
Repayment Charge. And finally, Nationwide said the mortgage offer it sent to Ms M and 
Mr R explained how porting works. So Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Nationwide had 
made a mistake, and he said Ms M and Mr R had then chosen to go ahead with a two-year 
fixed rate. Our investigator thought it was likely that Ms M had changed her mind later, 
because of the interest rate rise and because of advice shed received from a friend. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said she had complained when she found out about porting, and 
realised that during the mortgage application, she hadnt been told about this. She said if this 
had been discussed, then she would have agreed a longer term, because if shed decided to 
move before the end of the term she could very likely have just ported her mortgage over 
and not had to pay any early exit fees anyway. 
Ms M said if this had been explained so she fully understood it, then that would have dealt 
with any of her concerns around exit fees. She said she now felt this was a crucial part of her 
mortgage, which hadnt been explained. And she said shed have been concerned about this 
even if interest rates hadnt since risen. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ms M said that she felt that porting being just mentioned wasnt satisfactory. She said that 
the advisor should have made sure she understood this, and avoiding exit fees wouldnt 
have been a concern if shed understood the porting process. But all her advisor said was 
that if she moved, porting wasnt guaranteed, and nothing else was said. 
As Ms M has mentioned, the call with her mortgage advisor wasnt recorded, but notes were 
made of points discussed. I think two points in these notes are relevant to this complaint. Ill 
quote these just as they were written at the time.
preference to fixed for 2 years as feel this is when will move home once son is settled 
into school. aware rate for 3 years is the same but wanted 2 years for the flexibilty of 
moving just in case we cant offer a cmortgage fr them
discussed paying a fee and didnt want to pay a fee at all felt quite strongly about this
I think its likely, from the notes Ive seen above, that porting was discussed in this mortgage 
application. Ill explain each of the conclusions Ive drawn, in turn.
It seems likely, from these notes and from what Ms M herself has said, that the advisor did 
explain that her new mortgage was capable of being moved to a different property, while it 
was on a fixed interest rate, but that this would be subject to Nationwide being happy to lend 
on the new property (because Ms M told us the advisor said if I move porting my mortgage 
isnt guaranteed). 
And it also seems likely that the advisor told Ms M that if she did buy a new house, and 
applied to port her mortgage to a different property, she would still need to apply for any 
additional lending. And if this was turned down, Ms M would need to pay the Early 
Repayment Charge on the mortgage, and get lending elsewhere, if she wanted to go ahead 
with the move (because the advisors own notes say Ms M didnt want to take out a longer 
deal just in case we cant offer a cmortgage fr them).
It further seems likely that Ms M preferred not to go ahead with this (because of the section 
Ive quoted above, as well as because the advisors notes also say Ms M didnt want to pay 
a fee at all felt quite strongly about this).I know Ms M now feels strongly that she would have preferred a longer fixed interest rate 
deal, and that if shed understood the porting process, avoiding early exit fees wouldnt have 
been a concern for her. But I think that the issue of paying early exit fees, or an Early 
Repayment Charge, as Nationwide calls it, must always be a concern when someones 
weighing up whether to take a longer fixed interest rate deal, but also anticipating moving 
within the time that deal is current. Thats because these fees would apply if porting wasnt 
possible for any of the reasons Ive set out above.
I would also note, as Nationwide has flagged, that the mortgage Ms M and Mr R took out can 
be ported. And that means there are short notes explaining porting on the mortgage offer 
they received. The covering letter they received also summarises porting. It says You can 
port your mortgage, which means if you move home you can take your mortgage product 
with you, as long as we are able to lend to you at that point. 
So I dont think that Nationwide let Ms M down, because it didnt seek to persuade her to 
take a mortgage which could be ported, instead of one which had the security of no fees at 
the time she was thinking of moving home. Ive not been able to conclude, on the basis of 
the above, that Nationwide has provided Ms M with a mortgage recommendation that wasnt 
suitable for her, or that it failed to explore a mortgage option which might have been a better 
fit for her. I know that Ms M feels strongly about this, but I dont think that its most likely that 
Nationwide made a mistake in the mortgage it recommended to her. 
I know that Ms M and Mr R will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman