DRN-3711598
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs P say Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly closed their currency account and 
subsequently provided inaccurate information and unacceptable service as they tried to 
resolve this. 
What happened
On 6 March 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr O and Mrs P explaining what they needed to do to 
keep their currency account active. Mr O says he visited a branch three days later with the 
documentation required and completed a dormancy form. But the bank has no record of this 
and it closed the account on 11 May 2020. 
After opening a new current account in May 2022, Mr O noticed their currency account 
wasnt showing on his internet banking. It was at this point he discovered it was no longer 
active. Mr O contacted the bank via its webchat and the phone but received uncertain and 
incorrect advice about how he could now access the funds in the dormant account. They 
later opened a new currency account. Mr O was very unhappy with the service on these 
interactions.
Barclays accepted its service had not been of the standard Mr O and Mrs P were entitled to 
expect. It apologised, said feedback had been given to the staff involved and offered £100 
compensation. It opened a new currency account for Mr O and Mrs P on 17 June 2022 and 
received their documents for the dormancy claim on 22 August 2022. 
Unhappy with this response Mr O and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service, they had 
told Barclays they wanted £200 compensation.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. She felt Barclays settlement offer was fair and 
recognised it had provided poor service. But she said the bank had closed the currency 
account in line with the terms of the account and given the required notice. The bank has no 
record that Mr O and Mrs P visited the branch in March 2020. She did not find that the lack 
of access to the money since May 2020, without a four-month delay, had impacted Mr O and 
Mrs P as there was no evidence they had tried to withdraw or deposit funds.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr O asked for an ombudsmans review. He felt important 
facts had been missed. He asked if we had checked with the branch about their visit and if 
all webchats and calls been reviewed. He said they are seeking £400 compensation, and 
say had they made 8-10 separate complaints, given all the errors, they would have received 
this. He also asked why Barclays sent a recent letter about the dormant account in his sole 
name when it was a joint account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything Mr Os sent us when looking at this complaint. 
If I havent directly mentioned something thats happened or responded to each point raised 
it isnt because I havent considered it. I have and I mean no discourtesy by this. But in line 
with our role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I am 
focusing here on the key issues that I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint. 
Similarly, I have decided what evidence should be required and reviewed as our rules allow.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  in other words what I think is most likely 
given the available evidence.
I am not upholding Mr O and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Closing the currency account
Barclays closed Mr O and Mrs Ps currency account in the line with the terms they agreed to 
and its internal dormancy policy and process. I can find no error there. I dont doubt that     
Mr Os testimony about his branch visit after receiving of the letter in March 2020 is his 
honest recollection. But even if the bank had a record of this visit, I havent seen that they 
met all the conditions in the letter. As well as asking for the identification documents that    
Mr O says he presented in the branch, the letter said:
You need to hold a sterling current account in the same name
We can see that you don't currently hold a sterling current account in the same name as your 
currency account, which Is required as a condition of the account. To be able to continue to use your 
currency account you'll need to:
 Align the names on both your sterling and currency accounts or
 Open a new sterling current account in the same name(s) as your currency account (subject to 
eligibility)
You can do this by visiting any branch with identification. If you're adding or removing a party from an 
account, all parties need to be present.
If you don't amend or open a sterling account by 10 May 2020 you'll be unable to reactivate your 
currency account and reinstate the functionality in the future until this has been done.
And I have seen no evidence Mr O and Mrs P aligned the name(s) on the sterling account 
which was a condition of keeping the account open. Barclays has confirmed Mr O and Mr P 
held no other accounts with it at that time. So it seems Barclays did not have everything it 
required to keep the account active.
The subsequent service
It is not in dispute that Barclays gave conflicting information to Mr O. It has apologised for 
this and given feedback to the teams involved. Barclays provided the webchat transcripts. I 
note Mr O was particularly unhappy with the tone and attitude of an adviser on one call but 
unfortunately Barclays has been unable to locate that call. However, as it has accepted that 
its service fell short of the required standards, I dont think this detrimentally impacts the 
outcome of the complaint.
Barclays has also apologised to us that the August 2022 letter sent by its dormancy team 
was solely addressed to Mr O. But as joint identification was provided this error did not 
cause any delay or loss to Mr O and Mr P. So I think an apology is sufficient. Barclays 
should make this directly in writing to Mr O and Mrs P.What remains in dispute is what level of compensation for the service failures is fair and 
reasonable. Mr O has set out in detail what he expects and why. But I am satisfied the £100 
proposed by the bank is proportionate. It is not our role to penalise a bank for its errors, 
rather to make an award that recognises any trouble and upset or financial loss caused. I 
think whilst Mr O was inconvenienced by the banks substandard service, equally they were 
not without access to an account they relied on. It had been closed legitimately and Mr O 
and Mrs P had not realised this for almost two years. I think its reasonable to expect in these 
circumstances that they would need to spend some time investigating what to do next  
albeit that they should have been able to do this in one accurate and satisfactory call or 
webchat. 
I will leave it with Mr O and Mrs P to decide if they wish to accept the £100 payment. They 
should contact Barclays directly to let it know. 
Mr O has raised other issues with this service (problems with online banking activation and 
the bank addressing Mrs P incorrectly) but as our adjudicator has explained these are being 
considered separately.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr O and Mrs Ps complaint, but Barclays Bank UK PLC must now write 
to Mr O and Mrs P to apologise for failing to add Mrs P to the letter dated 12 August 2022. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman