DRN-3841037
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their claim for 
subsidence on their home insurance policy.
Mr L and Mrs S have been represented by a third party throughout this complaint. However 
for ease of reading all references to Mrs S include the actions of both Mr L, Mrs S and their 
representative.
What happened
Mrs S bought a new home in 2006. She had home insurance with Aviva to cover the 
property. In October 2020 she made a claim after noticing cracking to the external and 
internal walls of the property. 
Aviva sent a loss adjuster and an arborist to the property to inspect the damage and 
subsequently declined the claim. It said the foundations of the property were only built to a 
depth of 1,800mm when new home building guidance says that they should be 2,400mm 
based on the nearby trees. It said there was an exclusion in the policy for faulty 
workmanship and as the foundations hadnt been built to the requirements in the relevant 
guidelines, this would apply.
Mrs S complained but Aviva didnt change its position. So she asked this service to 
investigate. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said this service would only 
say it were fair for Aviva to rely on the new home guidelines if the property had been built by 
a builder registered to the new home provider that issues those guidelines. Otherwise they 
wouldnt be required to follow these, and instead would be bound by the building regulations 
at the time. She said Aviva had been unable to show this was the case so hadnt fairly 
applied the exclusion. She said Aviva should therefore consider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
Mrs S accepted our investigators outcome. However Aviva didnt. As agreement hasnt been 
reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons:
When an insurer considers a claim, it is for it to prove that an exclusion applies if it 
chooses to apply one. Here, Aviva has relied on the exclusion for faulty workmanship 
as it says the foundations didnt meet the requirements in new home guidelines. 
These guidelines are in place specifically for builders registered to one of the leading 
new home builders, in order to meet the requirements for a warranty it provides with 
new homes. 
This service would only expect these guidelines to be the measure of whether 
foundations were poorly built where the builder was registered by the company who 
issue the guidelines. As otherwise there is no requirement for the builder to meet 
these guidelines, instead the relevant requirements would be the building regulations 
at the time. 
Weve asked Aviva to provide evidence that the builder was registered to the new 
home builder and that one of its warranties was issued with the property, but its been 
unable to do so. 
Building regulations that were in place at the time require the foundations to have 
been a minimum of 750mm, increasing to take into account vegetation and soil type. 
As the foundations of Mrs S property were 1,800mm Im satisfied they meet these 
requirements. 
Aviva has argued that the regulations at the time state that the building should be 
constructed so that ground movement caused by shrinkage of the subsoil will not 
impair the stability of any part of the building. It says as the stability of the property 
has been impaired the build hasnt met these requirements. However I dont agree 
this is a fair measure, as this would mean that regardless of the depth of the 
foundations, if the building encounters any issues with stability then Aviva could say it 
hadnt been built correctly, which isnt a fair application of the regulations. 
As the onus is on Aviva to prove an exclusion applies, I dont think its done enough 
to show that the building didnt meet the required standards at the time. As it met the 
minimum requirements contained in the relevant building regulations and it has 
provided no evidence that the builders were required to meet the new homes 
guidance.
Additionally to this, I note in the arborists report that while roots were found at a 
depth of 2,400mm, they were also found at as shallow a depth as 1,400mm. So even 
if the foundations were built to the new homes guidance, Ive not seen enough to 
convince me that this would have prevented the subsidence.
And further, the property was built in 2006 and the first cracks were noticed in 2020. 
This means the building stood without issue for 14 years. Had the foundations been 
unsuitable, Id have expected the building to have experienced problems much 
earlier than this.
For these reasons I dont think Aviva has done enough to show that the exclusion for poor 
workmanship would fairly apply in the circumstances. I therefore agree with our investigator 
that it should consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, without applying this 
exclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr L and Mrs S complaint and require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to consider their claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, without 
applying the exclusion for faulty workmanship. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman