DRN-4451465
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) caused avoidable delays to the transfer 
of his pension. He also complains that he received a lack of updates during the transfer. 
What happened
Mr C wanted to transfer the benefits from his former employers Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) to his Personal Pension (PP) with SW. He asked his former employer how 
he could do this on 22 July 2022. And chased it several times during August 2022.
On 5 September 2022, Mr Cs former employer emailed him to tell him to ask his new 
pension provider to submit a transfer request to it to start the transfer process. The same 
day, SW said it received an online mail request that contained a completed transfer request 
to be performed through the Origo system. 
Mr C asked his former employer questions about his transfer during September 2022. On 14 
September 2022, it said that once itd heard from SW, it would send it the transfer quote and 
the necessary discharge forms. And on 23 September 2022, it told Mr C that it was waiting 
to hear back from SW. And that once it had, it would transfer the money. 
On 20 October 2022, Mr C called SW to chase the transfer. He was concerned about the 
delays in processing his transfer request. And felt hed had to contact SW for updates. So he 
raised a complaint.
On 24 November 2022, SW wrote to Mr C to tell him that hed stated other, instead of the 
providers name, in the transfer application form. It also told him that the transfer from his 
OPS couldnt be completed electronically. So it needed signed and dated discharge forms to 
be completed.
On 16 December 2022, Mr C called SW to ask about the transfer paperwork, and to check 
what it still needed. On the same day, he called his former employer to tell it that SW had 
received the discharge form, but that it had incorrectly completed it. He told it that SW 
needed it to send the form back with the correct name on it. And asked it to do this quickly.
On 5 January 2023, Mr Cs former employer sent SW his transfer value quotation. It said that 
if Mr C wanted to proceed with the transfer, SW should arrange for the enclosed forms to be 
completed and returned. 
On 9 January 2023, SW received the completed forms for the transfer but didnt process 
them until 9 February 2023.
SW issued its final response to the complaint on 16 January 2023. It upheld the complaint. It 
acknowledged itd caused unnecessary delays. SW offered Mr C £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. And £50 because itd taken longer than it should to 
issue its final response. 
On 23 January 2023, Mr C wrote to SW with the documents for his pension transfer. But the 
forms hed attached hadnt been completed. 
Mr C emailed his former employer on 8 March 2023. He said SW had told him that itd 
received all the documentation needed. And that itd sent a chaser email for payment on 27 
February 2023 asking his OPS to make the payment into his PP. He asked it when this 
would be done. 
Mr Cs former employer replied to Mr C on 17 March 2023. It said that the forms hed sent it 
hadnt been completed. It asked Mr C to ensure the relevant documents were completed and 
returned to it. 
On 30 March 2023, Mr Cs former employer confirmed itd received all the documents.
On 11 April 2023, SW wrote to Mr Cs former employer to tell it that it had posted completed 
transfer forms to it on 9 February 2023. SW asked for confirmation that these had been 
received. And for an update.
Mr Cs former employer replied the same day to tell SW that the transfer payment would 
shortly be made. It said £7,777.06 would be transferred. And on 12 April 2023, it transferred 
that amount to SW. 
Mr C emailed his former employer on 14 and 18 April 2023 to tell it the money hadnt 
reached his account. And to ask when he would receive it. It replied on 18 April 2023 to tell 
him the money had been credited to the bank account details itd been provided with. It 
referred him to SW. 
On 26 April 2023, Mr Cs OPS sent him proof that itd made the transfer payment to SW. SW 
returned the payment to Mr Cs OPS because no valid payment reference number had been 
included. 
On 13 June 2023, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He was unhappy that SW 
hadnt kept him updated about his transfer. And felt itd caused avoidable delays to it. He 
also raised another complaint with SW.
SW emailed Mr Cs former employer on 12 July 2023 to tell it that it had returned the funds. 
It told this service that although the funds had been returned at the end of April 2023, itd 
failed to communicate this until 12 July 2023. SW asked the OPS to re-send the funds with a 
valid payment reference number.
On 7 August 2023, Mr Cs OPS sent the funds to SW again. But they were returned again on 
18 August 2023 because there was still no valid reference number. SW told Mr Cs OPS 
about this on 7 and 21 September 2023.
On 4 October 2023, SW issued a further final response to the complaint. It apologised for the 
delays to the transfer. And acknowledged that he hadnt received the level of service he 
should have. It offered Mr C a further £100 for the inconvenience hed been caused. SW 
also confirmed that it had now applied the £7,777.06 itd received to Mr Cs PP. Also on 4 
October 2023, SW issued its post sales correspondence which confirmed itd received the 
payment on 8 September 2023.
Mr C told this service that he didnt think the compensation SW had offered was sufficient. 
He said chasing the transfer had caused him over a year of stress. And that hed spent 
countless hours on the phone to both SW and his former employer. He felt that £1,000 
compensation would be a fair amount. Our investigator asked SW for its complaint file. When it sent it, it said that - having 
reconsidered the whole process - it felt itd caused avoidable delays to the transfer due to a 
lack of communications. But it hadnt yet addressed the financial impact this mightve had on 
Mr C. 
SW said it hadnt responded to the original request made on 5 September 2022 until 24 
November 2022. And that itd then caused further delays when it didnt issue information 
after receiving paperwork on 9 January 2023 until 9 February 2023. It said itd also failed to 
make Mr Cs OPS aware that itd returned the funds within a reasonable time frame. 
SW proposed to put things right by using 8 September 2023 - the date itd invested the 
transferred funds - and pushing this date back by the total period of the delay itd caused. It 
said this was 150 working days. Therefore it felt the transfer shouldve been completed on 6 
February 2023, but for the delays itd caused. 
SW told this service it felt the £250 distress and inconvenience payments itd made to Mr C, 
plus the £50 itd paid him for taking longer than it should to issue its first final response, were 
reasonable under the circumstances, because it hadnt caused all of the delays hed faced. 
Our investigator felt that SWs new offer to put things right was fair. He agreed itd caused 
total avoidable delays of 150 working days. And also felt that the compensation itd paid Mr 
C for distress and inconvenience was fair.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that the £300 hed been paid in total wasnt 
enough for the stress the issued had caused him. He also wanted to know exactly how much 
financial redress SW was going to pay him. Our investigator explained that SW wouldnt 
decide that amount, but would calculate it based on the dates outlined.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that SWs most 
recent settlement offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision.
SW doesnt dispute that it caused unnecessary delays. So I first considered the extent of 
those delays. 
Avoidable delays caused by SW
Based on the testimony and evidence provided by SW, Mr C and his former employer, I 
detailed in the background section of this decision what happened when.
Ive gone on to consider if there were any points when SW couldve acted more quickly to 
progress the transfer.
From what Ive seen, SW received the transfer request on 5 September 2022. But it didnt 
tell Mr C that the transfer application form had been completed incorrectly until 24 November 
2022. I consider that SW caused an unnecessary delay over a period of 57 working days 
here.Then once SW had received the completed transfer forms on 9 January 2023, it didnt 
process them until 9 February 2023. I can see that this is a delay of 23 working days. And 
when Mr Cs former employer failed to put the correct policy reference number on the 
transfer forms, SW didnt tell it what had happened until 12 July 2023, despite returning the 
funds on 26 April 2023. This caused a further delay of 56 working days. Finally, SW failed to 
notify Mr Cs former employer that itd returned the funds again on 18 August 2023 until 7 
September 2023. This caused a further 14 working day delay.
In total, the total avoidable delay attributable to SW is 150 working days. And I agree with 
SW that the transfer shouldve completed on 6 February 2023, but for the avoidable delays it 
caused.
From what Ive seen, there were also a number of avoidable delays caused by Mr Cs former 
employer. My decision cant consider these. So Ive gone on to consider whether SW has 
done enough in respect of the distress and inconvenience the avoidable delays its 
responsible for have caused Mr C. Ive also taken into account SWs lack of communication 
with Mr C over the transfer period.
Distress and inconvenience
I understand that SW has paid Mr C a total of £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its avoidable delays, and its failure to provide him with updates about his 
transfer, caused. It also paid him £50 for the length of time it took to issue its first final 
response letter.
Mr C felt that his transfer had dragged on for 16 months. He said hed spent hours on the 
phone with SW trying to rectify the situation. He said it hadnt acted proactively to progress 
his transfer. He didnt think that the money SW had paid him was enough for the stress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. 
Ive considered the impact the transfer delays has had on Mr C. While I understand why hes 
frustrated the transfer took so long, and required him to chase SW, I consider that the offer it 
has now made will fairly put things right. I say this in part because the evidence shows that 
SW didnt cause all of the delay or inconvenience Mr C suffered. As I noted above, its 
responsible for 150 working days of the delay.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr C back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for the avoidable delays SW caused. I think this wouldve 
meant Mr Cs transferred funds wouldve been invested 150 working days earlier. That is, 6 
February 2023.
Any loss Mr C has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension at the date of my final decision on the basis that itd been invested 150 working days 
earlier and subtracting the current value at the date of my final decision of the pension from 
this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr C has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Details of this calculation should be provided to Mr C in a clear and simple format. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Scottish Widows Limited must 
take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman