DRN-2201484
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined her mobile phone 
insurance claim and about its service. 
What happened
Mrs D had insurance for her mobile phone through her bank account, the insurer is 
Assurant. She claimed on-line for her lost work mobile phone.
Assurant spoke to Mrs D several times about how the loss occurred then declined the claim. 
It said Mrs Ds testimony was inconsistent and it couldnt confirm what she was saying was 
correct.
Mrs D complained to us. In summary she said:
she last remembered seeing the phone on her bedroom cabinet on 9 June 2019 
she phoned Assurant to make a claim but it kept calling her while she was at work  
even though she told it she couldnt talk at work
Assurant questioned her like a criminal, its representative made her lose her words 
and put doubt in her mind trying to remember what happened especially as she had 
two phones
shes left paying for a phone on a monthly contract without having a phone which is a 
real financial burden 
she feels strongly that Assurant treated her very unfairly.
Mrs D wants Assurant to cover her claim by either giving her a like for like phone or the 
money to buy a phone herself.
Our investigator thought Assurant acted unfairly by declining the claim. Mrs D had told him 
she suffers with vertigo and he thought that condition may have contributed to why Mrs D 
was confused about when and where shed lost her phone.
Assurant disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said:
when Mrs D completed her claim application on-line she put that she couldnt 
remember how the loss had happened as she was celebrating and had drunk a little 
too much
subsequently shed given conflicting explanations about when and where shed last 
seen her phone
it had no medical evidence that Mrs D had vertigo or about the conditions effects.
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably declined the claim and treated 
Mrs D fairly, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Assurant relied on the following policy term to decline the claim:
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and 
to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or 
the payment of your claim.
Ive seen Assurants system note of Mrs Ds on-line claim application of 12 June 2019. She 
was asked to provide details of what happened and she replied Cant remember. I was 
celebrating and had drunk a little too much. She said she had the phone with her at the time 
of the incident and she was last aware she had the phone on 11 June 2019. Assurant spoke 
to Mrs D about the claim several times. The call recordings are no longer available but 
Assurant has notes of the calls. In summary they show the following:
on 14 June Mrs D returned Assurants call. She said she shared the phone with her 
husband and neither had used or seen it since 5 June 2019, when it was placed on 
her bedroom cabinet
on 20 June Mrs D confirmed she last used the phone on 5 June 2019 and she 
normally used another as her main phone. The lost phone was used by her and her 
husband to call abroad and mostly used for work purposes. She said she last saw 
the phone on her bedroom cabinet a few days before she made the claim. She said 
she had logged the claim on-line while a little drunk. She was at work and said she 
would call back later
on 24 June Mrs D contacted Assurant. She said she didnt know why shed said she 
had drunk a little too much on the claim form, she had a drink but wasnt drunk. She 
said shed last used the phone on 5 June 2019 to make a call to her husband and 
then put it on the bedroom cabinet. She said she remembered last seeing the phone 
on the cabinet on 9 June 2019, but only realised on 10 June 2019 it was missing 
when she went to get it. She then said she definitely remembered picking up the 
phone on the morning of the 10 June and putting it in her handbag to go shopping. 
Assurant told Mrs D that was different to what shed said earlier in the call and Mrs D 
said she didnt know if shed picked up the phone but probably did as it wasnt on the 
cabinet. Assurant told Mrs D she was changing the details, it couldnt confirm which 
information was correct and it was closing the claim.
I think Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in saying Mrs D gave conflicting information. 
Shed given substantively different information for when and where she last saw the phone. 
Mrs D told our investigator that she has vertigo. I havent seen any medical evidence from 
her GP to support that or medical evidence that the vertigo means Mrs D get confused about 
such matters.Im satisfied Assurant can fairly say that from what Mrs D said it hasnt got a clear 
understanding of what happened to the phone. Assurant can fairly and reasonably rely on 
the above policy term not to accept the claim.
I can see from the call notes that Assurant called Mrs D a couple of times at work but theres 
no evidence that it pressed her to continue talking when she said she wasnt able to. In two 
of the three calls above Mrs D called Assurant.
Mrs D is unhappy with how Assurant questioned her. As the call recordings arent available 
I cant comment on exactly how the conversations went. But where an insurer needs to 
assess to see if it will accept a claim its reasonable for it to ask a consumer questions about 
how the loss happened. If a consumer gives conflicting information its reasonable for an 
insurer to pick up on that and ask further questions to try to clarify what happened.
I know Mrs D will be disappointed by my provisional decision. But on the evidence I have 
Assurant fairly and reasonably declined her claim in these circumstances and treated her 
fairly.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Mrs D didnt agree. In summary she said: shed been honest with Assurant and it was 
insulting and degrading how shed been made to feel because she couldnt remember what 
happened; it was insulting that Assurant said shed been drinking; Assurant unreasonably  
badgered her on the phone while she was at work and said she couldnt email it; she would 
ask her doctor to confirm she had vertigo if I wanted her to.
We explained to Mrs D that it was for her to decide is shed like to get evidence from her 
doctor but the evidence would need to show her vertigo caused her to become confused 
about such matters for it to potentially affect the outcome of my decision. We havent 
received  any evidence from Mrs Ds doctor.
Assurant said it had nothing to add
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds response hasnt changed my mind. I dont uphold this complaint. 
Mrs D says shed been honest in saying she couldnt remember what happened to the 
phone. But she didnt just say that to Assurant. She told it substantively conflicting 
information about when and where she last saw the phone. I still think Assurant fairly said 
Mrs D hadnt given it a clear understanding of what happened to the phone. For the reasons 
in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied Assurant fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim.
Assurant didnt say Mrs D had been drinking. Its system notes of the calls and her on-line 
application show what Mrs D told Assurant about the matter. As Ive said, Ive seen no 
evidence to support that Assurant pressurised Mrs D into speaking to it while she was at 
work. And if Assurant did say it wanted to speak to Mrs D, not email, that was reasonable in 
the circumstances. I still think Assurant treated Mrs D fairly and reasonably.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman