DRN-4383906
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his property insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
because it has accused him of not giving it material evidence when his policy with it was 
arranged in 2014 and, as a result, has voided his policy. Also that Admiral had said Mr C had 
acted fraudulently in respect of the claim.
What happened
Mr C arranged cover in November 2014. He agreed to the following statement:
[that he] currently reside[s] in [the] property which is furnished for normal living purposes 
with connected utilities, or will do so within two weeks of [the] policy start date.
In early 2015 Mr C found his house had been damaged. He made a claim to Admiral. He 
advised hed come home from a weekend away to find lead taken from his roof and copper 
piping missing from inside the house. Admiral began investigating the claim. It had a number 
of concerns initially, later focussing on whether Mr C had been living in the home. It voided 
Mr Cs policy.
Mr C complained to this service and I issued a decision on his complaint in 2017. I felt 
Admirals enquiries had been reasonable  but that it hadnt established anything more than 
concerns. As such I felt its voidance was unfair and unreasonable. I required Admiral to 
reinstate the policy and consider the claim. Mr C accepted my decision.
Admiral asked Mr C for further evidence to show hed lived at the property. Its enquiries 
progressed over the next four years. In July and August 2021 Admiral told Mr C it was, 
again, voiding his policy. It said he had failed to give it material evidence when arranging the 
cover  namely that he wasnt living in the house. It said that Mr C had, therefore, breached 
a number of policy conditions, including the fraud condition, which was why it was voiding 
the policy. The letters also explained that, regarding the claim itself, Admiral felt that Mr C 
had acted fraudulently. The letter did not reference any terms related to the events the policy 
covered, nor any related exclusions. It confirmed it wouldnt be paying anything for the claim. 
Mr C made a further complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Admiral confirmed its 
position, referencing the July and August 2021 letters, in a final response of January 2022. 
Our Investigator, commenting on fraud and misrepresentation legislation, felt Admiral had 
acted fairly and reasonably. So he did not uphold the complaint. Mr C remained unhappy 
and his complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I wasnt persuaded by Admirals voidance or fraud arguments. So I felt the complaint should 
be upheld with Admiral putting things right, including both settling the clam and paying £500 
compensation.
Admiral did not reply to my findings. Mr C was happy with them, but asked about his costs 
incurred for having done some repairs at the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I think Admiral had some concerns which it reasonably wanted to investigate. But I think the 
outcome it reached was unfair and unreasonable. Ive explained my views below, focussing 
on the key arguments only, along with comment as to what I think must be done now to put 
things right.
Voidance
I must focus, in this decision, on what happened after my previous decision of 2017. Admiral 
has had a substantial amount of time since to gather new evidence to present a case for 
voiding Mr Cs policy. During which time it also took legal advice. And yet I note that in its 
July and August 2021 letters, telling Mr C of its final position on this, it hasnt actually set out 
an argument for voidance on the basis of misrepresentation. Instead Admiral said Mr C 
made a misrepresentation to it when arranging the policy, which meant he had breached a 
number of policy terms, which was why it was voiding the cover. The problem here for 
Admiral is that the policy terms dont allow for voidance  voiding cover means the policy 
never existed, so the terms of the policy cant be relied upon. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, I find Admirals position and argument for voidance to be unfair and 
unreasonable. Im going to require it to reinstate the cover, again, for the year of the loss. 
And, given all its chances and the fact were now nine years on from when the policy was 
arranged, Im not going to allow it any further chance to review or dispute its liability for the 
cover as a whole. Im going to require it to accept liability for this cover. 
Fraud
Largely the claim fell away because of the voidance. But I intend to require Admiral to 
reinstate the cover. And I note that in the July letter Admiral did say that it thought there had 
been fraudulent activity regarding the claim too  in respect of disturbance allowance and 
detail Mr C has provided about his finances. And the same letter also referenced Mr C 
having breached the policy term for fraud. I think then that I reasonably need to give some 
consideration to Admirals concern in this respect.
However, in doing so I reasonably note that Admiral has not, in either of these letters or 
indeed in its final response letter, explicitly set out any argument of fraud. In particular it 
hasnt specified what benefit Mr C was trying to gain from the policy which he was not 
otherwise entitled to receive. The detail about bank statements and finances doesnt seem, 
on the face of it even, to relate specifically to any policy entitlement. In terms of disturbance 
allowance and fraud, all Admiral said was: 
We have previously highlighted to you that given the evidence that is currently in Admirals
possession, we are gravely concerned that you have been residing at [property B] both prior
to the inception of your Home Insurance policy and during the policy term. If this is the case, 
we considered [sic] that your claim for disturbance allowance was fraudulent and an 
exaggeration of the claim. 
Admiral, in the rest of its letter explains what other evidence it has which makes it think Mr C 
was living at property B, and/or not at property A. And, as Ive noted it also listed what it felt 
were relevant policy conditions  such as that for fraud. But it hasnt shown or sought to rely 
on any wording which might apply for DA payments. Nor has it set out any other policy terms  such as relating to the specific events covered by the policy and their relevant exclusions. 
As such, Admiral has not, in my view, set out a clear argument for fraud either in relation to 
the disturbance allowance or Mr Cs financial information. 
An allegation of fraud can have substantial consequences for a policyholder. As such this 
service expects an insurer making such an allegation to do so clearly. Doing so allows its 
policyholder a reasonable chance to defend their position, not least as they can fully 
understand the terms upon which the accusation is based. An allegation of fraud, simply put 
has to link back to a policy entitlement and it is up to the insurer, Admiral, to show that. Here,   
despite all of its years of consideration and even though legal advice was sought, Admiral, in 
my view, has not done that. Its not for me to do that for it. I dont find its allegation of fraud 
was fairly and reasonably made.  
The claim
With my above findings in mind regarding voidance and fraud, I need to think about what 
must fairly and reasonably happen now with the claim. Im mindful that Mr C has a claim 
which is now eight years old. Which Admiral has spent four years, following my 2017 final 
decision, considering. Also that Admiral, throughout the claim has seemed to have 
accepted, its concerns about occupancy of the property aside, that a genuine loss covered 
by the policy had likely occurred. As Ive noted Admiral, despite having had ample 
opportunity to do so, has not set out why, within the policy itself, the loss would not be 
covered. That said, I bear in mind, that in its July 2021 letter Admiral has said its reserving 
its right to later rely on other facts and matters not set out therein. I can see why Admiral 
might say that. In all of the circumstances of this complaint though, including the history of 
the claim, I think that the time has passed for Admiral to reasonably be able to bring up new 
reasons for declining the claim. Taking everything into account, Im of the view that the only 
fair and reasonable way forward now is for me to require Admiral to settle the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy ie only those which relate to settlement. 
To be clear, Admiral wont be able to further consider its liability for the loss including in 
respect of any remaining concerns it may have about whether or not Mr C was occupying 
property A at the time of the loss. 
Compensation
Admiral, following my previous decision, undertook extensive further enquiries, I can 
understand it doing that. I think, in the main, its enquiries were reasonable and handled in a 
timely manner. I bear in mind there was some impact in later years by the Covid-19 
pandemic. And that following a challenge letter it issued in 2020 to Mr C, setting out some 
of its concerns, the parties re-entered claim discussions. Overall, I think the situation in 
question, along with the nature of the enquiries, unfortunately meant the process was 
prolonged, resulting in likely one of the longest investigations Ive seen. I dont doubt that 
Mr C was frustrated during this period, and that he likely suffered inconvenience too. 
However, where Admirals enquiries were reasonable and being reasonably made, I cant 
fairly award compensation for any upset caused.  
Ultimately though, those enquiries by Admiral, resulted in it issuing what I have found to be 
an unfair and unreasonable policy and claim decision. I accept that that outcome reached by 
Admiral was upsetting for Mr C. Im satisfied here that £500 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due.
Im not surprised Mr C has had to do some repairs at the property. He can put his costs to 
Admiral for consideration as it now moves to settle the claim (assuming Mr C accepts my 
final decision).As neither party has objected to my findings Ive no need to change them, or add further 
comment here. My provisional findings are now the findings of this my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Remove any record of voidance and/or fraud from its own and any external databases.
Accept it has overall liability for the cover.
Reinstate the policy for the year of the claim.
Settle the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions  those which relate to 
settlement, refraining from raising or seeking to rely upon any further argument about 
Mr Cs occupancy of property A.
Pay Mr C £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman