DRN-2771116
The complaint
Mr K says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as GeorgeBanco.com, lent irresponsibly 
to him. 
What happened
Mr K took out a 48-month guarantor loan for £7,000 from ELL on 8 January 2018. The 
monthly repayment was £291.36 and the total repayable was £13,985.28. It was given on 
the basis Mr K had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loan if he failed 
to.
Mr K says ELL didnt complete proper affordability checks. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said the lenders 
checks were proportionate and showed the loan would be affordable for Mr K.
Mr K disagreed with this assessment. He sent in a revised income and expenditure form to 
show he couldnt afford the repayments and his level of debt. He says it has affected his 
mental health.
As an agreement wasnt reached the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Mr K.
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged ELL to 
lend responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether Mr K could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr K. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr K, and have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ks loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
ELL asked for some information from Mr K before it approved the loan. It asked for details of 
his income and checked this using a third-party income verification tool. It asked for details 
of his housing costs, if he had any dependents and his monthly living costs. It increased his 
declared living costs significantly based on national statistics. It checked his credit file to 
understand his credit history and current monthly repayments. It also asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined ELL 
concluded the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr K.
I think these checks were proportionate and that ELL made a fair lending decision based on 
the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Mr K declared a monthly income of £1875 and ELL validated this using external data. He 
said his rent was £200 and his living expenses were just £77. ELL used national statistics 
that take into account the region, the household composition and the residential status and 
increased this to £715. From his credit file it calculated that he would have ongoing monthly 
credit commitments of £123, after he had used this loan to settle three mail order accounts. 
After including this loans repayment this meant Mr K would have disposable income of 
£546. I think this affordability assessment was fair and reasonable.
ELL could see from the credit check it carried out that there was one adverse entry dating 
back to 2015. It asked about this and Mr K explained he had been in dispute with the lender 
about its charges after using the card overseas. He was now repaying £25 a month to 
reduce this defaulted balance. Mr K had six other active credit accounts, three of which he 
wanted to settle with this loan.  These were all up-to-date with no missed payments during 
the life of each account. The credit check also showed Mr K wasnt overdrawn and wasnt 
using payday loans. So I dont think there was such a level of adverse data or indebtedness 
that ELL ought not to have lent to Mr K. I have considered that ELL need to be sure the loan was affordable for Mr K over a four-year 
term but given how he was managing his existing credit and his level of disposable income 
each month I dont think ELL missed any signs that Mr K might struggle to make the 
repayments. 
Mr K provided an updated income and expenditure form with a list of all his outstanding 
debts to show he could not afford the loan repayments. But this is dated April 2021 and for 
the reasons set out above does not change my conclusion about ELLs lending decision. I 
am sorry Mr K is now in a position where his financial situation has impacted his mental 
health. I understand this must be difficult and I hope he is getting the help he needs. 
But overall, I dont think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mr K based on the information 
gathered from its proportionate checks at the time.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent found any evidence it did. Neither party has provided details of the current status of 
the loan, and whether or not Mr K contacted ELL to ask for assistance when he was having 
financial difficulties. The ongoing management of the loan did not form part of his complaint 
to the lender. If Mr K is unhappy with how ELL responded if/when he made any requests for 
help he should complain to the lender to give it the opportunity to respond. He can of course 
then bring his complaint to this service if he is unhappy with the lenders response. If there is 
an outstanding balance on the loan ELL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr K if this has not already been done. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman