DRN-4498361
The complaint
Mr H complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options - formerly Carey 
Pensions UK LLP) shouldnt have accepted a transfer of his defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) via an introduction made by 
Caledonian International Associates (Caledonian).
The entities involved
Given the various parties involved in Mr Hs pension transfer and subsequent investment, 
Ive set out a summary of each below.
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate 
or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
Caledonian
Caledonian was the trading name of MMG Associates, which was registered in the British 
Virgin Islands. Caledonian was not authorised in the UK to undertake regulated activities and 
it does not (and did not at the time of the events subject to complaint here) appear on the 
FCAs Financial Services Register. And there is no evidence it was authorised to carry out 
regulated activities (where there was any relevant legislation) in any other jurisdiction. I shall 
call the individual who predominantly represented Caledonian in this matter, Mr C.
Business C
Business C is an investment manager. The evidence is that Business C agreed to manage 
or provide oversight of some of the investments taken out by Caledonians customers after 
they had transferred their pensions. I shall call the individual representing Business C, who 
was involved in some of Caledonians general dealings with Options, Mr P.
Friends Provident International
Friends Provident International (FPI) is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a bond 
(i.e. life assurance) wrapper which allows investment in a number of funds with a number of 
fund providers. Mr H invested in a number of investments within an FPI bond.
What happened
Mr H has explained he was approached by a Caledonian representative while working 
abroad, and they persuaded him to transfer his Armed Forces pension. 
At the time, Mr Hs permanent address was in the UK. He had built up significant benefits in 
the Armed Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS) from his time in the military, and in 
November 2012 these were assessed to be worth a cash equivalent value of around 
£123,000. Mr H has said the Caledonian representative told him there were no risks 
associated with the transfer and that his pension would achieve better returns if he 
transferred it. So, he agreed to transfer his benefits in the AFPS to an Options SIPP and 
invest in an FPI bond on Caledonians recommendation.
In October 2012, Mr H completed the Options SIPP Application Form For Direct Clients. 
In summary, his name, age, contact details, marital status, occupation, annual earnings 
beneficiary nomination and the value of the benefits he was transferring were completed by 
hand. The relevant box to waive his cancellation rights was also ticked. The other details 
entered on the form  selected retirement age (55), details of the AFPS and investment 
company selection (100% of his fund and any future contributions to be invested with FPI)  
were pre-populated.
The form also included a declaration Mr H signed which included, among others, the 
following statements:
oI agree to indemnify Carey Pensions UK LLPagainst any claim in respect of any 
decision made by myself and/or my Financial Adviser/Investment Manager or any 
other professional adviser I choose to appoint from time to time.
oI understand that Carey Pensions UK LLPare not in anyway [sic] able to provide 
me with any advice.
oI confirm that I am establishing the Carey Pension Scheme on an Execution only 
basis.
At the same time Mr H signed a fee schedule titled The Carey Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) Scheme Administration Charges for Caledonian International Clients. 
This set out that Options would pay Caledonian a fee of £1,250 from Mr Hs Options SIPP 
funds.
Mr H also signed a letter addressed to Dear Sirs which included the following:
I hereby confirm my understanding that, in electing to transfer as above, I will be 
forfeiting my entitlement to a defined level of benefit, at or before the normal 
retirement age for which the Ceding Scheme provides. I accept that the prospective 
levels of pension and death benefits, in the Receiving Scheme, to the extent that 
such benefits are derived from my cash equivalent transfer value from the Ceding 
Scheme, will be dependent upon investment performance in the period between the 
date of the transfer and any date of settlement of benefits, and that benefits from the 
Receiving Scheme might be of a lesser value than those that would have been 
available if I had remained a deferred member of the Ceding Scheme. I acknowledge 
that any guaranteed element of benefit, such as would have been provided both for 
me, and for my dependant(s) in the event of my death, will no longer be available 
once I have transferred from the Ceding Scheme to the Receiving Scheme.I acknowledge that neither the SIPP Company nor any other Pension Company has 
advised me in respect of my decision to transfer my cash equivalent transfer value, 
from the Ceding Scheme. I acknowledge that the SIPP company has recommended 
that I should seek independent financial advice, before reaching the decision to 
which this letter refers, and I acknowledge that the SIPP company will act upon my 
instructions on an execution only basis.
Later in October 2012, Caledonian sent the application to Options under a covering letter on 
which Caledonians stated address was in Switzerland. A checklist of enclosed documents 
was also included and the following items were ticked: Carey Application, [Armed Forces 
Pension Scheme, Pension Transfer Department] Letter, [Pension Transfer Value], Carey 
Instruction Letter, [Letter of Authority] for Caledonian, Transfer Letter, Signed Fee Structure, 
Passport, Utility/Bank Statement/Driving Licence, Advice (my emphasis), Trust Document, 
Castlestone Disclaimer, [Friends Provident] Illustration and [Transfer Value Analysis].
Although the checklist indicated a Transfer Value Analysis was enclosed, I havent seen a 
copy of it. But, based on examples Ive seen in other complaints that are similar to Mr Hs, I 
think its more likely than not that the document would have compared the benefits provided 
by Mr Hs AFPS pension with the proposed alternative arrangement  the Options SIPP. 
Given the value of Mr Hs proposed transfer, I also think it likely the document would have 
been produced by Mr P of Business C, and had an introductory page that included the 
following:
This analysis needs to be read in conjunction with the illustrations provided by the 
recommended provider and any recommendations made by your advisor.
The Certificate of Non-Solicitation was addressed to FPI from Caledonian and beside 
Client Name, Mr Hs name was given. It was signed by Mr C of Caledonian in 
November 2012 and it included, among other statements, the following:
The company is not authorised to conduct investment business in the United Kingdom. 
We acknowledge that this means that you are only able to accept the introduction from 
us if we have not been carrying on investment business in the United Kingdom. 
We therefore certify that:
i. We do not have a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom; and
ii. We did not approach the above named client
iii. The advice was given in Jordan
iv. The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice
Enclosed with the application form was, among other documents, a letter to Options and a 
page-long indemnity form with a table at the start which detailed the Member Name, 
Address, Occupational Scheme name, Occupational Scheme type and Adviser. Ill call this 
the Member Declaration. This was signed by both Mr H and Mr C of Caledonian. Mr C was 
named as Adviser and his signature was made in the space for Adviser Name in the 
signature box. The declaration included, amongst other statements, the following:
oI confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.oI fully indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd at all 
times against any and all liability arising from this transaction.
A few days later, Options established Mr Hs SIPP and sent him a welcome pack, and it 
contacted the AFPS to request the payment of the cash value transfer of Mr Hs benefits.
In February 2013, the AFPS paid the cash value of Mr Hs benefits to Options thereby 
completing the transfer. Then Options, as trustees of Mr Hs SIPP, completed the FPI 
application form for the investment bond called Reserve. On the first page of the application 
form under the section Financial Adviser Details, Caledonian International Associates was 
entered, and on page 16 of the application form under the section Declarations, part (ix) 
was completed like so:
This application was signed in: UK
and the advice was given in: Jordan
The remaining pages of the application form provided for the appointment of an Investment 
Adviser. Section A of this part of the form was pre-populated with Caledonians details, 
including an address for it in Chile. Section F was pre-populated with Mr Cs details and had 
been signed by him in mid-October 2012, in advance of Options completing its part of the 
form in February 2013.
Shortly afterwards, Options transferred most of the funds, about £121,000, to the FPI 
investment bond. 
Later that month FPI wrote to Options confirming it had paid commission to Caledonian 
(a trading name of MMG Associates) of 7% of Mr Hs investment (equivalent to around 
£8,500) for introducing Mr H to it.
In October 2013, Options sent Mr H an Annual Valuation Report for his SIPP. A statement 
was included in the report showing Options paid Caledonian a fee of £1,250 in March 2013. 
The payment was categorised as IFA Fees.
Mr Hs complaint and Options response
Mr H complained to Options in December 2020 via a professional representative. Mr H has 
said he saw an advertisement on a social media platform in late 2019 about mis-sold 
pensions which led him to contact the professional representative and pursue this complaint 
about Options.
Mr Hs representative said, on his behalf, that Options was negligent in allowing the transfer 
on the advice of Caledonian, who Options should have known was not regulated to give 
advice. The representative said Options had failed to identify the risks of consumer detriment 
by accepting business from Caledonian, and had Options done so, the detriment Mr H has 
suffered could have been avoided.
Options investigated Mr Hs complaint and gave its final response in January 2021, rejecting 
it. In summary, it said:
oOptions provides execution only (i.e. non-advised) SIPP administration services and 
this was explained to Mr H in all the documentation he signed in October 2012oIt was Options understanding that Caledonian were introducers only  
Mr H confirmed that he was a direct client who was not receiving any advice
oOptions would have been in breach of COBS 11.2.19 if it had not executed Mr Hs 
specific instructions to make the FPI investment  by virtue of this rule Options are 
not liable to Mr H
oOptions is not permitted to provide advice nor comment on the suitability of a SIPP or 
the underlying investment for the member, or comment on the introducer a customer 
has chosen to use
oMr H did not inform Options that he had been provided with advice from an 
unregulated company  Options cannot be held responsible for information that was 
not disclosed to it
oOptions undertook due diligence on Caledonian and had no reason to believe that it 
should not accept introductions from this business
oCaledonian are not known to Options as advisers and it is not aware that they held 
themselves out to be advisers
oMr H read and signed documentation which made clear he was a direct client, that he 
hadnt received any advice, and that his investment choices were his sole 
responsibility, and which guided him to seek financial advice, but he chose not to do 
so
Overall, Options said it had complied with its regulatory and contractual obligations to Mr H 
and was not liable to him for his loss.
Caledonian and Options
Ive set out the background to Mr Hs complaint and his dealings with Caledonian and 
Options above. But alongside those events its important to understand the underlying 
relationship between Caledonian and Options.
Options has said that it carried out due diligence checks on Caledonian and has provided 
supporting evidence of the checks it made.
I have set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions 
during the relationship between Options and Caledonian, which I have observed from the 
available evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Hs case file and submissions Options 
has made to us about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, Caledonian).
In March 2012 a business profile was completed which recorded Options first meeting with 
Mr C of Caledonian where he set out their proposed business model. This detailed that Mr C 
was preferred adviser (my emphasis) for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme 
for clients who were described as:
30 to 50 year olds
Had been in the armed forces for between 6 to 10 years
Had left the armed forces and wanted to transfer their pension arrangementsThey had no expectation of long-life expectancy
They were living today so wanted to access funds earlier then they could if their 
pension stayed in the armed forces pension scheme
They were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various 
countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.
They were now earning quite large salaries circa £70k plus
The business profile detailed that clients were referred to Mr C from his armed forces 
pensions contact or by other clients, and that he was currently putting them into an 
international Friends Provident Bond, the underlying investments were regulated. It went on:
[Mr C] himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised (my emphasis) them on their armed forces transfers only, he was a qualified 
accountant and was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants
He was developing a relationship with [Mr P], and may consider [Business C] as an 
alternative investment provider in due course. Although he was currently wanting a 
relationship with a SIPP provider.
[Mr C] was looking at volume business in the region of 50 schemes a month.
On 16 March 2012 Mr C signed and dated Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. 
The form began:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out
In the company information section Mr C explained that Caledonian had been trading since 
1997 and had branches in Chile, Peru, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil, and Switzerland. 
He went on to detail that they dealt with the following products:
Offshore savings plans + investment bonds  Friends Provident International + 
Generali
And indicated that these products had been accepted by other SIPP providers, including 
Options, and hadnt been declined by any pension scheme operators.
Under the heading Sales and Marketing Approach the document detailed that clients would 
be obtained by referral and that the sales process would be:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
A question on the form about typical commission structure was answered:
7% up front from bond  0.5% trail
Under the heading Training and Information Mr C explained that agents were provided with 
ongoing product training and accompanied meetings and that their pensions training was delivered through visits to providers directly. He went on to say that the business produced 
by agents was monitored by:
Full administrative structure  Caledonian, Careys  compliance, FPI  compliance
Under the heading Legal and Regulatory Information Mr C confirmed that Caledonian didnt 
work with any Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulated company or adviser, wasnt a 
member of any professional or industry body, had no professional indemnity insurance, and 
hadnt been subject to any FSA supervisory visits or censure.
In response to the question: What measures are in place to ensure the Firm engage legal 
advice on the activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out? the 
response read:
Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations 
apply we are licensed to carry out our activities.
To the question: How does the firm demonstrate it is treating its customers fairly? the 
response read:
Compliance & Procedures in current alignment with FSA TCF.
Mr Cs other responses on the form were that Caledonians business objective was to 
continue to develop a fully compliant business of PT to HM Forces and that with regards to 
member-directed pension scheme business they were looking to achieve compliant 
business in a regulated structure.
On 23 March 2012 Options asked Mr C by email for a copy of Caledonians latest company 
accounts and a certified copy of each directors/principals passport. Options chased a 
response to this email on 3 April. A Senior Consultant at Caledonian then supplied a copy of 
Mr Cs passport (uncertified) and said theyd ask Mr C about the accounts when he returned 
from a trip. On 4 April Mr C emailed Options:
 my apologies for not having replied before now  I am back tomorrow Thursday 
and will have te [sic] appropriate documents over to you early next week 
On 27 April 2012 Options started to receive introductions from Caledonian (Options has 
confirmed there were 509 introductions to it made by Caledonian between 27 April 2012 and 
20 May 2013).
On 1 August 2012, ahead of a compliance audit, a Team Leader at Options contacted 
Caledonian to ask again for the certified passports and annual accounts. In an internal email 
the Team Leader confirmed shed spoken with Mr C and hed be sending an urgent request 
for the documentation we require.
On 4 September 2012 a Non-regulated Introducer Agreement Terms of Business 
document between Options and MMG Associates Ltd T/A Caledonian International 
Associates was signed and dated by Mr C and Options CEO. That agreement included, 
amongst other terms, the following undertaking:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules;
On that agreement document Mr C gave an address in Switzerland as the business address. 
Options has said that these terms of business were received by Caledonian in March 2012 - 
and so it seems there was a delay in Mr C signing and returning them.
On 1 November 2012 Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on two 
Caledonian employees  one of which was Mr C. This check did not reveal any issues.
Options has said that in early 2013, it appointed a dedicated in-house compliance officer 
and they enhanced the compliance framework within the firm, compliance monitoring 
programme and risk assessment.
On 7 March 2013 an internal email was sent by a Manager at Options to several other 
Options employees summarising a call shed held with Mr C. The summary included these 
key points:
oOptions had explained that following recent FSA reviews and guidance SIPP 
providers were being asked to look at business received from their introducers 
against expectations of type and profile.
oOptions explained that several applications received recently had moved away from 
the expected profile of client and queried whether the profile was 
changing/extending.
oMr C explained that predominantly the members were in the close protection 
industry which as @5 years ago they all went into. He said that foreign operatives 
were now coming in in a more organised structure. Some were getting promoted into 
senior positions. Many were previously divers in the military and so going into Diving 
elsewhere.
oOptions asked Mr C to put together a note for its CEO to update Caledonians 
business profile and expectations.
On 20 March 2013 the Options Manager sent Mr C an email following up on their 
conversation. Options asked again for an update as to the changes in profile and 
highlighted that a further two applications had been received for individuals outside of the 
expected profile.
Options has provided a document titled Overseas Introducer Assessment Proforma. 
This document is undated but, given that it refers to recently received business outside of 
profile and also the World Check completed in November 2012 I think its likely to have 
been completed around the end of March 2013, and certainly no earlier than November 
2012.
I have set out below what I consider to be the most relevant parts of the form recorded, and 
the level of risk that was noted:
Heading Notes RiskSection 1  Company Assessment
Google 
Search and 
FCANo adverse comments Low
Regulatory Cannot find any regulatory information from the details 
heldHigh
Company No UK branch. Cannot see any EEA regulatory details 
Unknown company establishment time  cannot find any 
details from information received. No accounts 
requested? No Articles of association requested? 
/receivedMainly 
Medium
Compliance 
OfficerUnknown if have compliance officer or not High
Professional 
QualificationsNo qualifications documented other than meeting note 
from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified 
accountantHigh
Meeting Meeting held at Carey Pensions UK office March 2012 Medium
Section 2 - Advice/Client Profile/Investment
Advice Unregulated  No details of how advice given. No 
regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan? Advice 
possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK 
based clients.
It was also noted that the funds for investment within the 
SIPP were to be generated from:
Transfers from Armed Forces Pension occupational 
scheme.High
Client Profile Client Profile: 30-50 years old. Part of armed forces 6-10 
years. Generally still UK residents, some abroad.
Now working in security earning c. £70k pa. HOWEVER, 
recently received business outside of profile.High
Investment Initially Friends Provident International bond. Now using 
[Business J]. Both FCA regulated.Low
At the end of the Company Assessment section the overall result was recorded as Amber, 
a result described as Queries to raise. The wording against this result read:
Company details are a mixture of Green and Amber raise with technical review 
committee before proceeding.The overall result at the end of the Advice/Client Profile/Investment section was recorded 
as Red, a result described as Decline.
On 26 April 2013 an Options Compliance Officer sent an email to several other Options 
employees titled Review of relationship with Caledonian. It began:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure 
our products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on 
recent correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their 
business practices and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them 
and the business they have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to 
discuss. In the meantime we need to determine the answers to the questions below 
to help facilitate our discussions.
The Options Compliance Officer then set out 18 questions and statements about Caledonian 
and the relationship with Options and invited recipients of the email to please provide 
answers to the following where you can.
On 30 April 2013 another member of the compliance team inserted her answers and 
comments:
Overview of business
Date relationship commenced: April/May 2012
What is the agreed profile of clients introduced by Caledonian: Ex Armed Forces 
Approx age 38, working in the Close protection industry (security), earnings of 
Approx £70k
Number of clients introduced: 497 (363 now invested, 134 ongoing)
Value of investments held: £16m
Nature of investments, i.e. any alternative investments: Friends Provident Int. 
(Funds) or, [Business J] Investment Platform with [Business C] acting as DFM.
Number of complaints from Caledonian introduced clients: None
How many transfers were also accompanied by a TVAS [Transfer Value Analysis]? 
Who has provided the TVAS? 37  Only TVs over £100k (from Armed Forces 
Pension) or any amount no matter how small on other TVs. TVAS provided by 
[Mr P] ([Business C])
Overview of Caledonian
What due diligence was undertaken on Caledonian prior to establishing the 
relationship?  Unknown but AML was received.
Location of head office: Geneva, SwitzerlandDo they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address 
for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK [address]
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute - ID Number XXXXX. 
[Mr C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? 
Do they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan 
to provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter 
which is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached
How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules? 
Unknown
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? Caledonian send to 
us the Friends Provident Investment Applications with the Application to set 
up the SIPP. The funds table in the investment App is pre-populated by 
Caledonian. The Member does see a copy of this document - which we send to 
them prior to investing their funds.
What due diligence did we undertake on [Business C]? Unknown
A further reply was made later on 30 April 2013 by Options CEO. She wrote:
To add to [Options employees] information. I attach a business profile which details 
how the relationship emerged with Caledonian which provides background 
information, also the process notes that were agreed at a meeting held in our old MK 
offices which was a workshop to present our SIPP proposition and understand their 
business better In answer to some of [Options employees] unknowns 
Where do they meet with clients? Generally abroad depending on where their next 
assignment is, they will also hold meetings in the UK 
Are they regulated to give advice in their home jurisdication [sic]? No because they 
are not regulated they are introducers of business
They have confirmed they give advice in Jordan? When they mean advice they are 
talking about consultancy they are not regulated in any jurisdication [sic]
How did we establish their knowledge of UK Pension and SIPP marketplace? 
By meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them output from which is 
attachedBased on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
I am not sure it is our place to comment on this maybe on the information but not on 
advice, if we commented on whether we thought even our regulated advisers were 
providing poor advice I would probably think we would say yes. Think we need to be 
careful what questions we are looking to answer comfortable on the information piece 
but not on the advice piece
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? No they don't, they 
consult with the client on the feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme into a SIPP and their partner to manage the investment is [Business C] 
On 10 May 2013 Options CEO sent Caledonian an email requesting further information. 
The email confirmed Options was reviewing its terms of business in light of recent 
announcements from the FCA and our internal compliance reviews.
Options made clear it was keen to continue doing business with Caledonian but must do so 
in a framework that is robust and compliant and will satisfy the regulators. The email 
continued, so we must start with ensuring we understand each stage of the process, to 
enable us to develop a robust and compliant process for this business moving forward. 
Options said that as a starting point it would like Caledonian to clarify a number of issues. 
The email read:
1. Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions
2. Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice
3. What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions
4. On what basis are you providing illustrations and the reasons for this basis 
5. Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
6. Please confirm the profile of your clients
7. Please confirm how you receive introductions to your clients
8. Can you update information about your team their background, expertise in dealing 
with pensions
9. On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, [UK city]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in 
the UK and the nature of the office in [UK city].
The email closed with a reminder to Caledonian that from 1 May 2013 Options had 
implemented some changes to its requirements and must have a UK FCA regulated adviser providing the TVAS and the sign off for the suitability of transfers from occupational schemes 
of any values.
On 15 May 2013 Options sent an internal email which was a summary of a telephone 
conversation with Mr P of Business C. The summary recorded that:
oMr P confirmed that an FCA Regulated Adviser would be providing the TVAS reports 
on all Caledonian introduced clients. This adviser would produce TVAS reports on 
the back book of business with Caledonian
oOn this understanding Options had agreed they would continue to process 
applications where the TVAS report was currently being issued by Mr P
Options says that the last introduction made to it by Caledonian was on 20 May 2013.
On 23 May 2013 Options met with Mr P of Business C and Mr C of Caledonian. In the 
handwritten summary of that meeting the following was noted:
oMr C was a consultant to armed forces and not an adviser in the FCA sense
oThe [UK City] address was a postal address and not a working office
oMr C met with clients in the UK but initial contact was abroad. The client contacts 
Caledonian if they want to transfer their pension (it was noted that the documents 
said that he met them in Jordan and that FPI need a letter about where advice was 
given)
oCaledonians website didnt mention that it would give advice, and their documents 
made it clear no advice was given and clients should take advice from a regulated 
adviser
oMr P explained that the reason for lots of transfers was the market and their 
relationship with the providers
oThe proposal going forward involved an appointed representative of a Manchester 
IFA (Business A) being a pension specialist of Business C  it had the necessary 
qualifications. Going forward the Manchester IFA would deal with business
oOptions agreed to allow Caledonian a four-week window to put the proposal in place
oThe question about advice was irrelevant to Options as no advice is given  FPI want 
a letter about advice but no advice is given
oCaledonian said its illustrations were provided to facilitate the business. 
Options queried whether this was advice
oA question was noted  is there a terms of business for Caledonian with client?
I have not seen evidence that any of the agreed actions were completed. As noted, Options 
did not accept any further business from Caledonian after 20 May 2013.
Options decided to review its relationship with Caledonian. Options has provided a copy of 
its document headed, Caledonian Relationship Review 2013. I have reviewed the 
document in full, but have only quoted below what I consider to be the key part:Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were 
raised regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through 
an unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
We have insisted that they move to a model that all cases are fully advised by an 
FCA regulated firm/individual, which has been accepted 
Following a meeting in the Milton Keynes office  where [Mr C] from Caledonian, 
and [Mr P] of [Business C] explained their current process and documentation and 
described their future process, [and] further discussionsit was decided that they 
had not satisfied us enough with their current processes for us to continue to allow 
taking on new business in the interim without the use of a UK regulated firm or 
individual who was suitably qualified.
[Options] has instructed the team of this decision so from week beginning 28th May 
any new business received will be rejected unless it comes through an FCA 
regulated firm.
It set out a detailed process by which Caledonian proposed to move to a model where all 
clients would be fully advised by an FCA regulated firm/individual, and it highlighted the 
benefits of this new approach as being:
All schemes are coming in on an advised basis
Brings the process and clients into the UK regulated process
Brings the clients into the FSCS and FOS protections
Ensures all occupational schemes undergo analysis and advice
I have not seen evidence that this approach was ever enacted  again, as noted, no further 
business introduced by Caledonian was accepted by Options after 20 May 2013.
Our Investigators view
Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in February 2021. One of 
our Investigators considered the merits of Mr Hs complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
In summary, they:
oSaid they had considered whether Mr H's complaint had been made within the 
applicable time limits and concluded it had. They explained:
Mr Hs complaint was made more than six years after the events complained 
about took place
They were satisfied by the information received that Mr H became aware of a 
cause for complaint in late 2019 when he saw an advert about mis-sold 
pensions. So, as Mr Hs complaint was made within three years of him seeing 
that advert, it had been made in timeoSet out the considerations relevant to reaching their view on the complaint, including:
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Businesses
publications issued by the FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA)
relevant case law
information gathered from this complaint and others the Financial 
Ombudsman Service has received that are very similar to Mr Hs, about the 
relationship between Options and Caledonian
oAccepted that Options was not authorised to, and had no responsibility to, provide 
advice to Mr H
oSaid Options had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on unregulated 
introducers and should have been aware before it made the decision to start 
accepting introductions from Caledonian that doing so would carry significant risk of 
consumer detriment
oSaid Caledonian was providing advice but not following a proper advice process, 
Options should have realised Mr H was being advised, and this alone should have 
led Options to refuse the business, because Caledonian was not authorised to carry 
on such activities
oSaid the fact Caledonian had no qualifications relevant to providing pension transfer 
advice, the high volume of cases submitted by Caledonian and its failure to provide 
its company accounts should have caused Options concern
oConcluded that Options should have done adequate due diligence at the outset and 
refused the introductions from Caledonian. And had Options done so, Mr Hs 
transaction would not have taken place.
Finally, our Investigator set out how Options should put things right by putting Mr H as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for Options accepting the business from 
Caledonian. Our Investigator considered that if Options had acted appropriately, its more 
likely than not that Mr H would have remained a member of the pension scheme he 
transferred into the SIPP. So, our Investigator set out how Options should calculate his 
losses and compensate him.
Our Investigator also recommended Options pay Mr H £500 for the distress caused by the 
knowledge that he has suffered a significant loss of pension funds and valuable benefits 
from his Armed Forces pension.
Mr H accepted our Investigators view.
Options response to our Investigators view
Options did not accept the Investigators view and said that Mr H complained too late. I have 
summarised below what I consider to be the key points of Options disagreement but have 
considered Options response in its entirety. Options said:oMr H became aware he had cause to complain when he signed the SIPP application 
documents including a declaration confirming that he had read, understood and 
accepted that he would be losing a secure pension for life by transferring his benefits 
from the [AFPS], that the decision was his and did not hold Options UK liable for the 
decisions he was making to transfer, and had he had any concerns, [Mr H] should 
not have elected to proceed with his transfer.
o[Options] received an instruction from [Mr H] to have his funds disinvested.
[Mr H] went ahead and completed the surrender of his investment on 7 April 2016, 
which would suggest that he was or ought to have been aware that his investment 
was not performing as he would have anticipated it to At the very least, [Mr H] was 
put on notice of potential issues which are relevant to the complaint and would have 
left any reasonable person to consider his position vis a vis the SIPP provider.
oBetween Mr Hs surrender of his investment and his complaint to Options, there had 
been no material developments in respect of the investment or other relevant facts 
which would have prompted [Mr H] to complain. All of the relevant facts were 
therefore either: (1) already actually known to [Mr H]; or (2) should reasonably have 
been known to them.
oIt formally requests an oral hearing is held in order to properly determine whether the 
complaint is time-barred.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld, for similar reasons to the investigator.
At the same time, I set out my decision that Mr Hs complaint is not time barred and can be 
considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. I also explained why I am satisfied its not 
necessary for me to hold an oral hearing. My conclusions about those matters remain 
unchanged and I shant repeat them here.
Options did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr H responded to say he accepted the 
provisional decision.
As I have not received any further submissions from either party, and have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings, I have repeated my provisional findings 
below, as my final decision, and have not therefore included any further detail of them in this 
background summary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, having not received any further submissions from either party since issuing 
my provisional decision, I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional findings, 
and have repeated those findings below, with a few minor changes, as my final decision.Relevant considerations
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations 
to deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles
The FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. 
The specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. 
They are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. 
The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the 
Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment 
specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.In BBSAL, Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of an 
ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded 
that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in 
respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, 
it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had 
therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 FSMA and the approach an ombudsman is 
to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the 
lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. So, the Principles 
are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of 
this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of 
Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams 
v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, 
HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me.
Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform the extent of the 
duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Hs case are very different from those in Adams. There are also significant 
differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in 
Mr Hs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal 
judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Hs complaint, I am considering whether Options ought 
to have identified that the introductions from Caledonian involved a risk of consumer 
detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
Caledonian prior to entering into a contract with Mr H.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
both Adams cases. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able 
 to give advice to Mr H on the suitability of its SIPP or the investment for him personally. 
But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept particular 
investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from particular 
businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its obligations at the 
relevant time. As noted above, the Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile completed at 
the start of Options relationship with Caledonian began:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out
Sections 27 and 28 FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant 
to S27 FSMA.
S27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and another party, 
which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons regulated activity, 
is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made in consequence of something said 
or done by another person (the third party) in the course of a regulated activity carried on 
by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition.
S27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; 
and
(b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it.
S28(3) FSMA provides that If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the 
circumstances of the case, it may allow 
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
The General Prohibition is set out in S19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is 
a) an authorised person; or
b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so s27 FSMA applied. 
It further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the 
agreement to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by 
s28(3) FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers 
from their own folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that 
Mr Adams caused his own losses and misled Carey;ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated 
with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to 
enforce agreements and being required to return money and other property and to 
pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
oThe volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as 
to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending clients 
to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There was thus 
reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer advising on 
investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO)
oOptions was aware that: contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it was 
receiving high commission from the investment provider, there were indications that 
the introducer was offering consumers cashback and one of those running the 
introducer was subject to a FCA warning notice
oThe investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons for 
concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least explore 
the position with Mr Adams, but it did not do so
I shall address later in this decision how I consider S27 FSMA to be an additional and 
alternative ground upon which this complaint should be upheld. But before that, Ill address 
below what I think Options should have concluded from the information it had about 
Caledonian and what this should have meant for Mr Hs proposed pension transfer and 
investment.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
oThe 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports
oThe October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance
oThe July 2014 Dear CEO letter
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
oConfirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
oHaving Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
oRoutinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs 
can be identified.
oBeing able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable 
the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if 
it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
oRequesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
oRoutinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business. 
oIdentifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
oConfirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
oHaving terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
oUnderstanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
oBeing able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
oIdentifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
oAlthough the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment 
advice given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of 
the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
oconducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
ohaving clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and 
ousing non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from nonregulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
oensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
operiodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
ohaving checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducersoensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
ogood practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
oensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
oCorrectly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
oEnsuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
oEnsuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
oEnsuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
oEnsuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman.Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact that some of the publications 
post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Hs complaint, mean that the examples 
of good practice they provide were not good practice at the time of the relevant events. 
Although the later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr H. It is accepted Options was not required to give 
advice to Mr H, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with.
As noted above, it is clear from Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile, that it 
understood and accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on Caledonian.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding  as Options 
Compliance Officer noted in their email of 26 April 2013, We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure our products do not end up with 
customers for whom it is not suitable. And I note in submissions on other complaints 
Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it had in mind when considering its 
approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of whether it should accept business 
from a particular introducer.
All in all, I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on Caledonian which was consistent with good industry practice 
and its regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Summary of my decision
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the relationships 
between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives non-exhaustive 
examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory 
obligations, set by the Principles, Options ought to have identified a significant risk of 
consumer detriment arising from the business model Caledonian described to it at the 
outset. And so, Options ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting 
applications from Caledonian.
I acknowledge Options did take some steps  initially and on an ongoing basis  which did 
amount to good practice consistent with its regulatory obligations. But I think, acting fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, Options had 
reason at the outset  and certainly by the time of Mr Hs application  to have significant 
concerns about the business Caledonian would be introducing. And it ought to have taken 
the sort of action it took in April and May 2013  which effectively ended its relationship with 
Caledonian  before the relationship with Caledonian began.
Acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have:
oBeen aware  or at least concluded there was a significant risk  at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian, that Caledonian was giving advice on the transfer out of 
consumers existing defined benefit schemes to the SIPP and the subsequent 
investment
oBeen aware that Caledonian was arranging the transfer out of consumers existing 
defined benefit schemes to the SIPP and the subsequent investment
oSought clarification on where these activities were taking place
oConcluded Caledonian was, in at least some instances, carrying out regulated 
activities in the UK
Further, Options should have recognised, and promptly reacted to, the following risks of 
consumer detriment:
oCaledonians staff did not have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  to give 
advice on defined benefit pension transfersoThere was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr H were therefore unable to make fully informed decisions 
about the transfer to the SIPP and the FPI bond investment
oThe high volume of business being proposed/brought about by Caledonian
oThe high level of commission Caledonian was taking
oThat Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options
I think these points  individually and cumulatively  should have led Options, acting fairly 
and reasonably, to have concluded at the outset that it should not accept business from 
Caledonian. And so, Mr Hs application should not have proceeded.
It follows that it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Finally, I am also satisfied that S27 FSMA applies here, as regulated activities were 
undertaken by Caledonian, in breach of the General Prohibition. So, Mr H is entitled to 
recover any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement 
(i.e. the SIPP), as well as compensation for any loss suffered. I am also satisfied that in the 
circumstances a court would not exercise its discretion to allow the agreement to be 
enforced; or money paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
This is a further basis on which I consider it to be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Because Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint on the basis that Options shouldnt have 
accepted his introduction from Caledonian, its not necessary for me to consider whether or 
not Options shouldve allowed the FPI bond investment in Mr Hs SIPP. I make no findings 
about the appropriateness of the FPI bond investment for the Options SIPP which Mr H 
opened.
I have set out my decision in more detail below.
What activities did Caledonian undertake and what should Options have concluded?
Advice
I note that Options says it did not at any point become aware that Caledonian were 
providing advice. This is a surprising assertion, given Options recorded in March 2013, 
when assessing Caledonian, under the heading Advice:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. 
Although suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?
Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients.
And so, it seems Options understood at this point that advice was being given. To ask 
questions about how and where advice was being given, the conclusion must first have been 
reached that advice was being given. There is nothing to suggest this was a view it had recently reached  rather it seems that it was an existing understanding which was being 
flagged as an issue for the first time.
When further action on this point was eventually taken by Options a member of its staff said, 
on 30 April 2013 No they [Caledonian] don't [give advice], they consult with the client on the 
feasibility of transferring their [occupational pension scheme] into a SIPP.
This seems to be an effort to back-track on the earlier answers given to the questions in the 
26 April 2013 email, which appear to accept Caledonian was giving advice, although much 
else was unknown. But, to my mind, describing Caledonians role as consulting on the 
feasibility of doing something is simply another way of describing an advisory role.
It would also have been clear to Options that Caledonians role was not limited to advice on 
the transfer out of the consumers existing scheme  it was declared on the FPI applications 
that Caledonian was giving advice on the bond too, and so any consulting was not solely 
limited to the transfer out from the existing scheme. This was clearly not viewed by Options 
as a satisfactory answer to this point in any event as its enquiries continued and, on 
10 May 2013, Options asked Caledonian:
Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
This shows Options was clearly of the view at this point that, at the very least, Caledonian 
might be giving advice as there is no other basis on which it could have sought clarification 
from Caledonian as to whether advice was being given.
It seems this was a view Options maintained. As set out above, it later noted: 
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
And it ultimately concluded in May 2013 that all business should come to it through a UK IFA 
with permissions to give pension transfer advice  an unusual step to take if it did not remain 
of the view there was at least a risk Caledonian was giving advice. Although Options has 
said it took that step as a wider policy decision and not as a response to concerns about 
Caledonian, the evidence it gave about that wider policy decision suggested that the wider 
policy decision was made in 2014, and was based on reviews and considerations which 
mostly took place after May 2013. The decision as it related to accepting new business from 
Caledonian appears to be set out in a document from May 2013 headed Caledonian 
Relationship Review 2013. The above suggests to me that Options knew  or suspected  
advice was being given from the outset but took a reactive, piecemeal approach to 
addressing this obvious risk.
Furthermore, from the information available to Options at the very outset of its relationship 
with Caledonian there was a clear identifiable risk that advice was being given by 
Caledonian. Caledonian said, at the outset, it was:
preferred adviser for the Armed Forces occupational pension schemea consultant to these clients and advised them on their armed forces transfers only
currently putting them into an international Friends Provident Bond
And Caledonians sales process was described as:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
Finally, as mentioned, many of the FPI applications I have seen, including the one relating to 
Mr Hs investment, confirm Caledonian was giving advice (in Jordan  a point Ill turn to 
below) and Options would have been privy to many of these forms from an early stage in its 
relationship with Caledonian  and certainly by the time it received Mr Hs application. 
I note it was recorded that Caledonian advised on the transfer only, but it was also recorded 
that it was selecting the investment vehicle (in this case, the FPI bond). And it is also very 
difficult to see how advice on a transfer out did not encompass advice on where to transfer 
to (i.e. the SIPP)  particularly when it was clearly anticipated that all consumers would be 
transferring to an Options SIPP. It is not clear how this could happen without those 
consumers being advised to take this course of action.
Furthermore, the Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit process Caledonian describes is a 
typical advice process involving an initial meeting, information gathering and analysis, and a 
further meeting.
Options should also have been aware that it is not usual for pension transfers to happen 
without the consumer receiving advice or a recommendation  and very unusual for this to 
happen at a rate of 50 a month, which Caledonian was proposing. Options should have 
concluded that it was simply implausible that such a large volume of consumers were 
deciding to transfer out of their existing schemes, open a SIPP with Options, and make the 
same investments (with one of only a very few providers) within the SIPP without being 
advised to do so.
I note Options terms of business with Caledonian, signed September 2012 (but, Options 
says, in place since March 2012) said:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules;
I also note the SIPP application form said:
This Form should be used if you are a client establishing a SIPP without advice. 
You have made this decision independently and are aware of the implications of this 
decision.
And:
As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your sole 
responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions as long as it is 
an accepted investment in the Carey Pension Scheme.
But Options Member Declaration included the following:I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
And the Certificate of Non-Solicitation enclosed with the SIPP application form included the 
following:
ii. The advice was given in Jordan
iii. The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice
So, I do not think the application documents gave Options any basis to conclude advice had 
not been given  particularly given what I say above. They present a confused, inconsistent, 
picture. And where the documents expressly said that Mr H had not been advised, they said 
in most instances that Options hadnt advised Mr H, rather than that Caledonian hadnt 
advised Mr H.
Taking account of the available evidence I consider that, in this case, Caledonian did provide 
advice to Mr H on the merits of transferring his pension to the SIPP and investing in the FPI 
bond. It appears more likely than not that Caledonian proactively suggested this course of 
action to Mr H. He transferred his pension to the same SIPP and invested in one of only a 
very few investments used by the other consumers who Caledonian introduced. I dont think 
Mr H wouldve transferred his pension to a SIPP or invested it in the FPI bond of his own 
volition or without a positive recommendation from Caledonian.
Indeed, the paperwork Ive seen supports that Mr H was given advice. The evidence is that 
the Caledonian representative presented themselves as an Adviser to Mr H. As Ive 
highlighted above, the Caledonian representatives signature was made in the space for 
Adviser Name on the member declaration accompanying the SIPP application form. 
Caledonian also selected the investment  the investment details were typed/pre-populated 
on the SIPP application form for Mr Hs signature.
I am also satisfied that from the outset of its relationship with Caledonian, Options was (or at 
the very least ought to have been) aware, generally, that Caledonian was offering advice to 
consumers, or there was a significant risk it might be doing so.
Arranging
It is also clear from what Options was told by Caledonian at the outset  and from the 
available evidence in this complaint and others  that Caledonian was heavily involved in the 
arrangement of the transfer out of Mr Hs existing pension scheme to the SIPP and the 
investment of the cash transferred to the SIPP in the FPI bond. It clearly was not simply 
introducing Mr H to Options and leaving it to him to proceed with the application. It was 
involved in the setting up of the SIPP and in arranging the FPI bond. It was involved in 
gathering all the information and documents needed for things to proceed and it sent all the 
required information, forms, documents etc to all the parties involved, and dealt with any 
queries arising from these.
I think Options ought to have been aware of this. The extent of Caledonians involvement 
was clear from the application documentation Caledonian sent to Options, and its 
involvement in other applications of the same nature. Where were the activities taking place?
I have not seen any evidence that, prior to May 2013, Options established where Caledonian 
was carrying out its activities in relation to each application  including Mr Hs.
As set out above, Caledonian told Options at the outset that They [the consumers] were 
generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various countries such as 
Thailand, Germany, Spain etc. It was also recorded that Caledonian had branches in Chile, 
Peru, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. And, as Options later noted, Caledonian 
also used a UK address.
Caledonian also told Options at the outset the Majority of business carried out in 
unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations apply we are licensed to carry out our 
activities.
And, as mentioned, the sales process adopted by Caledonian was set out as Referral Visit 
 Analysis  Visit. So, it was clear Caledonian was meeting consumers in person.
Furthermore, the Certificate of Non-Solicitation signed by Caledonian for FPI  to which 
Options was privy  said in each instance (as far as Im aware) The advice was given in 
Jordan.
Caledonian therefore gave what appears to be conflicting information. But Options ought to 
have been aware, from what was said by Caledonian, that it was possible Caledonian might 
be dealing with a UK resident consumer in the UK, or dealing with a consumer in any one of 
a number of different countries, all of which might have different financial services regulatory 
regimes (or no such regime).
It is fair to say the picture was far from clear  and Options should have been aware it was 
unlikely all of the information provided by Caledonian could be correct. It is not, for example, 
clear how the advice in every instance could have been given in Jordan when, by 
Caledonians own account, it had a number of offices around the world (none of which were 
in Jordan), was dealing with consumers who were generally still resident in UK or living 
abroad in various countries and said elsewhere that it was carrying out business in various 
jurisdictions.
Options did not, however, check any of this at the outset. It was therefore in no position to 
know what, if any, regulatory regimes applied, and whether Caledonian required any 
authorisations to conduct the activities it did. Caledonian itself appears to have suggested it 
needed licences in some jurisdictions, but I have seen no evidence of it having given 
details of any such licences.
I think Options should have been particularly concerned  given that, as mentioned, 
Caledonian told Options the consumers it dealt with were generally still resident in UK  
about whether advice was being given (or any other regulated activity carried on) in the UK, 
as Caledonian was not authorised by the FSA nor, later, the FCA. There was reason, as Ive 
explained, to think Caledonian might be breaching the General Prohibition against persons 
carrying on a regulated activity in the UK without authorisation. Despite this, I have seen no 
evidence to show Options identified this risk until March 2013 when, as set out above, it was 
noted:
No details of how advice given. No regulatory bodies / permissions seen. 
Although suggested on email that advice given in Jordan?Advice possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for UK based clients. 
Then no further action appears to have been taken until 26 April 2013 when, in a further 
internal email exchange at Options, the following questions were asked, and answers were 
received on 30 April 2013 (the below, in bold, are the first set of answers provided on this 
date):
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have 
a permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business 
address for correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK.
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute  ID Number XXXXX. 
[Mr C] certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? 
Do they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan 
to provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter 
which is sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non 
Solicitation Letter is attached
Despite the uncertainty it was not until 10 May 2013, when Options finally challenged 
Caledonian on this point (amongst others):
Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions 
What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan
On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a permanent 
place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be sent to The 
Pensions Service Centre, [UK City]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's presence in 
the UK and the nature of the office in [UK City].
Given what I say above, acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have made these 
enquiries at the outset. And as set out in the background, these enquiries (along with the 
other points of query put to Caledonian and then discussed with it) led to Options quickly 
concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless they came 
through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction which it 
seems had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. I think it fair to 
say that Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so, to act fairly 
and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
In this case Im satisfied Caledonian carried out at least some regulated activities in the UK. 
Mr Hs address was in the UK at the time of his SIPP application and as Ive set out above, 
Caledonians sales process involved visiting clients. Im aware from other, similar, cases that 
even when Caledonian initially approached clients abroad, as it did in Mr Hs case, it was 
usual for subsequent meetings to take place at the clients home in the UK. Had Options 
sought clarification from Mr H, which would have been a reasonable course of action in the 
circumstances, I think Mr H would likely have confirmed that at least some of his dealings 
with Caledonian took place in the UK. And, for all the reasons I have mentioned, Options 
should have concluded it was possible Caledonian was carrying out activities in the UK long 
before it received Mr Hs application, in any event.
If Options had reached that conclusion, as I believe it should have, through taking 
appropriate steps at the start of its relationship with Caledonian, then Options should have 
declined to enter into a relationship with Caledonian at all or at least ended its relationship 
with Caledonian before accepting Mr Hs application. I think this was the only fair and 
reasonable action it should have taken in the circumstances.
Regulated activities in the UK
Under Article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the RAO) (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) the 
following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, 
sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as 
relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling 
within paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a specified 
kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate. 
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security.
The investments made within the FPI bond  which Caledonian itself described as 
regulated  were also securities or relevant investments. 
Finally, the FPI bond was a contract of insurance, and rights under a contract of insurance 
were also a relevant investment. 
As set out above, I am satisfied Caledonian gave advice and made arrangements. 
The activities it undertook clearly meet the above definitions. The arrangements it made 
brought about the transactions (the transfer out of Mr Hs existing pension into the SIPP, the 
opening of the FPI bond within the SIPP and the making of investments within that bond). 
The arrangements had that direct effect. And advice was given on the merits of transferring 
out of Mr Hs existing scheme to the SIPP in order to invest in the FPI bond  Mr H was 
persuaded that would give him a better pension in retirement.
So, I am satisfied the activities undertaken by Caledonian in the UK in this case were 
regulated activities. Caledonian therefore carried out regulated activities without 
authorisation.
These points about the activities Caledonian was undertaking, where it was undertaking 
them, and its authorisation to undertake them, are ones Options should have considered 
individually and cumulatively. And to be clear, I think the fact Caledonian was carrying out 
regulated activities without authorisation was enough reason, in itself, for Options to have 
concluded, that it should not accept applications from Caledonian.
This was a significant red flag. The fact Caledonian was carrying out regulated activities 
without authorisation calls into question its integrity, motivation and competency. I think the 
only fair and reasonable conclusion Options could reach in these circumstances was that it 
should not accept business from Caledonian. And I think this alone is sufficient reason to 
conclude it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint. But I have nonetheless gone 
on to consider the further risks of consumer detriment I have summarised above.
Caledonians expertise
Caledonians proposed business model, as documented at Options first meeting with its 
representative, involved former members of the armed forces who, it said, worked in security 
related jobs in dangerous areas. The business model was not one involving, say, former 
financial advisers or other finance professionals.
There was therefore no reason to think that the typical client Caledonian was proposing to 
introduce to Options had a good level of understanding of pensions or was in a position to 
work out for themselves if a pension transfer was in their best interests. They would be 
reliant on Caledonians advice.The introductions involved transfers out of a defined benefit pension scheme into a UK SIPP 
for investment in several investments within an FPI bond. The transfers of defined benefit 
(final salary) pensions are usually not in the customers best interests, are complex and 
present a variety of consequences and matters which the ordinary individual would be hard 
pressed to understand without professional financial advice. Those giving such advice in the 
UK are required by the FCA to pass specialist exams, reflecting the risks and complexities 
involved. Options, as a provider of SIPPs, would or ought to have been aware of this.
Not only did Caledonians advisers not have the qualifications required by the FCA (or FSA 
as it then was) to give advice on pension transfers, there is no evidence they had any 
relevant qualifications. The only qualification of any kind which is mentioned is that Mr C of 
Caledonian is a qualified accountant.
I have seen no evidence to show Options noted this obvious risk until March 2013 when it 
reviewed its relationship with Caledonian and Professional Qualification was assessed as 
high risk. The reason for this assessment was No qualifications documented other than 
meeting note from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified accountant and 
member of Chartered Institute of Accountants.
And, despite this high risk flag, I have seen no evidence Options took any action until 
26 April 2013 when it was asked How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs 
and UK pension rules? The answer to this was initially recorded on 30 April as unknown. 
The later answer on 30 April was, By meeting with them twice and by running a workshop 
for them output from which is attached". But I do not think this is enough to show Options 
had sufficiently addressed this risk  it does nothing to show Caledonian's staff had 
adequate professional qualifications.
Indeed, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) was a point which led to 
Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless 
they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction 
which had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian. And I think it fair 
to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this action at the outset 
of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have done so to meet its 
regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
The transfer process
As mentioned above, a defined benefit transfer is a complex transaction. It also involves 
many risks, and potentially the loss of significant guaranteed benefits. For this reason, 
advice on such transactions is tightly regulated in the UK and there are standards of good 
practice that those giving the advice are expected to follow. This means several steps need 
to be taken as part of the advice process and documentation such as fact-finds, suitability 
reports, transfer analysis reports (TVAS), and illustrations generally feature in the advice 
process. The purpose is to ensure any advice given takes into account all relevant factors, is 
suitable, and the recipient of the advice is in a fully informed position, where they understand 
the benefits they are giving up and the risks associated with the transfer. 
I have seen little evidence to show Caledonian followed such a process. A TVAS was said to 
have been completed before the transfer took place. But Ive seen no evidence that it would 
have been produced by a suitably qualified and regulated expert in defined benefit pension 
transfers, or that the contents of this report was explained to Mr H such that it would help to 
inform his decision in the way a typical suitability report would.The TVAS would likely have been completed by Mr P of Business C, and it seems that 
Options itself arrived at the conclusion by May 2013 that this was not sufficient. 
On 15 May 2013 Options summarised a telephone conversation with Mr P in which they 
agreed that, moving forwards, an FCA Regulated Adviser would be providing the TVAS 
reports on all Caledonian introduced clients. I think this change was proposed in 
acknowledgement of the risks to consumers posed by the existing process.
In my opinion it would have been fair and reasonable for Options to have identified this lack 
of a proper advice process as a clear risk of consumer detriment  particularly given that 
Caledonians starting point appears to have been that the consumers it dealt with would be 
transferring out of the defined benefit scheme (i.e. it seems to have taken the view a transfer 
was suitable for all). And especially in this case as the benefits Mr H was transferring were 
significant, representing more than 15 years pensionable service thereby bringing a risk of 
greater detriment. This length of pensionable service was also considerably longer than the 
typical length of service of clients Caledonian had told Options it expected to introduce to 
them, so this risk shouldve been plain to Options to see.
Had Options taken steps to ascertain if a reasonable process was in place, it would have 
become aware no such process was in place, and consumers were not therefore fully 
informed before agreeing to make the transfer to the SIPP and the associated FPI bond 
investments.
Options reference to Illustrations in the list of questions in the 26 April 2013 email, and the 
initial answers to those questions, appears to be an acknowledgement of this risk:
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Again, this (along with the other points of query raised at the time) appears to be a point 
which led to Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from 
Caledonian unless they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer 
advice  a restriction which had the effect of no further business being introduced by 
Caledonian. And I think it fair to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had it 
taken this action at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And it certainly should have 
done so, on a fair and reasonable basis to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of 
good practice.
Volume of business
At the outset of the relationship between Options and Caledonian, Options was told that 
Caledonian would be introducing about 50 applications a month (and I note a similar volume 
was introduced once the relationship began).
I think on a fair and reasonable basis, Options should have been concerned that Caledonian 
intended to (and did) make such a high volume of introductions, relating only to occupational 
pension schemes. In my view this was a further reason for Options to conclude there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment  particularly when considered alongside the other 
points I have set out here.
Firstly, it is not clear how Caledonian would be, or was, bringing about such a high volume of 
applications without giving advice. It was simply implausible it could bring about this number 
of applications without influencing consumers actions through a positive recommendation.Options also ought to have considered Caledonians competence to deal with this volume of 
transfers  there is no evidence to show it had the significant resources this would require. 
Further, Options should have been aware of the very low likelihood the transfers would all be 
suitable. At the outset of Options relationship with Caledonian (and the time of Mr Hs 
application) COBS 19.1.6 G said:
When advising a retail client who is, or eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt out will not be suitable (my emphasis). A firm 
should only then consider a transfer or opt out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence that the transfer or opt out is in the clients 
best interest.
I accept this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser when determining 
suitability of a pension transfer, but Id expect Options, as a pensions provider, to have been 
aware of this and to have taken account of it. 
Finally, Options had cause to question the motivations of Caledonian, if it were bringing 
about such a high volume of applications. There was a clear risk that Caledonian was putting 
its own interests above those of Mr H.
Commission
I also think the level of commission that was being paid to Caledonian should have given 
Options cause for concern.
It appears Caledonian was typically taking around 7% of the transfer amount in commission, 
and Options was told this was the case at the outset of its relationship. In Mr Hs case this 
amounted to a commission fee of more than £8,000. Ive also seen evidence that 
Caledonian was paid what Options termed IFA fees (£1,250). But there is no evidence that 
Caledonian carried out the usual work associated with a defined benefit transfer that would 
justify such payments. Nor have I seen any other evidence to show there was any 
justification for such a high level of commission in the circumstances. I think this level of 
commission ought to have been another cause for Options to be concerned that Caledonian 
was putting its own interests ahead of the interests of consumers, including Mr H. And, of 
course, it was further reason to consider Caledonian might be giving advice, as commission 
at this level would have been very likely to motivate it to encourage consumers to proceed, 
through a positive recommendation.
Overall, when considered alongside the high volumes of near identical introductions of 
business being made by Caledonian, I think this level of commission raises questions about 
the motives and role of Caledonian.
Caledonians Accounts
I note that Options made repeated requests for Caledonian's accounts. It sent several emails 
to Caledonian between March and August 2012. Options also explained in its email of 
23 March 2012 that in order to comply with its own compliance procedures this was needed.
Nevertheless, on 27 April 2012 Options started accepting introductions from Caledonian 
having not received the accounts  seemingly in breach of its own procedures. Acting fairly 
and reasonably, Options should have met its own standards and should have checked Caledonians accounts at the outset before accepting any business from it. And, based on 
Caledonians conduct, it seems very unlikely accounts would ever have been forthcoming.
Caledonians reluctance to provide basic information should also have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with Caledonian. This again calls into question the competence and motivations 
of Caledonian and it also calls into question the ability of Caledonian to organise its affairs. 
It also meant Options was missing information which might be critical to the decision as to 
whether to enter into business with Caledonian.
It is notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Hs SIPP when it was still waiting for this 
information from Caledonian.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on Caledonian and draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what it 
discovered, that it should not accept business from Caledonian, including Mr Hs application. 
I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Options 
should not have accepted Mr Hs application from Caledonian.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Hs instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply should have refused to accept Mr Hs 
application. So, things should not have got beyond that. However, for completeness, I have 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Options to proceed with Mr Hs 
application.
I acknowledge Mr H signed an Options member declaration. I note this document does give 
warnings about the loss of benefits that would result in the transfer to the SIPP. And the 
indemnities sought to confirm that Mr H would not hold Options responsible for any losses 
resulting from the investments. However, I dont think this document demonstrates Options 
acted fairly and reasonably by proceeding with Mr Hs instructions.
Asking Mr H to sign a declaration absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to 
have known that Mr Hs dealings with Caledonian were putting him at significant risk was not 
the fair and reasonable thing to do. I also note that the declaration was based on Mr H 
having received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian International where, for the 
reasons I have given, Options ought to have been aware Caledonian did not have the 
competency to give such advice and there were questions about its motivations and 
integrity.
Asking Mr H to sign declarations was not an effective way for Options to meet its regulatory 
obligations, given the concerns Options ought to have identified about his introduction. So, it 
was not fair and reasonable to proceed, on the basis of these. I make this point only for 
completeness  the primary point is Mr H should simply not have been able to proceed, as 
his application should simply not have been accepted.
Furthermore, as set out above (and I detail below), I am satisfied S27 FSMA offers a further 
and alternative basis on which it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
S27 and S28 FSMA
I have set out the key sections of s27 and s28 above and have considered them carefully, in 
full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether s27 applies and 
whether a court would exercise its discretion under s28, as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the 
course of its actions that contravened the General Prohibition; and
4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and 
the authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Test 1 is clearly satisfied here  Caledonian was an unauthorised third party. Test 2 is also 
satisfied  for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied Caledonian carried out 
activities in breach of the General Prohibition  and any one regulated activity is sufficient for 
these purposes so this test would be met if Caledonian had only undertaken arranging 
(which, for the reasons I have set out, I do not think is the case). Test 3 is satisfied too  
the SIPP was opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements made, by 
Caledonian. That brings me to the final test, 4.
Having carefully considered this, I am satisfied a court would not conclude it is just and 
equitable for the agreement between Mr H and Options to be enforced in any event. I think 
very similar reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply 
here:
oA key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers 
from their own folly
oWhile SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so 
onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce 
agreements and being required to return money and other property and to pay 
compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the General Prohibition
oFor all the reasons set out above, Options should have concluded Caledonian was 
giving advice or have suspected it was (and it seems it did belatedly draw this 
conclusion); and giving advice to consumers who were not necessarily financially 
sophisticated
oAs set out above, Options was aware, or ought to have been aware that:Caledonians staff did not have the qualifications  and therefore expertise  
to give advice on defined benefit pension transfers
There was no evidence to show a proper advice process had been followed and 
consumers such as Mr H were therefore unable to make a fully informed decision 
about the transfer to the SIPP and investment
Caledonian proposed/brought about a high volume of business which it didnt 
appear to have the resources to competently handle
Caledonian was taking a high level of commission, which may not have been 
disclosed
That Caledonian had failed to provide its company accounts, despite repeated 
requests for copies of them by Options
oThe investment did not proceed until long after all these things were known to 
Options and so it was open to it to decline the investment, or at least explore the 
position with the consumer
I have therefore gone on to consider the question of fair compensation.
Fair compensation
I note Options has said that its evident consumers such as Mr H wished to transfer their 
pensions, whether through Options or another provider and would therefore have suffered 
the same losses as they did even if it had rejected their applications.
I have seen no evidence to show that Mr H would have proceeded even if Options had 
rejected his application. He was contacted by Caledonian  which was consistent with its 
business model of contacting ex-servicemen and encouraging them to consider transferring 
out of their pensions. And on communicating with Caledonian, he was encouraged to 
transfer out of his existing pension on the understanding that Caledonian would increase the 
value of his pension. Ive seen nothing to suggest he was looking to make a transfer prior to 
Caledonian contacting him.
I have not, in any event, seen any evidence that any other SIPP operator dealt with 
Caledonian. And any operator acting fairly and reasonably should have reached the 
conclusion it should not deal with Caledonian. I do not think it would be fair to say Mr H 
should not be compensated based on speculation that another SIPP operator might have 
made the same mistakes as Options.
For similar reasons, I am not persuaded Mr H should not be compensated by Options, or his 
compensation should be reduced, because I have not made the finding that the FPI bond 
investment, in itself, was not something Options should have accepted. Or because the 
benefits from Mr Hs existing pension were lost once the transfer request was made. 
If Options had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good 
industry practice, the application would not have proceeded at all. So, no transfer request or 
FPI bond investment would have been made.
So, I am satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr H suffering a significant loss to his pension. And my aim is therefore to return Mr H to the position he would likely now be in but for 
Options failings.
When considering this Ive taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment 
in Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with 
restitution/compensation. But ultimately, its for me to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr H, as far as possible, to the position he would now be in but for what I 
consider to be Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting 
his SIPP application. Had Options carried out adequate due diligence, Mr Hs transfer 
wouldnt have proceeded and I think its more likely than not that he wouldve remained a 
member of the AFPS and retained all his benefits in it. I appreciate that Options might not 
think Mr H has suffered a loss. But it cant know that until the requisite calculations have 
taken place. And I doubt very much that the benefits Mr H will get from the SIPP are 
equivalent to what he would have got from his occupational pension.
So, to put things right, I require that Options calculate fair compensation by comparing the 
current position to the position Mr H would be in if he had not transferred from his existing 
pension.
In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of any remaining investments that cannot be surrendered, if 
possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss either to Mr H direct or into his pension, depending on 
what he chooses. In either case the payment should take into account the necessary 
adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr H £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to act fairly 
and reasonably
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
as well as explaining my reasons for awarding 4:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the 
loss calculation)
I consider Mr H would have remained in his existing occupational pension if Options hadnt 
accepted his application. Options must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non- compliant pension transfers, as detailed in the 
FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of this final decision.2. Take ownership of any investments held within the SIPP which cannot be 
surrendered
Options say Mr H had surrendered his investment and transferred out of his Options SIPP 
before this complaint was made. I havent seen any supporting evidence of this, but if that is 
the case then Options will not need to carry out the steps Ive set out below relating to the 
closure of the SIPP and prevention of ongoing fees.
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining 
investment(s) need(s) to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Options should calculate an 
amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value for any investments that cannot be 
surrendered and pay that sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant investments. 
This amount should be taken into account for the loss calculation.
If Options is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment(s), the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation if the investments are not readily 
realisable (or for any portion of the investments which is not readily realisable). I appreciate 
such investments may have a realisable value in the future. So, for any investments 
assumed to be nil value Options may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the investment(s) in the future. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr H may 
receive from the investment(s) and any eventual sums he would be able to access. 
Options should meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking and any reasonable costs for 
advice required by Mr H to approve it. Options should only benefit from the undertaking once 
Mr H has been fully compensated for his loss (to be clear, this includes any loss thats in 
excess of our award limit).
If Options doesnt take ownership of the investment(s), and it/they continue to be held in 
Mr Hs SIPP, there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP. 
Mr H would not be responsible for those fees if Options hadnt accepted the transfer of his 
occupational pension into the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable that Options must 
waive any SIPP fees until such a time as Mr H can dispose of the investment(s) and close 
the SIPP.
3. Pay compensation to Mr H for any loss he has suffered as calculated in (1).
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13, 
and set out in DISP App 4, Options should:
oalways calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
oexplain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
Defined Contribution pension
ooffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
oif Mr H accepts Options offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
otake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Options may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If Mr H has paid any fees or charges from funds outside of his pension arrangements, 
Options should also refund these to Mr H. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from date 
of payment to date of refund should be added to this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Options deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Options should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
If Options believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free to 
pursue those other parties. So, if Mr Hs loss does not exceed £160,000, or if Options 
accepts my recommendation below that it should pay the full loss as calculated above, the 
compensation payable to Mr H should be contingent on the assignment by him to Options of 
any rights of action he may have against other parties in relation to his transfer to the SIPP 
and the investments if Options is to request this. Options should cover the reasonable cost 
of drawing up, and Mr Hs taking advice on and approving, any assignment required.
If the loss exceeds £160,000 and Options does not accept my recommendation to pay the 
full amount, any assignment of Mr Hs rights should allow him to retain all rights to the 
difference between £160,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
4. Pay Mr H £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to act 
fairly and reasonably
Mr H transferred his pension away from a valuable defined benefits pension to a SIPP and 
had to suffer the loss of those benefits.
I think its fair to say this would have caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience. 
Hes clearly upset about how this has all affected him and it has now gone on for some 
years. So, I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that.
determination and money award: Its my final decision that I require Options to pay Mr H 
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest payable.
Until the calculations are carried out, I dont know how much the compensation will be, and it 
may be nowhere near £160,000, which is the maximum sum that Im able to award in Mr Hs 
complaint. But Ill also make a recommendation below in the event that the compensation is 
to exceed this sum, although I cant require that Options pays this.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I also recommend that Options pays Mr H the balance. If Mr H accepts this final decision, the money award and the requirements of the decision will 
be binding on Options. My recommendation wont be binding on Options.
Further, its unlikely that Mr H will be able to accept my final determination and go to court to 
ask for the balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. 
Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this final decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require that Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP calculate and pay the award, and take the actions, set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Asa Burnett
Ombudsman