DRN-3397866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) has failed to pay them an 
account switch incentive.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L say that Mrs L switched her account to The Co-op which meant they both 
should have received a £50 incentive. They say the money wasnt paid which has resulted in 
a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs L would like the payment as 
well as compensation for what took place and for the time spent trying to find out what took 
place.
The Co-op says Mr and Mrs L didnt meet their switch terms and conditions as Mrs L applied 
for the incentive before the switch had been completed. It says it has now paid both the £50 
incentives but says it hasnt made a mistake.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us and dispute they received the incentive payment. 
They say the payment may have been for a different referral. Our investigator thought Mrs L 
applied for the incentive before the switch was completed and so The Co-op was entitled to 
reject the incentive switch. The investigator thought in any event the payments had now 
been made and that The Co-op had confirmed that there was no other referral payment.
Mr and Mrs L dont accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at The Co-ops switch incentive terms and conditions. Im satisfied 
those terms and conditions make clear that the incentive should be applied for when the 
switch is completed. I have also looked at The Co-ops records and can see that it told Mrs L 
by letter dated 12 October 2021 that the switch would start on 25 October 2021 and that it 
was completed on 3 November 2021. I can also see that Mrs L applied for the switch 
incentive on 11 October 2021 which was before the switch had been fully completed.
So, Im satisfied that Mrs L didnt meet the switch incentive terms and conditions by applying 
too early for the incentive payments. It follows that I dont think The Co-op acted unfairly or 
made a mistake by refusing initially to pay the incentive. In any event Im satisfied that 
having looked at The Co-ops records that it paid both Mr and Mrs L the switch incentive of 
£50. I dont think it clear why Mr L says that payment may have been for a separate 
incentive or that he has provided any evidence of it. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs L applied 
for the only switch incentive offered by The Co-op and have received the payment.
Overall, Im satisfied The Co-op hasnt made a mistake and so it follows that I cant fairly 
order it to pay the £50 incentives as they have been paid or pay compensation in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman