DRN-3081200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) failed to set up a 
Travel Pack on their account. They later discovered that it had not been added to their 
account and that theyd not been covered for their trips abroad and for breakdown cover 
since 2018.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she thought that Barclays apology and 
offer of £50 for failing to add the Travel Pack to Mr and Mrs Cs account was reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, overall, I dont think that Barclays needs to do anything more (than what it 
has already agreed to do) to put matters right. I will explain why.
Firstly, it does not appear to be in dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs account was meant to have 
had a Travel Pack added in 2018. And for whatever reason, this did not happen. So I 
appreciate that since 2018, Mr and Mrs C thought they had travel insurance and breakdown 
cover provided by their account, when in fact they didnt.
However, whenever things go wrong, our service is generally required to ensure that any 
financial loss suffered by the consumer is rectified by the business responsible for the 
wrongdoing. But, in this case, Mr and Mrs C have not suffered a financial loss as a result of 
Barclayss mistake. Mr and Mrs C were not charged for the Travel Pack that wasnt added to 
their account. And fortunately, Mr and Mrs C have not had to make a claim on the insurance 
products - so have not suffered an uninsured loss either. 
Had things panned out differently, and Mr and Mrs C did need to claim on the insurance 
products they thought they had, then of course it would be a different matter. But I can only 
consider what did happen  not what mayve happened. And although Mr and Mrs C have 
asked how many other Barclays customers are potentially uninsured who think they are 
insured, I can only consider and comment on the circumstances of this specific complaint.
When discovering that they were in fact not insured for breakdown cover and travel 
insurance, I appreciate that it mayve come as quite a shock to Mr and Mrs C. I say this 
especially as they say theyd been regularly relying on the Travel Pack insurance products 
since 2018. But I can also see that when Mrs C attended branch to double check she had 
the Travel Pack on her account, and discovered that it wasnt on there, although the 
customer service may not have been great, Barclays did immediately offer to put matters 
right by offering to add the Travel Pack to the account.
So when considering the circumstances, I think that Barclays did take reasonable steps to 
rectify matters quickly by immediately offering to add the Travel Pack to the account. And I 
can see that when responding to the complaint, Barclays did apologise for its error and the 
customer service Mrs C received; and offered £50 for the distress caused as well. Im also 
mindful of the fact that Barclays error has, in the circumstances, fortuitously ended up 
saving Mr and Mrs C money. 
So overall, I think that what Barclays has done to put matters right, is not unreasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Barclays Bank UK PLC need to do 
anything further - beyond what itd already agreed to do in its response to the complaint - to 
put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman