DRN-2642794
The complaint
Miss B complains about a loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited which she says 
was unaffordable.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Miss B with a loan as follows:
Date taken Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentAPRAmount 
Payable
07/09/2015 £7,500.00 60 £279.25 44.9% £16,755.00
When Miss B complained to TFS it didnt uphold her complaint. It said all appropriate 
checks were done and it could see no evidence that its loan wasnt affordable for her. TFS 
said that as Miss B intended to use this loan partly to clear other debt it would put her in a 
better financial position.  
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt think that we could uphold it. 
As Miss B disagreed with our investigators view, it has come to me to consider afresh and 
make a decision. Miss B mainly told us that she really struggled after getting the loan and 
her finances got worse from paying the high interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. And having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Miss B.
TFS asked Miss B about her income and expenditure. TFS said that it did its own 
background checks that verified Miss Bs income as £1,800 a month. Then, after asking 
her about her expenditure, including her spending on other credit commitments disclosed 
in the credit checks that TFS carried out and taking into account that the loan purpose was 
in part to pay other existing debts, it worked out that Miss B would have just under £550 in 
disposable income left to spend after paying her TFS loan. 
I think the checks TFS carried out before agreeing this loan were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. 
But it looks like there was a misunderstanding between TFS and Miss B about exactly 
which debt the TFS loan would be used to pay  and as a result the affordability figure 
that TFS worked out wasnt accurate. 
Miss B had clearly stated on her application that the loan purpose was to repay debts 
included in a debt management plan and the balance was to buy stock for a business. 
I've carefully listened to the call recordings of discussions between Miss B and TFS 
during the loan application process. 
When TFS asked her about two other outstanding loans it identified on its credit checks 
that werent included in the debt management plan I think its fair to say that Miss B 
misunderstood the question. It sounds to me like she thought TFS was referring to 
loans included in her debt management plan. So when she said that these debts were going now as TFS would be paying them off, that was incorrect since TFS was only 
paying those debts already included in the debt management plan. 
I think that TFS ought to have realised this was a miscommunication and it made an 
error when it didnt. It was a condition of its loan that it paid the debts in Miss Bs debt 
management plan before releasing the loan balance. TFS had obtained details of those 
creditors it was paying direct and so it wouldve been aware that it wasnt sending any 
money to clear the two loans that cost Miss B around £201 each month. 
But, like our investigator, I dont think this is enough of a reason on its own for me to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. I say this because I dont feel that I can fairly say that Miss B 
lost out financially as a result of the misunderstanding. Thats because the TFS loan 
would still have looked affordable even allowing for Miss B not also consolidating the 
loans that cost her £201 each month. 
Based on what Miss B told TFS about her income and expenditure, it looked like she 
still shouldve had around £350 spare cash after paying these loans and her new TFS 
loan. 
Im also mindful that if Miss B had wanted to clear all her outstanding debts (and after 
listening carefully to phone calls I can understand why TFS thought that was her 
intention) then she could have used the TFS loan balance to do that herself  and had 
she done so she would have been £201 better off each month. 
So, whilst I am very sorry to learn that she feels her financial situation was worse after 
she took out the TFS loan, I havent seen enough to make me think that it would be fair 
to hold TFS responsible for this. 
I havent seen enough to say that TFS acted towards Miss B in any other way that was unfair 
or unreasonable. 
Ive thought about what Miss B has said about the high cost of the loan  and I think there 
was a large amount of interest payable. But I've carefully listened to the call recordings when 
these loans were set up. 
TFS explained the overall cost of the loan and the monthly repayments  which Miss B 
confirmed were affordable for her. 
The loan documents set out the terms and the amounts of interest payable as well as the 
overall loan cost over the loan term. 
Miss B had to actively engage in the loan application process at each stage. 
Taking everything into account, I think Miss B was aware she was taking a high cost loan on 
terms she seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
So this isnt a reason for me to make any award against TFS. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Miss B, but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against TFS Loans 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman