DRN-3234748
The complaint
Mr E complains about a charge for damage to a car when he returned it to Black Horse 
Limited at the end of a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr E took a used car from Black Horse under a four-year hire purchase 
agreement. He returned the car to Black Horse in May 2021. 
Black Horse arranged for an inspection of the car, as is usual when a vehicle is returned at 
the end of a hire purchase agreement. The inspection reported that there were scratches to 
each of the wheels, a dent in one of the door posts, a scratch to the front bumper and a 
crack in the rear bumper. Black Horse sought a payment of nearly £1,300 to cover the 
damage, although it agreed to reduce this by £100 as a gesture of goodwill.    
Mr E did not think was fair. In particular, he objected to the charge in respect of the rear 
bumper, which amounted to nearly £1,000  by far the largest element of the charge for 
damage to the car. He contrasted that with the charge for the scratch to the front bumper, 
which was only £77. 
Black Horse said that the rear bumper was cracked, not merely scratched, and that this 
accounted for the difference. It said that the photos included in the damage report 
demonstrated this. Mr E did not accept that explanation and referred the case to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but broadly agreed with Black Horse. The 
hire purchase agreement required Mr E to return the car in good condition and allowed it to 
charge for any damage which was not attributable to wear and tear. She thought the 
damage went beyond fair wear and tear and that Black Horse could therefore charge Mr E 
for it. 
Mr E did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
He commented that, whilst he accepted that Black Horse could charge for damage, any 
charge should reflect the loss in value of the car.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 4 of the hire purchase agreement required Mr E to keep the car in good condition 
and made him responsible for any damage other than fair wear and tear. In addition, section 
7 it required him to return the car in good condition for its age and mileage and said that, if it 
was not, Mr E would have to pay the reduction in value. 
Mr E does not dispute this, and nor does he dispute that the condition of the car on its return 
was such that Black Horse was entitled to charge him for damage. His main cause for 
concern is the level of the charge for the damage to the rear bumper. 
The inspection report described the damage as a crack, not just a scratch. Whilst the extent 
and nature of the damage is not immediately obvious from the photograph of it, I think the 
photograph is consistent with the bumper being cracked. But in any event, there is no reason 
to think that the inspector did not accurately describe what he observed. That is, I am 
satisfied that the damage to the rear bumper was much more serious than the damage to 
the front bumper. 
The investigator expressed the view that the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot consider 
the level of charges. I take a different view on that, however. The level of charges was 
limited by the hire purchase agreement. Section 4 made Mr E responsible for  any loss or 
depreciation or damage and section 7 said that Mr E was responsible for any reduction in 
value. Black Horse could not charge whatever it wished. 
In this case, the charge that Black Horse made appears to relate to the replacement cost of 
the bumper, rather than to the cost of repair or depreciation in the cars value. In my view, 
that was in line with the terms of the agreement, since it represented the cost of putting right 
the damage. Section 4 in particular said that Mr E was responsible for damage, not only for 
depreciation. I think it contemplated that any charge might be based on the cost of repair, 
and I am satisfied that the charge was a fair estimate of the repair cost. For completeness, I 
should comment too that it makes no difference whether the bumper was replaced. That was 
no what the agreement required. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Black Horse Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman