DRN-3542474
The complaint
Mr M complains that, when he applied to draw his tax free cash (TFC) lump sum from his 
pension plan, Aviva Life &Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) calculated the value of the plan on 
the date it received his application form instead of the date it made the payment. He says if 
Aviva had used the later date, he would have received around an extra £880 TFC.
Mr M also complains about the length of time that Aviva took to pay him. He says it wasnt a 
reasonable timeframe.
What happened
Mr M held a pension plan, which was part of his employers group plan, with Aviva. In 
June 2019, he told Aviva that he wanted to draw the maximum TFC from the plan and put 
the residual fund into income drawdown. After he received an illustration and all the 
necessary documentation, he submitted an application on 5 July 2019  which was received 
by Aviva on 9 July 2019. But the payment wasnt made into his bank account until 
18 July 2019.
So subsequently Mr M complained. He said that he believed the application could have been 
processed almost immediately, but in any case he thought it was reasonable for Aviva to 
have used the date it paid the funds as the date that should have been used to calculate the 
fund value. He said this would have provided him with more TFC  instead of Aviva 
benefitting from the subsequent increase in his fund value. 
Aviva said it processed the claim on 17 July having received the application on 9 July 2019. 
It said it had used the date that all the required documentation had been received as the 
calculation date  in line with its usual process. So it didnt think it needed to make any 
corrections to the payment. 
But Mr M remained unhappy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because he didnt think Aviva had caused an unreasonable delay and had completed the 
withdrawal in accordance with its processes. 
Mr M said his complaint was more about the fact that Aviva should have used the date it 
completed the payment as the valuation point of his TFC amount. He said this would have 
led to him receiving an extra £880  in line with the increase in the value of his plan.  
The investigator explained that, when considering if Aviva had caused any delays, he 
needed to put Mr M back as close to the position he would now be in without any delay. 
So, even if he had concluded that Aviva could have made the payment earlier he would only 
have recommended lost interest as compensation not a loss of investment growth  as he 
thought Aviva had used the correct valuation of the date it received Mr Ms application. But in 
any case, he didnt think Aviva had caused an unreasonable delay in this case.
Mr M said it had taken Aviva seven working days to make the payment instead of the five 
days he considered reasonable. He said that meant Aviva had continued to profit from 
any unreasonable delay, but he thought he should benefit from that and not Aviva.
The investigator said he had worked out it had taken six working days for Aviva to send 
Mr M his TFC, but as Mr M still didnt accept his view the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this isnt 
the outcome Mr M would have wanted, and Ive seen how strongly he feels about this 
matter, but I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here. So Ill explain my reasons.
Which date should Aviva have used to calculate the value of Mr Ms plan and TFC?
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms drawdown application form which was stamped as being received 
by Aviva on 9 July 2019. The application form was complete in its request for Mr M to draw 
all his available TFC  but no further income. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
Aviva had to ask Mr M for any further information or that there were any outstanding 
questions regarding the withdrawal. So I can understand why that date was used to calculate 
the value of the fund because the application form, under section 3.3 - When do you want us 
to act on your instructions? stated that, we will normally act on your instructions on the next 
working day following receipt of this form together with any other requirements.
So I think that was quite clear in that Aviva set out its process for how it would calculate the 
values of the plan. When it received a completed application or, if later, it received the 
answer to any outstanding queries, it would calculate the fund value at that point. Mr M says 
that Aviva should have used the date just before it made the payment to him as that allowed 
for the increase in the fund value to be reflected in the payment he received  and I can 
understand why Mr M would say that. 
However, Aviva says that it would prefer to fix the valuation at a point in time or it would 
constantly need to check with a consumer about any valuation falls if it simply calculated the 
valuation prior to payment. It says Mr M wouldnt be happy with the situation if the value of 
his plan had fallen significantly from the time he notified it of his request until payment was 
made and it used that later valuation date.
I understand the point Aviva is making here and it seems practical to me that it chooses a 
point in time for the valuation, so that everyone involved in the transaction is fully aware of 
the amount that will be paid  and it wont fluctuate. But it isnt for this service to interfere 
with the everyday commercial decisions that a business might make  thats for Aviva to 
decide. What I would expect is for Aviva to make Mr M aware of its process along the way  
which Im satisfied it did from the section in the application form above. I know Mr M might 
prefer Aviva to calculate things in a different way and use a later date for its valuation, but 
that doesnt mean that Aviva is wrong to do things the way it has set out. 
It does however need to make clients aware of those processes  which I think it has done 
here.  
Did Aviva cause any delay in making the TFC payment? Im not aware of any regulative guideline for how long such withdrawals should take to 
process. And I note Aviva made no guarantee to pay the TFC by a specific time. The only 
reference Ive been able to find to a timeframe for the withdrawal came from Mr Ms 
drawdown application form which said that, we aim to pay out any lump sum within three to 
five working days afterwards. 
Ive also taken into account that, while Mr M believes the payment could have been made 
almost immediately after his application was processed, he has referred to what he thinks is 
a reasonable time to make the payment.
So looking at the situation here Ive considered what I think was a reasonable time in which 
Aviva should have made the payment. I think, on balance, five working days ought to be 
seen as reasonable and Ive calculated that the TFC was paid into Mr Ms account on the 7th 
working day. So it could be argued that the payment could have been made slightly quicker. 
I wanted to understand Avivas reasoning for any possible delay. So I asked it to explain, 
and it confirmed that, and due to the large amount went through 3 levels of authorisation to 
ensure accuracy and the details were correct. As this took until 18 July to confirm and make 
the payment it was then done by Faster Payment and confirmed as received by the 
customer the next day 19 July.
Had this been done through normal channels and processed within 5 working days  on 
16 July  this would then have proceeded by BACS which would have taken 3-5 working 
days to clear which could have then meant non-receipt until 23 July. As such the customer 
physically received his money sooner than he would have if this had transacted by our usual 
BACS method.
I think its reasonable that the amount of TFC here required additional checks for the safety 
of both parties. I also think the delay wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances, but Im 
satisfied that, having identified that it had taken slightly longer than the time frame suggested 
by the application form, Aviva mitigated its position by processing the payment quicker than 
usual in order to claw back any slight delays. In the circumstances I think thats a 
reasonable solution to any potential delay and so I think in this case the overall time it took 
Aviva to process the payment wasnt unreasonable and didnt lead to Mr M suffering any 
investment loss. 
Summary
In my view Aviva made it clear in its application form that it would calculate the value of 
Mr Ms plan when it had received all the necessary requirements. That meant the calculation 
was carried out on 9 July 2019. Im satisfied Mr M was made aware of this and, even if he 
thinks Aviva should have used a different date, that doesnt mean Avivas process was 
incorrect or unreasonable. I have some sympathy for Mr M that as a result of the process 
used he didnt benefit from the increase in the value of his fund, but I think Aviva treated him 
fairly by setting out the means by which it would calculate the fund on a specific date.
And, having considered all the information available, I dont think Aviva caused a significant 
delay in its payment of the TFC, and where it could be conceived a slight delay had 
occurred, it changed the payment process to ensure Mr M received the funds quicker than 
he would have done using the normal payment methods. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman