DRN-4158082
The complaint
Mr W complains about a cash advance fee applied to his credit card account by Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr W opened a credit card account with Virgin Money. In July 2022     
Mr W used his Virgin Money credit card to send a payment of £3,952 to an account with a 
business Ill call P.  This was a transaction Mr W said hed made several times before. But 
on reviewing his credit card statement he saw that Virgin Money had applied a cash advance 
fee of £199.10 for the transaction. 
Mr W queried the fee as he said it wasnt a cash advance but the settlement of an invoice. 
He said he was told by Virgin Money that P would deem the transaction as being a cash 
advance hence the cash advance fee. He was advised to contact P and if the transaction 
was returned under the same reference number, theyd refund the cash advance fee.
 
Mr W said he took this action but when he asked for the fee to be refunded Virgin Money 
said this couldnt be done as the refund didnt show the same date or reference number as 
the initial transaction. Mr W complained to Virgin Money about this.
Virgin Money said they revised their terms and conditions about cash advances in August 
2021. In July 2022 they said they sent a reminder to Mr W about the new terms going live 
that same month. The terms expanded the circumstances under which theyd apply a cash 
transaction fee. Virgin Money advised that the new terms meant it would classify certain 
transactions as a cash advance and gave examples. 
And this meant that certain transactions Mr W had made in the past would now be deemed 
to be a cash advance as was the case with this transaction. Virgin Money said theyd 
explained to Mr W how he could get a refund of the fee. But for a refund to be made it 
needed to have the same reference number as the original transaction. But it didnt. Virgin 
Money as a gesture of goodwill waived a small interest charge and offered Mr W £25.
Mr W wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys response as it wasnt in his control to be able to get 
the same reference number, but the same amount as the original transaction had been 
refunded by P.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Virgin Money hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in their actions with 
Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr W feels that the charge is unfair as hes shown the same amount that 
incurred the fee has been returned to him.  But having considered the evidence Im not 
upholding this complaint as Im unable to say that Virgin Money applied the fee incorrectly or 
unfairly, because the fee has been applied in line with the relevant terms and conditions. Or 
that theyve acted unfairly and unreasonably in their actions with Mr W.
Virgin Money cant provide the exact email which was sent to Mr W  about the proposed 
changes that should have come into effect in August 2021. Instead, theyve provided a 
template of what the email would have said and have shown that a cash advance fee 
reminder was sent to Mr W in mid-July 2022. So, Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that Mr W was provided with proper notice of the changes to the terms and conditions that 
should have come into effect on 5 August 2021.
The reminder explained that in addition to the withdrawing of cash or buying foreign currency 
or travellers cheques, a cash advance fee would be applied when making: 
Gambling and spread betting transactions
International money transfers
Paying off other borrowing (like making payments to wards a loan or mortgage or 
using your card to pay another credit card instead of doing a Balance Transfer)
Adding money to a prepaid card, virtual card or e-money account
Investment activity like binary or share trading.
And explained that this could mean that for some transactions Mr W had  made in the past, 
he could now see a cash advance fee applied. The reminder also provided online help for 
any questions about the changes.
I can see the transaction made by Mr W was to a business that provides an online electronic 
money (e-money) payment transfer system that allows its users to make and receive 
payments online. And I think the proposed changes show that a cash advance fee can be 
applied to an e-money account. So, I think it was clear that money sent to an e money 
account could be considered as a cash advance. And I can see that Mr W has accepted this.
But when Mr W questioned Virgin Money about the fee and was told that it was the merchant 
P that deemed the transaction to be a cash advance, he asked how he could get the fee 
removed. I can hear in the call that Mr W was told that the fee could be refunded if hed the 
transaction that had generated the fee reversed. But for the refund to be made Virgin Money 
said the reversed transaction had to show the same reference number and date itd been 
made. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration as P has returned the same amount to him. But the 
date and reference number differ from the original transaction so Virgin Money havent 
refunded the fee. Virgin Money has shown the initial transaction was made 22 July 2022, but 
the transaction for the same amount that was returned to Mr W is dated 17 August 2022. 
And the transactions have different reference numbers, so I cant say that Virgin Money has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably as they cant reconcile the transactions as being the same 
and the one the cash advance fee was applied to. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but I think its for him to work with P to 
provide the details that show the transaction that caused the cash advance fee to be 
incurred has been returned to him. So I cant say that Virgin Money has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman