DRN-3751592
The complaint
Ms B complains that Arrow Global Limited failed to respond to balance requests and
settlement offers she made.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
Ms B has told us she has an account with Arrow and approached it in 2017 and 2019 to 
find out how much she owed. Ms B has explained that despite making several attempts to 
contact Arrow she was unable to find out how much she owed. Ms B checked her credit 
file but didnt find an entry for Arrow with an outstanding balance. Ms B says this led her to 
assume she didnt owe Arrow any money.
Arrow says that because Ms B hadnt repaid the outstanding balance it referred her 
account to solicitors who sought a County Court Judgement (CCJ). Ms B has told us she 
was unaware of the situation until shortly before the court date. As a result, Ms B says she 
had to borrow money at short notice and repay the balance in full to avoid a CCJ.
Ms B complained to solicitors acting for Arrow but it didnt agree it had acted unfairly. The 
solicitors apologised Ms B had been given some misleading information during a call. 
Arrow also issued a response to Ms Bs complaint. Arrow said it sent Ms B a letter to 
advise it had instructed solicitors and had no record of earlier requests for settlement 
figures.
An investigator at this service upheld Ms Bs complaint in part and asked Arrow to pay her
£150. The investigator thought Arrow couldve done more to notify Ms B about its intention 
to seek a CCJ. Both Ms B and Arrow disagreed and asked to appeal. Ms B said the level of 
compensation awarded failed to reflect the impact of the situation on her. And Arrow didnt 
agree it had treated Ms B unfairly. As neither party accepted, Ms Bs complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different decision to the investigator. Im sorry to disappoint Ms B but I havent
been persuaded that Arrow treated her unfairly. Ill explain why.
Ms B has explained she tried to find out how much she owed in 2017 and 2019 by writing 
to Arrow and has provided copies. I dont doubt Ms B sent the letters, but Arrow has 
explained it has no record of receiving those letters. Ive looked at the letters provided and 
can see they contained Ms Bs current address. But it appears Ms B hadnt previously 
updated her address with Arrow or its agents. Ms Bs current address was only found by 
Arrow after its agents carried out a tracing activity more recently.
Arrow says it didnt receive the letters Ms B sent. And even if it had, I wouldnt expect 
Arrow to respond to an unknown address without first verifying it with the customer. I also 
think its reasonable to say that there were other options for contacting Arrow which has 
publicly available telephone numbers and a website containing other contact information. 
So if Ms B didnt receive a response, Im satisfied there were other options for contacting 
Arrow for the information required.
Arrows agents carried out a trace to find Ms Bs up to date address in December 2020. 
From that point, Im satisfied it was writing to the correct address. But I think the absence 
of correspondence from Arrow until that point was due to Ms Bs address not being 
updated.
Arrows agent traced Ms B in December 2020 and says it sent various letters to her before 
the account was returned in March 2021. Arrow says it then took the decision to refer the 
debt to its solicitors to enforce in court. Im satisfied that was fair in the circumstances.
Ms B says Arrow failed to give reasonable notice of its decision to seek a CCJ. But Arrow 
wrote to Ms B in September 2021 to say the account had been passed to its solicitors. And 
Arrows solicitors say it sent Ms B several letters prior to issuing a claim form in December 
2021. In my view, Arrow and its solicitors did provide reasonable notice of its intention to 
pursue Ms B in court.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms B as I can see how distressing the situation has been. But as 
Im satisfied Arrow dealt with her complaint fairly I dont intend to tell it to take further action.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
make before I made my final decision. Arrow responded to confirm it had nothing further to 
add. Ms B told us she didnt accept but didnt provide any new information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Arrow dealt with Ms Bs 
complaint fairly so Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman