Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mrs H says Provident Personal Credit Limited hasnt administered her loan correctly. Mrs H 
says that:
The payment information Provident has is not correct. The payments she has made
have not been properly applied to her loan, so she owes less than what Provident
says she does.
It is showing on her credit report that she has missed payments. This is not correct
as she has been in an arrangement to pay and has had payment waivers.
Provident didnt properly correct her credit file when it said it would.
Provident didnt inform her that the loans were being transferred to a third-party
collection agent.
All of these issues have caused her distress, inconvenience and negatively impacted her 
ability to get credit and other financial support. She feels she should receive compensation 
for this. 
What happened
Mrs H has taken 13 loans with provident. I understand this complaint only concerns the last 
two loans she took and which remain on her credit report. Some of the information I have 
been provided about this lending is below:
Loan 12 (ending in 699) was started on 12 January 2012 for £1,000.
Loan 13 (ending in 799) was taken on 28 September 2012 for £1,000.
Loan 13 is still outstanding. 
Provident initially considered Mrs Hs complaint and partly upheld it. It said that it was unable 
to verify what had been discussed with its agent about any waiver of payments. But it agreed 
to update her credit file to show that the loans were in an arrangement to pay rather than 
that payments had been missed. It acknowledged that it should have informed Mrs H that 
her account was being transferred to a collection agent. 
Mrs H remained unsatisfied and brought her complaint to this service
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. He agreed that Provident could have done 
better. But he felt that it should put things right in a different way. He thought it should:
Remove all of the late payment markers from Mrs Hs credit file.
Bring the account back from the third-party collection agency and pay her £100 for
the upset not informing her it was being transferred to a collection agent caused her.
DRN-3012310Page 2 of 3It was reasonable to assume that Mrs H has made the payments she said she had,
and Provident didnt have complete payment records, so her outstanding account
balance should be reduced by £300.
Provident agreed this was a reasonable way to resolve the complaint. Mrs H initially 
accepted this outcome but there was some further correspondence about the treatment of 
her credit file. And she also then thought the compensation should be higher. Provident 
didnt agree to increase the amount it should pay. 
This dispute was passed to a second adjudicator. This adjudicator also upheld the 
complaint. She said that:
Providents offer to remove any missed payment markers about loans 699 and 799 
from Mrs Hs credit report for the period of July 2020 to January 2021 (the period 
over which the complaint was about) was reasonable.
As it couldnt be reasonably established what Mrs H had paid Providents agreement 
to reduce her outstanding loan balance by £300 was also reasonable
Overall, largely because it hadnt been clear after the first adjudicators opinion, she 
thought it was fair to award £200 (a further £100) compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the problems with her loans had caused Mrs H. 
I understand that Provident has now amended Mrs Hs credit file, reduced her loan balance 
by £300, and paid £100 compensation for any trouble and upset these issued have caused 
her. 
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that she thought as it was clear 
what she had paid and so the whole of the loan balance should be written off. And the 
compensation award for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused should be far 
higher. 
And Provident also requested that an ombudsman consider the complaint, but it didnt raise 
any further issues.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ill firstly say that Ive read all of the correspondence about this complaint and I understand 
Mrs Hs strong feelings on this issue. Its also clear that Provident doesnt entirely agree with 
the approach we have taken here. But, Im not going to change the outcome we have 
reached. I hope this doesnt cause any further distress and that my explanations are helpful 
to both parties. 
Both sides have agreed that any missed payment markers should be removed from Mrs Hs 
credit file for the loans ending in 699 and 799 over the period of July 2020 to January 2021. I 
agree this is reasonable and I wont comment further on this issue. 
Turning to the outstanding balance on the loan ending in 799. Mrs H says that she made 
payments to her loan which werent credited. This is because the agent only credited Page 3 of 3payment for her husbands loans rather than for both of them. Mrs H says payments were 
made to both loans at the same time. 
Whilst I dont disbelieve what Mrs H says, she hasnt been able to provide any further 
evidence that she did make the repayments. Provident also hasnt been able to provide its 
local branch records to confirm what was, or wasnt, repaid. So, I cant say for certain what 
the loan balance should be. 
But due to the conversations between the first adjudicator, Mrs H and Provident a balance 
reduction of £300 was agreed. Having thought about all of the above, and having read these 
communications, I think its fair to reduce the loan balance by £300. I dont think the loan 
should be written off. 
Its clear that these issues have caused Mrs H some trouble and upset. And Provident has 
acknowledged that it could have done better in the way it has communicated with her. In 
particular it didnt take the steps it had agreed to take very quickly, and it couldve been 
clearer in the way it communicated with Mrs H. She has received communications from a 
number of third-party collection agencies which wouldve been confusing and upsetting, 
given the ongoing complaint. 
That said Provident is entitled to request repayment of the amounts it has lent. And Mrs H 
has been in arrears with these repayments for a significant length of time. Having thought 
about all of these things I think the £200 compensation award is fair. 
Lastly, I would remind Provident of its responsibility to treat Mrs H fairly going forward. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt taken the steps below it should so now. These are total amounts, for example if 
Provident has already paid £100 compensation it only needs to pay £100 now. Provident 
doesnt have to do, or pay, anything twice, if it has already taken the steps below: 
Pay £200 compensation directly to Mrs H.
Ensure any missed payments about any of Mrs Hs loans for the period of July 2020
to January 2021 are removed from her credit file.
Reduce her outstanding loan balance by £300.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Provident Personal Credit 
Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman