DRN-1726881
complaint
Mr T says Emergency Cash Limited, trading as wizzcash.com , irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans wizzcash.com provided Mr T from June to 
September 2016
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ts complaint and felt wizzcash.com had lent to 
him responsibly, so he didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T disagreed so, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Wizzcash.com needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that wizzcash.com was required 
to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
why I think wizzcash.coms checks were proportionate for Mr Ts loan
For Mr Ts first loan he needed to repay an average of £160 per month, and a maximum 
of £160.66 during the term of the loan. For his second loan Mr T needed to pay 158.43, and 
a maximum of 158.47 during the term of the loan. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr T provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr T said he had a monthly income of £2000.00 and had regular monthly outgoings of 
around £1250.00. This left him with a disposable income of £750.00. So, it looked like he 
had enough disposal income to make his payments under this loan agreement.
At this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable of wizzcash.com to 
have relied on what Mr T told them about his expenditure. It is of course possible that had Mr 
T taken further lending then wizzcash.com, as a reasonable lender ought to have carried out 
further, more in-depth checks. But considering Mr T only took two loans, I dont think it had 
yet reached the stage where wizzcash.com needed to carry out further checks, such as 
verifying this information.
I have seen, however, that wizzcash.com did obtain Mr Ts credit report during their checks. 
Ive looked through this report and I havent found there was anything significant in this  
such as other short-term lending commitments or repeated of defaults on his accounts - 
which ought to have led wizzcash.com to complete further checks or refused his loan 
application. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely wizzcash.com was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr T mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Ts circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for wizzcash.com to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments wizzcash.com did for Mr 
Ts loans were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for Mr Ts loans was 
reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Mr T, but I want to assure 
him that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me.
final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman