DRN-3162544
The complaint
Ms D and Mr F complain about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) for declining their claim for
damage to their flat roof, following Storm Bella in late 2020. They want AXA to settle their 
claim and pay for repairs to the roof and repairs to their home caused by ingress of water. 
What happened
In 2017, Ms D and Mr F had an extension built on their home. This extension had a flat roof,
with a fibreglass surface.
In late 2020 Storm Bella hit the UK, resulting in high wind and rain conditions in the area of
Ms D and Mr Fs home.
On 5 January 2021, Ms D and Mr F noticed water penetrating through their extension ceiling.
They contacted AXA and lodged a claim under their home insurance. When Ms D spoke to
AXA, the agent she spoke to checked weather reports and acknowledged that there had
been storm conditions recorded in their area.
Ms D and Mr F went up to their roof to inspect the top surface and saw an area of damage,
which they believed to have been caused in the recent storm. They applied a temporary
repair to the area with water resistant paint and flashing.
AXA sent a contractor to inspect the roof on 13 January 2021. The contractor went up to the
roof and took photographs of the roof. These showed that the roof was new and in overall
good condition but noted a recent repair and a small puncture to the roof. The contractor did
not lift the temporary repair to look underneath.
On the basis of the contractors resulting report, AXA then declined the claim. It concluded 
that the puncture was not storm related and that the design of the roof allowed water to pool. 
It did not address the temporary repair.
Ms D and Mr F complained.
AXA sent its final response to their complaint. AXA acknowledged that there had been
delays in receiving the report but maintained the decision to decline the claim. It noted that
there were punctures to the roof but said that these were not from storm damage.
Ms D and Mr F then complained to us.
Our investigator did not uphold their complaint. This was because the weather reported to us
was below the criteria defined in the policy so he concluded there had not been a qualifying
storm.
Ms D and Mr F did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I made some further enquiries of the parties and issued a provisional decision in October 
2021. 
In that decision, I explained that I thought that, on balance, there had been a storm and the 
damage to the roof was of the type caused by storms. I considered that AXA had not 
demonstrated that the damage, particularly the damage underneath the temporary repair 
placed by Ms D and Mr F, was not caused by a storm and so it was unfair to decline the 
claim. I therefore considered that the complaint ought to be upheld and AXA ought to settle 
Ms D and Mr Fs claim. I did not provisionally award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Both parties responded to that provisional decision. Ms D and Mr F responded correcting 
part of my understanding about what they had told AXA about the temporary repair. They 
also detailed the impact that the decision to decline their claim had had on them. 
AXA offered to send a second contractor to now assess the damage under the temporary 
repair. 
Following those comments, I wrote to both parties indicating that I did not think it was 
reasonable for AXA to send a second contractor, this long after the damage occurred. I also 
explained that, based on their described impact I now thought that compensation for distress 
and inconvenience ought to be paid to Ms D and Mr F. 
Ms D and Mr F have responded, and advised they have nothing further to add. They accept 
my provisional decision. 
AXA has not provided any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision, as supplemented by my subsequent email, I am 
satisfied that there was a storm (which was initially accepted by AXA) at the relevant time, 
and that at least part of the damage to the roof was puncture damage, which is of the type 
caused by storms. I also explained that, based on the photographic evidence I am satisfied 
that the damage occurred at the time of the storms. 
I therefore consider that the tests we apply in these cases are met, and that AXA was wrong 
to not inspect the damage under the temporary repair, and then to reject the claim. 
The comments received subsequently do not affect this provisional view and so I adopt my 
provisional decision, as supplemented by my email of 2 November 20212 and this decision, 
as my final decision. I uphold Ms D and Mr Fs complaint.   
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA must now settle Ms D and Mr Fs claim, in line with the 
relevant policy terms. 
Having received evidence of the impact that this matter has had on Ms D and Mr F, I also 
consider that AXA must pay them £500 compensation to reflect their distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given in my provisional decision, my email to the parties of 2 November 
2021, and above, I uphold Ms D and Mr Fs complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle Ms D and Mr Fs claim in line with the relevant policy terms; and
Pay Ms D and Mr F £500 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman