DRN-2829822
The complaint
Miss C complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss C complained about two instalment loans she took out with cash4unow.
Heres a table showing loan details:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
126/04/2016 20/05/2016 3 £300.00 £136.23
218/06/2016 outstanding 6 £300.00 £84.66
When Miss C complained to cash4unow it didnt uphold her complaint  although it made a 
one-off goodwill offer to settle the complaint in order to avoid the complaint having to come 
to this service. Miss C wasnt happy settling the complaint on the terms the lender proposed 
so she brought her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss C and cash4unow told us about these loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for cash4unow to ask Miss C for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Miss C provided or 
the information cash4unow shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss C had told cash4unow. Or that the number of loans 
she took, the amounts they were for or the period of time she was borrowing meant her loan 
history, on its own, shouldve shown cash4Unow she mightve been experiencing underlying 
financial difficulty.
Although Miss C told us shed been unwell when she arranged the loans, our adjudicator 
explained that this wasnt something wed have expected cash4unow to have known about 
or found out. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint.  
Miss C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. Miss C mainly said 
that she believes these loans shouldnt have been issued as she had lots of other 
outstanding loans with other providers of high cost credit at the time. And shes unhappy that 
cash4unow hasnt accepted responsibility for the complaint as other lenders have done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about everything Ive 
seen and been told, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Cash4unow provided Miss C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
cash4unow needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Miss C before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow says it agreed to Miss Cs applications after carrying out a comprehensive and 
robust creditworthiness assessment which included searching her credit file and asking 
Miss C to declare her income and tell cash4unow what she spent on other monthly 
outgoings such as food, mortgage, travel and other payments. 
Cash4unow says the information it gathered about Miss C showed that the amounts she 
asked for were relatively low in comparison to her stated income and Miss Cs credit profile 
indicated that she wasnt having issues managing the credit commitments she already had. 
It said these loan balances shouldve been affordable for her - and in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think cash4unow was wrong to lend Miss C loan 1. This was her first loan with 
cash4unow and so I think cash4unow was entitled to rely on the information Miss C 
provided. 
This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing. And it appears that there 
wasnt anything else shown in the checks cash4unow did that suggested otherwise. 
At this early stage, Miss C didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
cash4unow to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in 
the information Miss C provided, or the information cash4unow shouldve been aware of, 
which meant that cash4unow shouldve taken steps to verify the information Miss C had 
declared. So I cant uphold Miss Cs complaint about loan 1.loan 2
Miss C had paid loan 1 early  within less than a month of taking it out. And there was a gap 
of nearly another month between Miss C taking out the second loan and paying loan 1. So 
I dont think cash4unow had any reason to think that she had serious money problems or 
that it shouldnt lend again to Miss C. 
Cash4unow asked Miss C to update the information she provided about her finances each 
time she applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for 
Miss C. There wasnt anything to indicate to cash4unow that Miss C had found it hard to pay 
loan 1  or that paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. So I dont feel I've seen 
enough to be able to uphold Miss Cs complaint about loan 2.
Id like to reassure Miss C that in coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about what 
she has said in response to the adjudicators recommendation about the number of other 
loans she had. I cant see that reflected in the credit information that cash4unow obtained. 
But when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide 
the same level of detail that a persons own credit search will. And it isnt necessarily up to 
date  that can depend on when other creditors have reported information and when its 
been recorded by the credit reference agency. A lender might only see a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some information might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware 
that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, 
information about all other short term loans may not have been identified by a credit check 
done by cash4unow. 
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect a reasonable lender to be unduly concerned about. It 
was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for cash4unow 
to agree to lend. If Miss C didnt tell cash4unow all the details of her financial situation, then 
I cant fairly say that it ought to have known about this information. And the lending decisions 
cash4unow made dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on 
when deciding whether to provide these loans.  
I accept that in reality Miss Cs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information cash4unow says it obtained. Like the 
adjudicator, Im very sorry to learn that Miss C wasnt well at the time she arranged these 
loans. I can appreciate that this meant her circumstances generally must have been difficult, 
making this a stressful and anxious time for her. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that cash4unow did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Miss C. Each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to be 
identical in every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. Ive looked at 
the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases 
doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Miss C has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. I take this opportunity to remind cash4unow (or any third party if the debt is sold on) that it 
should discuss payment options with Miss C and treat her fairly and sympathetically if there 
is still an outstanding balance on loan 2 and Miss C needs further time to pay what she still 
owes. 
And if Miss C would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman