DRN-2898631
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says he 
already had a large amount of other debt that he was struggling to repay when he took the 
loans. So, it should have been clear to Mr Lender that the loans werent affordable.  
 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr S between 
February 2016 and July 2016. Some of the information I have been provided about the loans 
is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedinstalments 
(months)amount 
borroweddate ended
1 01/02/2016 6 £500 08/06/2016
2 08/06/2016 6 £500 27/07/2016
3 29/07/2016 6 £750 05/04/2017
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Mr Lender shouldve made 
better checks before approving loan 3. And these checks wouldve shown it was 
irresponsible to lend to her. Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
at this stage of the lending relationship it was reasonable for it to rely on the 
information that Mr S supplied; and 
the pattern of lending itself didnt show that Mr S was in financial difficulty; and 
none of the checks that it did showed that Mr S was having financial problems, the 
bank statements it received didnt show this. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. But, for the avoidance of 
doubt, I think the checks Mr Lender made for these loans were proportionate. And these 
showed the loans were likely affordable for Ms S. So, I think its decisions to lend were 
reasonable. Im not upholding Mr S complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Loan 3 was Mr S third loan in a relatively short period of time. And the amounts he was 
borrowing had increased. I can see from the information that Mr Lender has supplied that he 
did want to borrow a higher amount, but Mr Lender was unwilling to lend this. All of this, to 
me, suggests potential financial difficulty.  
So, I think Mr Lender couldve realised that this may be the case and that Mr S may have 
some longer term, or more serious, financial problems rather than just using the loans to 
help with a temporary cash flow problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned 
about whether it knew enough about Mr S true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to verify some of the information Mr S was 
providing and try to find out as much as possible about his situation. With a focus on his 
other borrowing. This is to make sure Mr S was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably.
I dont think Mr Lender did this. I think it largely relied on what Mr S told it about his income 
and expenditure. And some credit reference agency information that it obtained. So, I need 
to think about what Mr Lender wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr S has provided some information about his financial circumstances which includes his 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Mr Lender couldve seen at the time. 
And I note that Mr Lender was provided with some details of another bank account. But from 
what I can see Mr S frequently transferred large amounts from the account Mr Lender saw to 
another account. So, Mr Lender knew it didnt have the full picture here. Again, this supports 
my decision that it should have looked a bit further into Mr S circumstances.
As our adjudicator said, if it had done this it would have seen that Mr S actual income in the 
run up to loan 3 was much lower than what Mr Lender had recorded. And this made the 
highest repayment for loan 3, to be just under a third of his income, which, in my view and 
the circumstances of this case is a very high amount. And it was clear that Mr S was using other short-term lenders. He had borrowed and repaid 
a significant amount to these shortly before the taking the third Mr Lender loan. He was also 
making significant repayments to other credit providers. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think it wouldve seen Mr S wouldnt have been able repay loan 3 in a 
sustainable way. This leads me to think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given the loan to Mr S 
and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr S complaint about loan 3.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr S loan 3, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr S loan 3.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then 
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file in relation 
to loan 3. *HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr S complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman