DRN-2926304
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about the length of time Standard Life Assurance Limited took to 
request the transfers of their self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) from their previous 
provider.
Mrs and Mr S are represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
On 11 February 2020 Mrs and Mr Ss financial adviser sent an application to transfer their 
SIPP accounts to Standard Life. The applications were received on 12 February 2020.
Standard Life requested the transfers from their previous provider on 25 February 2020 for 
Mrs Ss SIPP and on 26 February 2020 for Mr Ss SIPP.
The transfer value for both Mrs and Mr Ss SIPP was received on 13 March 2020 and was 
applied to their new SIPP accounts on 16 March 2020.
I understand that Mrs and Mr S applied to transfer their ISA accounts at the same time as 
the SIPP transfers, but the ISA transfers were processed more quickly. Their representative 
said he felt the SIPP transfers should have been processed at the same time.
Standard Life did not uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. It explained that it can take up to ten 
working days to request a SIPP transfer. As the transfer of Mrs and Mr Ss SIPP accounts 
was requested within 10 working days it said it did not think it had acted incorrectly or treated 
Mrs and Mr S unfairly in this matter.
Mrs and Mr Ss representative was not satisfied with Standard Lifes response and referred 
the matter to this service.
Our investigator noted that the June 2006 Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of 
good practice set out that requests relating to transfers should be completed within 10 
working days. As both SIPP transfer requests were made within 10 working days our 
investigator said she didnt think she could reasonably find that Standard Life had unduly 
delayed the transfers.
Mrs and Mr Ss representative was not satisfied with our investigators response. He said the 
business he worked for had a seven-day service level agreement with Standard Life, but he 
was unable to provide anything to evidence this. He also said he was aware that other 
businesses will process client transfers in 50% less time than SL and said he felt it was 
unfair that Mrs and Mr Ss SIPP transfers had sat with a provider for circa 10 working days.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Standard Life has acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill explain 
why. 
I am sympathetic to Mrs and Mr Ss position and I agree that the ten working days it took 
Standard Life to send the SIPP transfer forms is longer than I would normally expect a 
business to take. Standard Life has explained that it usually seeks to achieve a five working 
day internal service standard for transfer requests, but this service level is not binding, and it 
can take longer if, for example, demand is higher than normal.
I am mindful that at the time the transfer requests were made stock markets had started to 
fall in response to the news about Covid-19 and many investors were adjusting their 
portfolios. (I understand that Mrs and Mr Ss adviser revised the instruction he had given 
Standard Life when the transfers were requested and said that money transferred to the 
SIPPs should not be invested when it was received and should remain in cash.)
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr Ss representative feels that as the ISA transfer requests Mrs 
and Mr S made were dealt with more quickly, it should have been possible for Standard Life 
to have dealt with the SIPP transfers as efficiently. However, as Standard Life explained, the 
SIPP and ISA transfers were dealt with by different departments and it hadnt given any 
guarantee that the transfer requests would be processed at the same time.
As our investigator noted, the June 2006 Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of 
good practice set out that requests relating to transfers should be completed within 10 
working days. I accept that 10 working days is longer than most businesses now take to 
request transfers, but as the requests were made within two weeks of having been received 
by Standard Life, I dont think it acted incorrectly or caused an undue delay.
I note that Mrs and Mr Ss adviser says that if Standard Life had made the SIPP transfer 
requests on the same day as the ISA transfer requests, and the investments had been sold 
down at the same time as their ISA holdings, the transfer value of Mrs and Mr Ss SIPPs 
would have been nearly £12,000 higher. However, I am mindful that the transfer requests 
were sent to their previous provider on 25 and 26 February, but the transfer values for the 
SIPPs were not received by Standard Life until 13 March, over two weeks later. I cant 
reasonably hold Standard Life responsible for the time it took their previous SIPP provider to 
action the transfer request.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman