DRN-3148321
The complaint
Mr M complains about the transfer of his ISA holdings from Barclays Bank PLC (referred to
as Barclays or the transferor) to a third-party provider (referred to as the transferee).
Mr M says that due to the delays he was unable to sell his shares and buy new ones (as
planned) consequently hes suffered a financial loss.
What happened
In November 2021, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Barclays says, I think its more
likely (than not) the ISA transfer wouldve completed by 1 December 2020, if Barclays hadnt
missed the transferees response on 20 November 2020.
To put things right Barclays should compare the value of the ISA on 1 December 2020 with
the value Mr M received on 18 January 2021 and pay the difference, if there is a loss. I think
Barclays should also pay him £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
However, Im not persuaded Barclays is responsible for Mr M not being able to sell his Jet2 
shares and purchase new ones in Palantir at his preferred price. Despite his reservations
about selling his Jet2 shares Mr M wasnt prevented from doing so, and despite what he
says, theres no guarantee that he wouldve purchased Palantir shares.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by him, and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note that on 19 October 2020, Mr M notified Barclays of his intention to transfer his ISA
holdings to a third-party provider. Its around this time Mr M also instructed the transferee.
On 30 October 2020, Barclays received the instructions to transfer. I note a few days later,
on 3 November 2020, Barclays sent the valuation. Its from this point onwards Barclays and
the transferee appear to miss each others communications.
I note Barclays said that on 9 November 2020, it emailed the transferee chasing a response
to its valuation but received nothing. It subsequently sent chaser emails on 16 and 23
November 2020 but wasnt aware of any response.
However, I note  from recent evidence adduced through Mr M  that the transferee did
respond to Barclays on 20 November 2020 but received no acknowledgement or response
from it. The transferee subsequently sent at least five chaser emails, even threatening to
cancel the transfer request, but with still no response form Barclays.
Whilst its surprising that Barclays didnt pick-up a single email, I note Barclays now accepts
that the transferee did respond to its valuation email, and that it failed to acknowledge and
respond to it accordingly.
In a recent email to our service dated 2 July 2021, Barclays accepted that the transferee
responded to it on 20 November 2021 and Barclays is responsible for the delays in not
responding to that and the delayed transfer overall.
So, given that Barclays took five days to complete the transfer  from 13 January 2021 to 18
January 2021  on balance I think thats roughly how long it wouldve taken if it had
acknowledged the transferees response on 20 November 2021.
In the circumstances by way of redress I think Barclays should compare the value of the ISA
on 1 December 2020 with the value Mr M received on 18 January 2021 and pay the
difference, if there is a loss with 8% simple interest. I think Barclays should also pay Mr M
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Notwithstanding the delays, I dont think Barclays is responsible for any consequential
losses, because I dont think Mr M was prevented from trading.
Despite having decided to transfer his holdings away from Barclays, due to his reservations
about the Smart Investor platform, Im satisfied he still had the option to instruct Barclays to
sell his shares.
I note that on 9 November 2020 Mr M changed his mind again and contacted Barclays about
selling some of his shares, having unsuccessfully tried to do so online. But by then, his
holdings had been ring-fenced ready for transfer to a third-party provider, so the process
wasnt as simple. I note that he then changed his mind again because the process would
take roughly 72 hours to undo his initial instructions during which time the price of shares
might drop.
Whilst theres some disagreement about what Mr M could and couldnt do before he
instructed Barclays to transfer his shares, I note Barclays maintains that Mr M couldve sold
his shares, without any difficulty, right up until 30 October 2020, before the process started,
and the shares were ringfenced.
Mr M decided, of his own volition, not to sell the shares in November 2020, despite his
strategy to buy low and sell high. Notwithstanding his concerns about the three-day delay he
still couldve traded if he wanted to.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms strategy, I note that he still hasnt sold anyJet2 shares let alone try
and use the funds to buy new ones. Notwithstanding what he says about the planned
purchase of Palantir shares, I note he didnt sell any of his Jet2 shares in December 2020 
when he initially thought the transfer would be complete by and hed be able to execute his
plan  even though the share price was higher than they were in November 2020.I note that Mr M still hasnt sold any shares because he doesnt want to complicate matters
during this complaint. I agree with the investigator that its entirely a matter for him whether, 
or not, he sells the shares, and theres absolutely no requirement for him to wait until the
conclusion of this complaint.
Even if I was to decide that Mr M couldnt sell his shares because of Barclays failures, which
I dont, I still cant safely say that hes suffered a loss. Im mindful that the price of his Jet2
shares (at the time of the investigators view)  was higher than when he tried to sell them in
November 2020. Despite what Mr M says about the Palantir shares, on balance Im unable
to safely say that he wouldve purchased them come what may.
I agree with the investigator, I cant offer Mr M redress on the basis of what he mightve done
and the consequential losses that mightve occurred.
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants.
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im afraid Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him
what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further evidence they wished me to consider.
Barclays responded and accepted my provisional decision. It said:
The Ombudsman has asked us to consider the price difference between 1 December 2020 
and 18 January 2021. I have established the price using close of business value on each 
date, which calculates the price difference as £93.96.
If I calculate 8% on this from 20 December 2020 to 30 November 2021 (allowing time for 
acceptance), we are required to pay £7.12 Gross / deduction of 20% £1.42 and Net payment 
to customer of £5.70.
We havent paid out the £200 D&I and the offer of the teatime hamper remains also.
Mr M also responded and accepted my provisional decision. In short, he said that he is 
content to proceed as it would take far too long to get what he really lost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the new submissions, my decision to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I still think its more likely (than not) the ISA 
transfer wouldve completed by 1 December 2020, if Barclays hadnt missed the transferees 
response on 20 November 2020.To put things right, I still think Barclays should compare the value of the ISA on 1 December 
2020 with the value Mr M received on 18 January 2021 and pay the difference, if there is a 
loss, with 8% simple interest. I think Barclays should also pay him £200 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
However, Im not persuaded Barclays is responsible for Mr M not being able to sell his Jet2 
shares and purchase new ones in Palantir at his preferred price. Despite his reservations
about selling his Jet2 shares Mr M wasnt prevented from doing so, and despite what he
says, theres no guarantee that he wouldve purchased Palantir shares.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Barclays Bank UK PLC should compare the value of the ISA on 1 
December 2020 with the value Mr M received on 18 January 2021 and pay him the 
difference, if there is a loss, with 8% simple interest. 
I think Barclays should also pay Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should calculate and pay Mr M redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman