DRN-2405839
The complaint
Mr M complains that Phoenix Life Limited (trading at the time as Royal Life) gave him 
inappropriate advice with regards to the investment of his pension savings.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision relating to this complaint in November 2020. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think Mr M's complaint should be upheld. All parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but in that decision I said;
The advice that Mr M is complaining about was provided by Royal Life. That 
company is now part of Phoenix, and so Phoenix is responsible for dealing with 
Mr Ms complaint. Although Mr M had no direct contact with Phoenix at the time I will, 
for simplicity, generally refer to that business throughout this decision.
Mr M has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC). But, for ease, I will generally refer in this decision to all communication as 
having been with, and from, Mr M himself.
Mr M says that, in 1987, Phoenix advised him to begin contributing to a personal 
pension. He says that, following the advice provided by Phoenix, his pension 
contributions were invested into a single managed fund. He says he continued his 
pension contributions until 2008 when he transferred his pension savings to another 
provider.
Mr M complains that the recommended investments showed a lack of diversification. 
As a result he says his investments have performed poorly, and the amount he 
transferred to the new provider in 2008 was substantially less than it would have 
been if Phoenix had given him better advice.
In response Phoenix noted that Mr M had ceased his relationship with the firm 
around 11 years before. And as a result it said it no longer held any records of the 
advice it had given to him, or the investment of his pension savings. It asked Mr M to 
provide further information about his circumstances in 1987 so it could consider what 
he was saying about the suitability of the advice. Mr M declined to provide any further 
information and so Phoenix said it wasnt able to conclude it had done anything 
wrong.
Given the time that has elapsed since Mr M started contributing to his pension, and 
the significant amount of time since he ceased his relationship with Phoenix, it isnt 
surprising that Phoenix holds little documentation relating to the matters forming this 
complaint. Im also mindful that the event Mr M is complaining about happened over 
thirty years ago. Whilst Ive got no doubts that Mr M is providing his complete and 
honest recollections of what happened at the time, I need to be mindful that even the 
most careful of memories can and do fade over such a long period of time.
Mr M has declined to provide Phoenix with further information about his 
circumstances when the advice was given. Instead he relies on a generic statement 
that it was not good industry practice to recommend all of a client's contributions be 
invested in a single fund for a very long period of time. I dont agree with Mr M that 
this statement is all the information I need to decide whether the advice he was given 
by Phoenix was suitable.
There are many occasions where it is entirely appropriate for a consumers pension 
savings to be invested in a single fund. A number of funds are specifically 
constructed to provide the diversity that might be appropriate for consumers that 
share similar characteristics, such as the length of time to retirement, their appetite 
for risk, and the consequential level of return that they are seeking from their pension 
savings. So I disagree that I can decide whether an investment was suitable for Mr M 
without much more detailed knowledge of why that recommendation was made, and 
whether it took into account what Phoenix should reasonably have known about 
Mr Ms circumstances.
I am also mindful that Mr Ms pension plan was taken out before the introduction of 
the Financial Services Act. This means financial advice wasnt subject to the same 
rules as it is now. Instead firms giving advice had a legal obligation not to give 
misleading information about a policy. They were also required to carry out their 
duties with reasonable skill, care and diligence to ensure any recommendations 
made were appropriate for the needs and circumstances of their clients. And so 
I would need to consider Mr Ms complaint against those standards.
Since it is now so long since Mr M ended his relationship with Phoenix, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect it to hold documentation about its recommendation in 1987. To 
some degree it therefore falls on Mr M to provide the evidence that might show the 
recommendation Phoenix gave him was unsuitable. I would need to understand what 
the recommendation was, how Phoenix presented it to him, and why his 
circumstances at the time had not been reasonably accounted for in the 
recommendation that was given. 
I need to decide complaints by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. That means that I would need to look 
at specific information relating to both the advice that was given, and its suitability for 
Mr Ms circumstances at the time. Based on what I have seen to date I havent seen 
anything that would lead me to reasonably conclude that any advice Phoenix gave to 
Mr M wasnt appropriate for his circumstances at the time. So without further specific 
information evidencing both the advice, and Mr Ms circumstances I dont intend to 
uphold the complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. Phoenix told us that 
it had no additional comments to make. Mr Ms representative told us that he didnt accept 
what I had said and provided some further comments. Although I am only summarising here 
what Mr Ms representative has said, I have considered the entire response carefully before 
writing this decision.
It says that Mr M was invested in a single managed fund for the whole of the 20 years his 
pension savings were with Phoenix. It says that being invested in a single fund exposed 
Mr M to unnecessary risks that resulted in him receiving very poor investment returns 
compared with a simple Equities and Bonds mixed portfolio.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following a further review of the evidence I have, and the additional comments made by 
Mr Ms CMC, I am not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. But I would 
like to comment further on some of the points Mr Ms CMC has raised.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Phoenix provided Mr M with any ongoing advice or 
management of his pension savings. So I dont think the length of time that Mr Ms savings 
remained invested in a single fund has much relevance to this complaint. His complaint 
relates to the initial advice he was given. Ive not seen anything that suggests that initial 
advice was such that Mr M was restricted, or discouraged, from changing his investment 
approach over the time he held his savings with Phoenix.
As I explained in my provisional decision there are many occasions where it is appropriate 
that a single fund is used for pension savings. Mr Ms CMC has declined to provide us with 
any information about the advice Mr M was given or even his circumstances at the time. My 
provisional decision clearly set out that unless I was given that information I would be unable 
to uphold the complaint. But despite those warnings the CMC has continued to make generic 
arguments that provide no detail of Mr Ms individual situation.
In summary I havent seen anything that would lead me to reasonably conclude that any 
advice Phoenix gave to Mr M wasnt appropriate for his circumstances at the time. So I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman