DRN-2897073
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) didnt process a chargeback or 
uphold a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) when he 
complained to them about a faulty product hed bought.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
What this means here is that Capital One can in some circumstances ask for a transaction to 
be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Mr P 
paid.
But the chargeback process doesnt give consumers legal rights and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response to the request the 
bank submits. 
There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. 
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, its not for Capital One  or me  to decide whether Mr P 
should be allowed to get his money back for the goods. Capital Ones role is to raise the 
chargeback if the rules allow it.
Here, Mastercard are the scheme providers and their rules didnt allow Capital One to raise 
a chargeback because they prohibit claims when goods are purchased face to face. So, I 
dont think Capital Ones actions were unreasonable.
Section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that the claim must be for at least £100 and as the goods 
Mr P purchased were less than that I cant say Capital One were unreasonable not to 
support a section 75 claim.
Overall, I dont think theres evidence Capital One have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman