DRN-1653217
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) dealt 
with a claim under his car insurance policy. He wants AA to reimburse him for a recovery 
charge he paid his preferred garage when they collected his car after an incident.
What happened
Mr Vs car was damaged following an incident with an unidentified third party vehicle on a 
Saturday night in December 2019. He reported the incident to his insurer, AA. Mr V said he 
wanted to use his preferred garage for repairs, rather than an approved repairer. On the 
Sunday evening Mr V said he went to his car to recover some items and discovered his car 
wouldnt lock. So he asked the preferred garage to recover his car. 
The following day AA wrote to Mr V to set out the claims process on the basis he intended to 
use a non-approved repairer. In line with AAs policy, this meant that AA wouldnt cover any 
recovery or storage charges incurred from Mr Vs preferred garage. 
In December 2019 Mr V complained. He was unhappy that AA intended to record the claim 
as a fault claim. Mr V wanted AA to reimburse him for the recovery costs he paid.
AA said if Mr V had used one of its approved repairers, it would have arranged for his 
insecure car to be moved to storage for free. AA said that because there arent any details of 
the third party who caused the damage to Mr Vs car, it had correctly recorded the claim as a 
fault claim. It had attempted to contact a local business for CCTV footage but without 
success. So AA didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V asked us to look at his complaint about AAs decision not to reimburse him for the 
recovery costs. He said he called the preferred garage to arrange recovery of his car to 
mitigate further loss. So he feels he took reasonable steps to safeguard his car and AA 
should reimburse him. 
Our investigator didnt feel Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. She said AA could have 
arranged free recovery on behalf of Mr V under the policy, had he chosen an approved 
repairer. And as AA didnt know Mr V required recovery when he first reported the claim, it 
had acted reasonably. 
Mr V didnt agree. He believes AA should have explained all of the implications of using a 
non- approved repairer in the initial call. He says AA failed to ask about the full extent of the 
damage and the details are hidden in the policy wording. 
So Mr V wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA has provided a copy of the policy booklet which explains the cover Mr V had with it. It 
sets out what AA will cover in the event of a claim. Under the Section Loss or Damage it 
says;
The Insurer will also pay the cost of protection and taking the Insured Car to the 
nearest suitable Insurer approved repairer or place of storage after such damage and 
where appropriate returning it after repair to Your address as shown in the Statement 
of Insurance. 
AA wrote to Mr V on the Monday to set out the claims process. In its letter it acknowledged 
that Mr V wanted to use a non-approved repairer. It set out what this would mean for Mr V 
and this included:
We will not cover any storage and/or recovery fees incurred by the repairer. If the 
repairer charge for the collection of your vehicle and to store the vehicle, you will be 
liable for any of these charges.
I appreciate that Mr V received this letter after recovery was arranged. And I understand why 
Mr V wanted to safeguard his car when he realised it wouldnt lock on the Sunday evening. 
So our investigator asked Mr V what he would have done differently if AA had made it clear 
when he reported the incident that recovery costs wouldnt be covered if he didnt use an 
approved repairer. Mr V said he may still have used his chosen preferred garage as he 
wanted them to carry out the repairs. 
So I think overall AA dealt with Mr Vs claim reasonably and in line with the policy. I think it 
promptly and clearly explained the level of cover Mr V had and the differences if he chose a 
non-approved repairer. If no recovery was required when Mr V reported the incident, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AA not to have covered this in the initial call. AA operates an 
out of hours service for claims reporting. So I think Mr V could have checked with AA before 
he arranged recovery. But from what Mr V told us, I dont think he would have made a 
different decision  even if he was made aware that the recovery charge by his preferred 
garage wasnt covered.
I understand Mr V will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into account, I 
dont think AA is responsible for reimbursing Mr V for the recovery costs he paid to his 
preferred garage. So Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman