DRN-3703756
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) havent paid her £200 she is 
due under a refer a friend scheme.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mrs T holds an account with II who were promoting a scheme where existing account 
holders would receive £200 if they referred a friend to open an account - subject to 
certain conditions being met.
Mrs T referred her husband to open an account with II, but she didnt receive the 
£200 payment. She complained to II, but they didnt uphold her complaint as they 
thought Mr T had incorrectly filled out the promotion form. Mrs T didnt agree with 
their findings and asked us to look into the matter.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who after initially 
upholding the complaint, decided it shouldnt be upheld after II provided further 
comments. She thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld as Mr T didnt leave his 
funds in the account for the 12 month minimum period specified under the promotion. 
She noted that he closed the account because he wanted a managed account not a 
self-managed account. Because of this, she thought that even if II had paid Mrs T the 
£200, they would have reclaimed it under the terms of the promotion. 
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators findings and said Mr T only closed the 
account when it became clear that II were refusing to honour the offer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion and as theres been no agreement 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while Im aware this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
From what Ive seen, there was an error when the form to claim the £200 was completed. 
Mr T didnt use the email address he used to open the account. Instead, he used the email 
address registered to Mrs Ts account. The terms of the promotion said that the person 
opening the new account must not be an existing II customer. As the email address was 
registered to an existing account, the £200 wasnt paid to Mrs T. 
Mrs T raised the issue with II and they advised her to fill in the form again using the correct 
details. However, there was another issue caused by Mr T not keeping the account for 12 
months after it was open. Ive considered what Mrs T has said - that the account was closed 
primarily because he was being charged a £10 monthly fee when it should have been free 
for the first 12 months under the terms of the promotion. 
But I must balance this with what Mr and Mrs T said during a call they had with II. They said 
that Mr T wanted a managed account similar to what Mrs T had. II explained that Mrs Ts 
account had been migrated to them as a managed account, but they no longer offered 
managed accounts, only self-managed accounts. Mr T said he had no interest in trading 
himself and wanted an account where it was managed.
I think this is fairly conclusive, the product that was being offered wasnt what Mr T wanted 
so I think its more likely than not that he would have closed it within 12 months of opening. 
This meant that II would have had the right to reclaim the £200 if it had been paid, so I dont 
think theyve treated Mrs T unfairly by not paying her the £200. I appreciate there were 
issues initially due to the email address that was used when Mr Ts account was opened but 
I think II explained what the issue was and how it could be rectified. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think I can fairly say II need to compensate Mrs T.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman