DRN-3152875
The complaint and what happened
Ms D complains that UK Credit Limited, trading as UK Credit, allowed her to be a guarantor 
on a friends loan irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She 
would like to be removed from the credit agreement and have no further liability for the loan.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from October 2021, 
which form part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the 
reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because 
I thought the checks that UK Credit carried out went far enough and didnt 
suggest that Ms D was unable to act as a guarantor on this loan.
I asked both Ms D and UK Credit to let me have any more information they wanted me to 
consider. Neither party has responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included here 
the relevant sections of my provisional decision:
What happened
In December 2019 UK Credit approved Ms D as a guarantor for loan of £5,400 for a 
friend of hers, which was scheduled to be repaid at approximately £223 per month over 
a term of 60 months. When assessing the application, UK Credit asked Ms D about her 
financial circumstances; verified her income; saw some bank statements; and carried 
out a credit check before approving her as a guarantor. So far, the borrower has 
maintained the repayments and Ms D has not been called on to make any.
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought that UK Credit should have 
carried out more in-depth checks when assessing whether this loan was affordable 
for Ms D as guarantor. He thought more information would have identified that the 
lending wasnt affordable or sustainable. UK Credit disagreed, and asked an 
ombudsman to look at the case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently not planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
I need to first look at what information UK Credit had when considering Ms Ds 
application to be a guarantor for this loan, and then what information it should have 
gathered, given what it knew about Ms D and her circumstances. I also need to 
consider whether there is any evidence that the borrowing was unsustainable for the 
borrower, and whether UK Credit gave Ms D a clear explanation of her responsibilities 
as a guarantor.
Did UK Credits checks on Ms D go far enough?
The regulations require potential lenders to carry out sufficient checks, proportionate to 
customer circumstances, to make sure that repayments can be made without undue 
difficulties and the lending therefore fairly judged as affordable. Neither the extent, nor the 
exact content, of checks is prescribed.
Bearing everything in mind, I consider that UK Credits checks were sufficient. I have 
listened to the phone call in which it carried out a fairly detailed income and expenditure 
analysis (I&E); it verified her income; saw some bank statements; and carried out a credit 
check. I acknowledge the amount and term of the loan, neither of which was insubstantial, 
but based on what it found out about Ms D, I dont think anything more in-depth was 
required. I say that because:
UK Credit saw on the credit check, and confirmed with Ms D, that she had one 
outstanding loan at the time of the application with a monthly repayment of £196. No 
other debt was revealed, and Ms D confirmed in the I&E call that she had none.
Ms D confirmed in detail what her monthly outgoings were, both essential and 
discretionary, and that she paid only a nominal amount to her parents towards the 
household expenses. Her disposable income was identified as being around £450 per 
month.
UK Credit verified Ms Ds income, and the monthly repayment of the loan represented 
16% of that income. Not a significant amount.
UK Credit discussed a recent use of a credit facility with Ms D, which she explained in 
some detail and confirmed was no longer needed.
Although the bank statements it saw showed some use of an unauthorised overdraft, 
and two returned direct debits, this was for a small amount and appeared temporary, 
so in itself I dont think it was enough to raise any particular concerns.
I can see that Ms Ds circumstances appeared to deteriorate somewhat straight after the 
loan was approved  for example, she began to use the revolving credit facility again and 
fairly frequently. But that was not evident at the time that the loan was being assessed.
Ms D also mentions that she was experiencing some stresses and mental health 
difficulties at the time. Im sorry to hear that. However, she did not mention these to UK 
Credit at any point, including during the lengthy I&E call, nor did she exhibit any 
behaviours in that conversation that ought to have suggested to the representative that 
she was suffering in that way. So it simply wasnt in a position to know that, or consider 
whether it was relevant to the lending decision.
So, on balance I conclude that UK Credits checks were sufficient and didnt suggest that 
this loan would be unsustainable for Ms D were she called upon to make repayments.
Did UK Credit do enough to check that the lending was sustainable and affordable for the 
borrower?
If I were to find that UK Credit should not have granted the loan to the borrower in this 
case, then that would mean that it, of course, should not have accepted Ms D as a 
guarantor.
However, the borrower has not raised a complaint and I have no information about her 
circumstances. The only thing I know is that Ms D has not been asked to make any 
repayments as the guarantor.
Therefore I can make no findings about whether the lending was sustainable for the borrower.
Did UK Credit give Ms D clear information about her role and responsibilities as guarantor?
Ive listened to the information that UK Credit gave Ms D over the phone about what being 
a guarantor means. It was both detailed and clear, and Ms D confirmed to the 
representative that she understood her role and was happy to act as guarantor. I have 
found no cause for concern here.
It therefore follows that I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
As neither party has responded to the findings contained in my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from them. It therefore follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I do not 
uphold this complaint and UK Credit Limited does not need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman