DRN-2568205
The complaint
Mr A and Ms A complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr A and Ms A bought the PPI policy when they took out a further advance on their 
mortgage in 2005. The original mortgage was taken out in 2001, but I have no evidence to 
say that PPI was taken out at that time, so this decision only relates to the sale in 2005. 
Santander said that the PPI sale took place in a meeting and that it advised Mr A and Ms A 
to take out the policy. Mr A and Ms A said they were told they had to take the PPI to get the 
further advance.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr A and Ms A at a 
monthly cost of £5.95. The monthly benefit was £100, split equally between Mr A and Ms A. 
If they had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim. Santander told us the policy was cancelled in May 2006.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld, because she thought Mr A and Ms 
A had not been given a clear choice about taking out the PPI. Santander disagreed, and 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr A and Ms As case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr A and Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander sent in copies of Mr A and Ms As original mortgage application form, and their 
further advance application form, along with copies of the PPI policy summary and full terms 
and conditions. It also sent in a computer record of the PPI details. It could not provide a 
copy of the PPI application form that it said Mr A and Ms A would have had to complete. 
I can see that in 2001, Mr A and Ms A ticked a box on the original mortgage application form 
to say that they wanted more information about PPI cover, along with a quotation. But I have 
no evidence of PPI having been taken out at that time. 
Mr A and Ms A then took out a further advance in September 2005. Looking at the 
application form, there were yes and no options alongside the statement I require 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. There is a clear tick in the no box, indicating 
that Mr A and Ms A did not require PPI. However, in a section of the form that was 
completed by the adviser, there is a tick in a box marked mortgage payment cover sale.
We asked Santander for an explanation of this discrepancy, but none was offered. 
Santander said that Mr A and Ms A would have had to complete a separate application form 
and direct debit mandate for the PPI, so would have known it was separate to the borrowing. 
It also said that it had no evidence to suggest that Mr A and Ms A werent provided with 
sufficient information to enable them to make an informed decision when choosing whether 
or not to apply for the PPI, or that it was not made clear to Mr A and Ms A that the PPI was 
optional. 
As Ive said, it seems that the PPI sale took place in a meeting, so I cant know what was 
discussed. But Mr A and Ms A were clear in their recollection that they were told they had to 
have the PPI. Santander has not explained why the PPI was sold after the application form 
was clearly ticked to say they didnt want it - there is no information about why Mr A and Ms 
A might have changed their minds, or indeed why they might have been advised to cover 
only the relatively small amount of the further advance. 
Overall, from the evidence I have, I am not satisfied that Mr A and Ms A were given a clear 
choice about the PPI or that they properly consented to it. 
As a result I have concluded that their complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr A and Ms A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
the PPI. The policy has been cancelled, so Santander should:
Pay Mr A and Ms A the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr A and Ms A made a successful claim under the PPI policy (although I have no evidence 
they did), Santander can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr A and Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr A and Ms As complaint. Santander 
UK Plc should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman