DRN-3984193
The complaint
Mr L complains that Best Protect Online Limited (BPOL) has treated him unfairly in relation 
to communications before and after the sale of an insurance policy.
Any reference to BPOL includes its respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
Mr L took out a Company A insurance policy, that was sold through a sub-broker 
(BPOL). Mr L has had a separate complaint Company B (broker) that I wont 
comment on here. He complained to BPOL about several matters, saying:
oIts communication was aggressive and disrespectful. It ignored his 
correspondence. And it had given incorrect information to him.
oIt gave him an incorrect address for an insurance broker.
oIts agent directed Mr L to use a potentially dangerous stove that may be a 
threat to his life and his property.
BPOL looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Within its final response 
letter of July 2022, it said:
oThe email evidence did not support the accusations Mr L had made  it 
thought the tone of emails may have been misconstrued. 
oMr L had unreasonable expectations of BPOLs timeframes to reply to emails. 
BPOL agreed it had given inaccurate information in relation to a chimney 
which it had quickly corrected within three hours and apologised for.
oAn address for a broker it provided to Mr L was valid, but it was a former 
address. It said there was a Royal Mail redirection service in place to account 
for this. So, any issues with post would need to be taken up with Royal Mail.
oIt disagreed it had advised Mr L to use a potentially dangerous stove  and 
said Mr Ls paraphrasing was misleading as to what was said. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
considered the communications between parties and agreed BPOL hadnt responded 
to all of Mr Ls emails, and in places it had given him incorrect information. But BPOL 
had accepted and apologised for mistakes, and its tone had been reasonable. And 
he wasnt persuaded it advised Mr L to use a potentially dangerous stove. So, he 
didnt direct it to do anything further.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans final decision. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint should 
be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made by the parties, thats 
not to say I havent seen or considered it, its just I dont consider it necessary to specifically 
reference it in reaching my decision.
Ive carefully read the email correspondence that Mr L has described as aggressive, 
disrespectful, and flippant amongst other things.
In my view, BPOLs responses are factual and to the point. I acknowledge Mr L may 
be offended by the correspondence, but I dont think this was BPOLs intention or a 
reasonable interpretation of its communications.
I would also note that BPOLs agent followed up with Mr L to say they were sorry to 
hear of Mr Ls concerns and their intention had not been to come across as 
aggressive. I thought this showed BPOL had reasonably tried to resolve matters and 
give reassurance to Mr L. As a result, this isnt something I will look to compensate 
Mr L for or make any further direction on.
BPOL has agreed it did not respond to several of Mr Ls emails. It said this was 
intentional as Mr L had made accusations about a particular agent and one of its 
managers instructed him not to communicate further. I think this was reasonable in 
the circumstances and Ive seen nothing to suggest there has been any detriment to 
Mr Ls position as a result. 
BPOL has explained the address it gave Mr L was an older address that had been 
included in a previous policy book. And it has explained there is a redirection service 
set up to ensure post reaches the intended recipient. 
Mr L has suggested BPOLs agent couldve typed the address in question to avoid 
any issues. In hindsight, it seems this may have resolved matters but this doesnt 
persuade me BPOLs actions were unreasonable or that it should be responsible for 
subsequent issues Mr L may have experienced with Royal Mail as a result.
Mr L says BPOL should be responsible for advice given to him to use his potentially 
dangerous stove. BPOL arent responsible for the advice of the person in question. 
And having looked at all the evidence provided, Im not satisfied such advice had 
ever been given by BPOL. And in any case, Im pleased to see there was no physical 
impact of any such advice. So even if I did hold BPOL responsible for such advice 
being given, which I dont, it wouldnt have changed my decision in this case. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman