DRN-3883893
The complaint
Mr H has complained about American International Group UK Limited (AIG). He would like 
it to settle his mobile phone insurance claim differently.
Reference to AIG includes things said and done by its agents and representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr H got in touch with AIG after he discovered his phone was damaged. AIG 
accepted the claim and offered to carry out a repair.
The phone was made by brand A, but AIG said it would be using unbranded parts 
during the repair. Mr H said this would void his warranty with A. AIG offered to 
replace the phone. But because the replacement would also be unbranded, Mr H 
decided not to go ahead with AIG and had the repair carried out by A instead.
Mr H complained. He asked AIG to reimburse him the cost of the repair with A and to 
pay compensation. AIG said it had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Our investigator thought AIG had treated Mr H fairly. She said AIG had been clear in 
its policy that it wouldnt use branded parts when repairing phones  and this was 
common amongst mobile phone insurers. So AIGs offer to repair with unbranded 
parts had been a reasonable way to settle Mr Hs claim. She also noted the policy 
contained a term which said that if a repair invalidated the warranty with the phone 
maker, AIG would fulfil the remainder of that warranty as necessary.
Mr H didnt think this was a fair outcome. He said the repair may not only void the 
warranty with A, but also impair the functionality of the phone  including the image 
and colour quality of the screen, phone responsiveness, battery life and security.
The policy says it will offer to repair or replace a phone. Repairs will be made with 
refurbished products which may contain parts which are of similar or equivalent 
specification, and which may include non-original, third party, or unbranded parts. It 
goes on to say that a replacement wont be brand new and may contain non-original, 
third party, or unbranded parts. Im satisfied the policy clearly sets out that a 
policyholder shouldnt expect a repair or replacement to be made with branded parts.
As Mr H has pointed out, that could lead to unfairness if, for example, an unbranded 
repair were to invalidate the phone makers warranty. However, AIGs policy says it 
will fulfil the terms of the warranty in these circumstances. I think thats a reasonable 
way to ensure its customers dont lose out on the benefits of a warranty.
AIG offered a repair or a replacement, both with unbranded parts. This offer was in 
line with the policy terms.
I understand Mr Hs main point is that he would like a repair or replacement to use 
branded parts. Whilst I recognise the appeal of that kind of cover, its not something 
AIG is obliged to offer. Each insurer is entitled to decide for itself what cover to offer, 
and at what price, and that includes deciding what types of parts to use when 
repairing or replacing phones. As our investigator explained, the cover AIG provides 
is consistent with many mobile phone insurers, so I dont think its policy is unusual.
Mr H has also questioned whether the repair or replacement would provide the same 
functionality as his phone had prior to the damage. If AIG had settled the claim in 
either way, I would have expected it to ensure Mr H was treated fairly by having 
similar or better functionality than prior to the damage. But AIG wasnt given the 
opportunity to carry out either option. And I havent seen anything from Mr H to show 
why AIG would likely have been unable to match the functionality. So Im not 
persuaded AIGs offer to repair or replace would have treated Mr H unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied AIG has set out the terms of the policy clearly  and has 
followed them in this claim. I havent seen anything to suggest that doing so has 
treated Mr H unfairly. AIGs offer to settle the claim was fair. So I dont think it needs 
to pay the cost of the repair A carried out or compensate Mr H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman