DRN-3073189
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mr G and is about how Nationwide Building 
Society dealt with a request for the date of death figures for Mr Gs account.  
The estate is represented here by the executors, Mr and Mrs G, who were the late relatives 
of Mr G. For ease of reading I will refer to Mrs G as being the complainant here.
What happened
Mr G held a number of accounts with Nationwide at the date of his death in April 2020. 
Probate was granted in June 2020 with Mr and Mrs G appointed as the executors of Mr Gs 
estate. 
After Mr Gs death, Mrs G informed Nationwide that Mr G had passed away and she asked it 
to provide date of death figures for his accounts. Nationwide provided the date of death 
figures to Mrs G in May 2020, which she provided to HMRC for inheritance tax purposes. 
However, this figure was higher than the cheque in settlement that was sent by Nationwide 
in July 2020 following the grant of probate. So, Mrs G contacted Nationwide to query why the 
date of death figures hadnt matched the value of the cheque.
Nationwide informed Mrs G that the date of death figures it had provided in May 2020 hadnt 
been correct. Mrs G said no explanation was offered as to the reason for the discrepancy. 
She therefore requested details of how the date of death figures had been calculated. 
On 8 August 2020, Nationwide sent account closure statements for Mr Gs accounts. It also 
wrote to Mrs G to reiterate that the original date of death figures it had provided had been 
incorrect and it enclosed the correct figures with its correspondence. But it didnt explain how 
it had come to offer incorrect figures previously. 
On 14 October 2020, Mrs G wrote to Nationwide informing it that she wanted it to provide full 
information about how the original date of death figures had been calculated so she could 
understand how this discrepancy had arisen.
By the end of October 2020, Mrs G said she hadnt received a response to her clarification 
request. So, she chased Nationwide for the requested information but received no reply. And 
on 7 December 2020, Mrs G complained to Nationwide about its lack of response to her 
clarification request.
In January 2021, Nationwide issued its final response to Mrs Gs complaint. It explained that 
the value of the cheque had been correctly calculated and provided a full breakdown of the 
correct date of death figures. However, it stated it couldnt provide a breakdown for the 
incorrect date of death figures it had initially provided or confirm why the figures had been 
incorrect. It apologised for the discrepancy between the initial and revised date of death 
figures and acknowledged the errors it had made. And it offered to compensate Mrs G in the 
overall sum of £250 to recognise the time it had taken for the correct information to be 
provided and the inconvenience this had caused due to the complaint involving a 
bereavement.   
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response to her complaint Mrs G referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into this and empathised with Mrs G. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They didnt think Nationwide had made an error in the 
amount it had paid the estate of Mr G. And our investigator explained to Mrs G that, because 
our service cant award compensation to third parties, they couldnt ask Nationwide to 
increase its compensation offer. But Mrs G rejected our investigators view of her complaint 
and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn of the bereavement Mrs G has suffered. I appreciate that the time 
since Mr Gs passing will have been difficult for Mrs G. And I can see the strength of feeling 
she has about this complaint. 
Mrs G has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of her complaint. I want to 
assure her Ive read and considered everything that both she and Nationwide have sent 
when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mrs Gs raised as Ive focused 
on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mrs G wont take that as a discourtesy, 
my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having 
done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those 
reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G 
but Im not going to be able to help her as shed like. Ill explain why.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr G was the consumer 
originally but when he died the right to complain passed to his estate. Although Mrs G is 
representing the estate, shes not Nationwides customer here. Her role is to bring the 
complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a person might instruct a solicitor or 
other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mrs G in her personal capacity or look at 
how this matter has affected her personally. In saying this I understand the points Mrs G has 
made. And its clear that this matter has been difficult and frustrating for her to deal with, but 
thats just not something Ive got the power to consider. 
Im sure Mrs G has suffered some upset and inconvenience in dealing with Nationwide and 
for that Im sorry. But any award of compensation I make can only take into account the 
losses, distress and/or inconvenience suffered by the actual consumer. In this case thats 
the late Mr G not his representatives. 
Nationwide has accepted it made an error when it provided the initial date of death figures to 
Mrs G. Its told our service that this was due to the figure being calculated manually. I can 
appreciate why Mrs G asked Nationwide to provide information showing exactly how the 
initial figure came to be incorrectly calculated. But Nationwide has said it cant do this. 
I can see that Nationwide has expanded on the information it gave Mrs G about why the 
incorrect calculation was obtained since she referred her complaint to our service. Its told us 
that when a personal representative of a deceased account holder requests a date of death figures breakdown a manual calculation is provided by its savings resolution team as this 
cannot be undertaken by the bereavement services team.
Nationwide has further stated that it uses a system tool during bereavement registration to 
create the date of death figures. This tool doesnt always use the correct figures or properly 
take into account a change of interest rate. And Nationwide said the individual inputting the 
figures hadnt checked them against the account correctly.
While Mrs G appears to want more detail about how the error occurred, I think Nationwide 
has offered a fair explanation of what happened in as much detail as it can. And, impartially, 
I dont think itd be fair for me to ask it to provide any further information here. 
I can see that Nationwide provided documentation to Mrs G that she can use to update 
HMRCs calculations relating to any inheritance tax paid. I think this is a reasonable step for 
it to take, which shows it was trying to assist Mrs G in recovering any excess tax paid if this 
had happened. Mrs G has confirmed that there has been no overpayment of inheritance tax. 
So, the error hasnt resulted in a financial loss here.
I can understand why the error may have undermined Mrs Gs confidence in Nationwide. 
However, its shown our service documentation that disclose the balances of the accounts 
that Mr G held with it. Having seen this evidence, Im persuaded that the value of the cheque 
matches the correct date of death figures. It follows that Im satisfied the error Nationwide 
initially made with the date of death figures has been remedied. I therefore cant fairly uphold 
a complaint that the estate of Mr G was underpaid.
In recognition of the delay in providing correct date of death figures to Mrs G and the 
inconvenience this error caused Nationwide offered to compensate her an overall sum of 
£250. I understand that this figure was increased from the initial amount Nationwide had 
offered, namely £150. Nationwide has told our service that this increase took into account 
that this complaint was a bereavement case. In doing so, Im satisfied that recognition was 
given to the additional upset that would have been caused here.
While its clear that Mrs G isnt happy with the compensation Nationwide has offered her, our 
service takes the view that an estate isnt able to experience the trouble and upset an 
individual can. So, I wouldnt ordinarily award compensation for Nationwides error. 
I cant ask Nationwide to increase its award for the reasons outlined. But, impartially, I think 
what its offered to pay Mrs G here is fair and reasonable. It takes into account the multiple 
requests she made for clarification of the date of death figures, the time she spent dealing 
with Nationwide and the fact that a family member had recently passed away. If it hasnt 
already paid the compensation it offered Mrs G, Nationwide should pay that sum to resolve 
this complaint.  
I realise Mrs G will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs G any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman