DRN-2884454
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to decline her claim.  
What happened
Miss A was due to go on holiday on 26 March 2020 when, because of the COVID-19 
pandemic, she was unable to travel owing to a directive from the Foreign Commonwealth 
Office which advised against all but essential travel. Miss A cancelled her trip on 18 March. 
She was able to recover the cost of her scheduled flight from the operator, but she was 
unable to recover her accommodation costs. And so, she claimed on her travel insurance 
policy with Great Lakes. Her claim was declined because the insurer said there was no 
cover available in the circumstances. Miss A would like Great Lakes to pay her claim. 
Our investigator said that Great Lakes should treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation section of the policy. He acknowledged the exclusions within the policy, namely 
that it didnt list a pandemic as an insurable risk, however, he also acknowledged that had 
Miss A gone ahead and travelled against the Foreign Commonwealth Office advice, then the 
insurer wouldnt have offered her cover in those circumstances either. He said, in summary, 
that Great Lakes position left Miss A caught between the policy exclusions as shed have no 
cover either way. He didnt think that fair or reasonable and so recommended that Great 
Lakes reconsider her claim in line with the remaining terms. 
Great Lakes didnt agree. In summary, it said that cancellation cover is based on specified 
perils, meaning that because a pandemic isnt specifically listed, its not covered. Great 
Lakes highlighted that this is standard industry practice and listed other insurers that have 
allegedly taken a similar position. Great Lakes said that by the ombudsman taking this 
position, it would suggest that other exceptions would be covered. In essence, its anxious 
our position could set a precedent. And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are the same 
as those already explained by our investigator. Great Lakes should also be reassured that 
my position on this case wont set a precedence for other exclusions to be covered 
automatically. The ombudsman considers complaints on an individual basis and each 
complaint hinges on its own individual circumstances. However, on this occasion, I believe 
Great Lakes has acted unfairly by declining Miss As claim, despite its policy terms having 
specified perils. Ill explain why.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. One page 1 of the 
terms and conditions, under the heading Important Information it says:
It is important that you read this document carefully This document details what is
and what is not covered along with any terms, conditions and exclusions of cover,
and that this meets your requirements
The Cancellation section of the policy terms on page 15 sets out whats covered:
What is covered:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the
table of benefits per insured person for your
non-refundable deposits and amounts you have
paid (or you are contracted to pay), for your
travel and accommodation (including pre-paid
excursions up to £250), which you do not use
because of the following:
e) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
issue a directive advising against all, or all
but essential travel to your trip destination
because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or
hurricane
Pages 38 and 39 of the policy include the general exclusions which apply to the policy. It
says:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
23. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar
governing body have advised against all, or all but essential travel
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion
The IPID
At the top of the document the IPID says:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a summary
of the main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your specific
individual needs in any way. Complete pre-contractual information on the product is
provided in your policy documentation
Under the heading What is insured? the IPID says, 
Cancellation  up to £7, 500.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered, page 2 of the IPID says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign andCommonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Ive highlighted the above terms as theyre relevant to the outcome of my final decision. Miss 
A would not have been covered by the policy had she chose to go on holiday because the 
advice from the FCO at that time was all but essential travel and the policy says theres no 
cover in those circumstances. The policy also says that theres no cover available for 
cancelling her trip because its not listed within the insured perils. I dont think this is fair 
because Miss A would not have been covered either way. I also think this wasnt made clear 
enough or given due prominence within the policy literature. I think this is a significant 
limitation and should have been easily accessible within the policy terms. Its because of this 
that I find Miss A has been treated unfairly. 
Ive considered Great Lakes arguments that the policy only covers specific insured events
and what its said about wider industry practice. However, I dont think the exclusion from 
cover of cancellation claims arising from the FCO advising against travel was clearly sign-
posted to Miss A, and I dont think the implications of this were made clear to her. I think this 
has left Miss A in an unfair position and Ill explain why.
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is
prominent in the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential
travel arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID.
The FCO exclusion in Miss As policy doesnt specifically state that no cover is provided for
cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date the policy
was purchased and the policyholders date of departure
.
The terms and conditions of Miss As policy includes a table of benefits which sets out that
there is cover for cancellation and cutting short a trip. The limit of cover is £7, 500. As Ive
outlined above similar information is contained within the IPID. Both documents also refer
the consumer to their policy documentation for the full terms and conditions of the contract.
This means that a consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to
work out whether they could claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO
guidance after theyd bought their policy.
When a consumer reaches page 15 of the policy document, which sets out the cover
available if they are unable to go on their trip, claims arising from a change in FCO advice
arent listed as a specific exclusion. Instead, claims for this reason are something that arent
listed as included. So a consumer would also need to cross refer this information with the
IPID and page 39 of the policy to understand that they werent covered for cancellation due
to a change in FCO advice.
I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is transparent enough. The
section on the policy setting out what will be covered if the consumer is unable to travel, on
page 15, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the same place. So, I
dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they would have no cover whatsoever
under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased
their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily
understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and
the FCO exclusion under the other sections of the policy are presented separately means
their combined effect isnt clear.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between
Miss A and Great Lakes. Miss A was left without any cover at all when the FCO advice
changed, and this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in GreatLakes favour.
I think that the terms and conditions didnt properly take Miss As interests into
account, and Im not persuaded Miss A would have freely agreed to a policy that left her
without any cover in these circumstances if shed realised that was how the policy would
operate.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and Great Lakes isnt acting in the best interests of its customer when
presenting the information in this way.
Great Lakes needed to put things right by paying Miss As claim under the cancellation 
section of her cover, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
Im directing Great Lakes Insurance SE to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy. Great Lakes Insurance SE must now therefore assess the claim under 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman