DRN-3541326
The complaint
Mr P complained that a repair to his washing machine took too long under his home care 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) and he was unhappy with the level 
of customer service provided.
What happened
When Mr Ps washing machine broke down he made a claim on his policy for it to be 
repaired. Mr P raised the claim on the 5 October 2021. Mr P said he was unhappy with the 
service he received as he said it had been difficult arranging appointments due to availability 
of British Gas engineers. Mr P also complained that British Gas had failed to attend several 
appointments that had been arranged.
Mr Ps washing machine was fixed by British Gas on 10 November 2021. Mr P said the 
delay caused an inconvenience for his family as they had to visit a launderette to get their 
clothes washed  which cost them money in bus fares and launderette washes. Mr P said a 
member of his family had taken time off work when the missed appointments occurred.
British Gas accepted its service wasnt good enough during the claim and paid three 
separate payments of compensation which totalled £250. Mr P didnt think this amount fairly 
compensated him for what had gone wrong.
Our investigator decided to not uphold the complaint. He thought British Gas had recognised 
where it had gone wrong and had compensated Mr P fairly for the inconvenience caused. Mr 
P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said it took British Gas too long to fix his washing machine and it shouldve offered him 
the opportunity to get the repairs done by his own contractor and refunded the costs. So, Ive 
considered this.
A British Gas engineer first inspected the washing machine on 12 October 2021 and 
arranged for a part to be ordered for the washing machine to be fixed. Mr P said he received 
a text from British Gas indicating the parts were received on 15 October 2021. I think British 
Gas attended in a reasonable timeframe and managed to arrange the necessary part in an 
efficient manner. 
It then took British Gas just under four weeks to arrange an engineer to visit to complete the 
repair. Mr P has explained how this timeline was drawn out for two reasons  he said British 
Gas didnt have available engineers and he said British Gas didnt attend when he had been 
expecting them to as appointments hadnt been logged / scheduled properly.
I wouldve expected British Gas to have arranged an appointment and repaired the washing 
machine promptly after the part was received. I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect 
this to have been completed no later than 7 to 10 days after the part had been received, so 
by 25 October 2021. The repair happened about two weeks after this, so I think there is 
some avoidable delay here.
Therefore, I have considered whether the £250 compensation is fair for the two-week 
delayed repair of the washing machine, along with the associated costs of getting a 
temporary washing solution at the launderette and for the missed appointments. I appreciate 
that Mr P would like to understand how much compensation is given for every component of 
the failed service, but thats now how our service looks at compensation. I will consider what 
I think the overall impact of the failures are on Mr P and I will then provide an overall award 
of compensation comparable with what our service would offer for similar issues and 
inconvenience.
In any claim there will be a level of inconvenience  its unfortunate Mr Ps washing machine 
wasnt available, but its not reasonable to hold British Gas responsible for this until 25 
October 2021 (the date I said I wouldve expected the repair normally to have been 
completed by). I think its fair that British Gas cover the cost of the interim washing solution 
after this date (for two weeks) as it caused an avoidable delay. I can see there is some 
disagreement on exactly what appointments were scheduled and which were missed. 
However, Mr P has made a passionate case and I think he is genuine when he has said he 
has been let down more than once by British Gas.
That been said, I do think the £250 compensation paid by British Gas is significant and is fair 
for the level of distress and inconvenience caused in the circumstances. I think its consistent 
with the award our service would consider as reasonable for the costs of getting washing 
cleaned at the launderette for two weeks and for the inconvenience of the missed 
appointments. 
Whilst Mr P is reasonable in saying British Gas shouldve allowed him to appoint his own 
contractor from the start. I think its reasonable to expect another contractor would need to 
order parts as well as arrange a supplementary appointment, so I can only award 
compensation for the avoidable delays caused which is what I have done. Therefore, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman