DRN-2657984
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) recorded a CIFAS marker 
against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud prevention agency. He is also unhappy that 
Natwest closed his account. 
What happened
In October 2015 Mr A opened an account with Natwest. A week later the account was 
credited with two payments totalling £1,030; that money was withdrawn the same day with at 
least part of it being via a cash machine (ATM). 
The payments into the account were later identified as fraudulent  meaning the holder(s) of 
the account(s) from which they were made hadnt authorised them. This was reported to 
Natwest by the other bank on behalf of their customer(s) the same day. 
Natwest closed Mr As account and placed a CIFAS marker against Mr As name. Mr A 
complained, he didnt think it was fair that there was a marker against his name nor that his 
account had been closed. When he referred the complaint to this service, one of our 
investigators looked at it but thought that Natwest had acted fairly. Mr A didnt agree and 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that another bank reported to Natwest that the credits made into Mr As account 
were as a result of fraud and I think its reasonable for them to rely on that information. The 
withdrawals from Mr As account that took place the same day were both in branch and via 
an ATM. Im satisfied that at least the ATM withdrawal would have required the use of the 
card and PIN. 
Mr A hasnt provided information to suggest that these withdrawals were conducted by 
anyone other than him. He said I lost my personal documents at the time which resulted in 
my account being closed... but hasnt elaborated further. Our investigator made numerous 
attempts to seek further information and explanations from Mr A but nothing has been 
forthcoming.  
From the evidence Ive seen I think its likely Mr A knows more about what has gone on here 
then he has shared with Natwest or our service. The bar to place a CIFAS marker is high. 
Natwest must have reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted. They must also have sufficient information such that they could 
report matters to the authorities. In this case, I think there was enough information for 
Natwest to do so and I dont think they acted unfairly by reporting to CIFAS as they did. 
Im also satisfied that the terms of Mr As account with Natwest enable them to end their 
business relationship with him  just as Mr A would be free to choose who he banks with. I 
dont think Natwest exercising their discretion to do so is unfair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Overall, I dont think Mr A has been treated unfairly by Natwest and so Im not going to tell 
them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman