DRN-3564281
The complaint
Mrs A complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) didnt administer her account properly and 
delayed its transfer, causing her stress and financial loss.
What happened
Mrs A says she started the transfer process in August 2020 and it completed in April 2021. 
She is unhappy with ITI Capitals lack of responsiveness as well as its overall service.
In July 2020 ITI Capital took on Mrs As account and she opted to have ITI Capital transfer it 
elsewhere rather than opting to stay with and trade through ITI Capital. On 12 August 2020 
ITI Capitals system asked Mrs A to upload identification documents so her request could be 
processed. 
Mrs A uploaded identification documents on 12 September 2020 alongside a transfer form 
she had completed for her new provider. Shed signed that form towards the end of August 
asking her new provider to transfer her assets and cash from ITI Capital. Her new provider 
produced a letter on 4 September requesting the transfer from ITI Capital, enclosing Mrs As 
transfer form.
On 12 September Mrs A also uploaded a message saying she would not complete the form 
on ITI Capitals website because this asked for her bank details and she was concerned this 
would result in her ISA cash being paid into her bank account and removed from her ISA.
On 17 September ITI Capital emailed Mrs A asking her to make sure that she provided a 
transfer out order, her identification details and details of her bank account  amongst other 
things. Mrs A emailed back on 18 September repeating her concern that her funds be kept in 
an ISA and not be paid to her bank account. She said ITI Capitals online form couldnt be 
finished unless bank details were provided. She was also not happy that the form asked for 
certain details of her new provider that she did not have. She said she had already given her 
authority to ITI Capital to carry out the transfer  as this was on the new providers transfer 
form. So she wanted ITI Capital to proceed based on the form she had given and to ask her 
new provider for anything more that it needed.
On 5 October 2020 Mrs A complained to ITI Capital about not having received a reply to her 
previous email and about ITI Capital holding up the transfer. Her view was she had provided 
ITI Capital with her new providers transfer form and ITI Capital actions, in asking for more, 
were unreasonable, designed to delay matters, deprived her of investment opportunities and 
wasted a lot of her time. She was also concerned the time taken to complete the transfer 
might eventually exceed the six-month period during which Mrs A was exempted from fees.
ITI Capital has said it asked the new provider for the transfer request on 5 October and got 
this by email on 12 October. But ITI Capital has also said a representative of Mrs A was 
chasing it about the transfer in September and provided copies of the transfer requests at 
that time. Also the transfer request sent by the provider in October was dated 4 September, 
which was when it was first produced.
ITI Capital replied to Mrs As complaint at the end of November 2020. It apologised for not 
replying to all Mrs As messages and for what it said had been a delay in carrying out the 
transfer  which it said had since been placed on a high priority list. It offered Mrs A £125 to 
settle her complaint.
ITI Capital has since said the transfer of Mrs As assets completed on 12 November 2020 
and her cash followed on 14 December. 
Mrs A did not accept ITI Capitals offer to settle her complaint. She came to us saying she 
wanted more substantial redress to reflect investment opportunities missed due to her 
assets and cash being unnecessarily stranded with ITI Capital, and also to reflect the stress 
caused and the time and energy the matter had wasted. She told us cash of £180 was still 
outstanding and she was concerned this would not be paid to her by ITI Capital. 
ITI Capital says dividends it received in January 2021 were later paid to Mrs As new 
provider in April 2021. Mrs A has since confirmed that the cash due has been paid.
Our investigator told Mrs A in March 2022 that ITI Capital had increased its offer to £250. 
Mrs A thought this needed to be higher if it were to be in line with other offers of which she 
was aware. Also she considered redress for missed investment opportunity ought to be 
included. She thought it wrong if in her case her claim for this needed to be accompanied by 
evidence of trading  because she said her ITI Capital account was not a trading account 
and so she was not allowed to trade. She said it was difficult to quantify her loss but this 
didnt make it right to say no loss occurred or there shouldnt be redress for it.
Our investigator thought ITI Capital should offer Mrs A £350 as compensation but did not 
agree that ITI Capital should pay anything for her loss of investment opportunity. In short this 
was because there wasnt evidence of any trades Mrs A had tried to make, and been 
prevented from making, during the time in which the transfer had been delayed.
Mrs A reiterated that her account was not a trading account and that she had not agreed to 
ITI Capitals terms. In her view she was as a result legally stopped from trading at ITI Capital. 
She considered this legal aspect hasnt been considered properly and is why she couldnt 
produce evidence of attempts to trade and why she should still receive redress for missed 
investment opportunities in the absence of this evidence. She says she can only provide 
proof of trading carried out after the transfer.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded and wrote to ITI Capital and Mrs A expressing the view 
that £350 was fair redress to settle Mrs As complaint. Our investigator noted messages on 
ITI Capitals website that told customers in September and October 2020 that customers 
could place orders over the phone at online dealing rates and that this was regardless of the 
status of the clients registration. So our investigator thought Mrs A couldve traded. Also our 
investigator thought the absence of evidence of any clear intention on Mrs As part to carry 
out any specific trades at ITI Capital, was still a reason for not proposing a financial award 
be paid to Mrs A for any missed investment opportunities. 
ITI Capital replied with more information about the case - but didnt comment on our 
investigators proposal that it pay Mrs A £350 instead of the £250 it had offered.Mrs A hadnt seen the website messages to which our investigator had referred. But she 
didnt think a website message was sufficient anyway. She thought ITI Capital should have 
emailed her this information instead, especially if it overrode the legal position which in her 
view was that she was unable to trade with ITI Capital. She said the fact her assets and cash 
were never moved onto an ITI Capital trading account, supports her view. She said the 
investigators findings failed to grasp the difference between an ITI Capital holding account, 
which is what she had, and an ITI Capital trading account. Also she said ITI Capital was not 
answering calls at the time, so it wouldnt have been possible to trade by phone anyway. 
Mrs A still thought asking for proof of her having tried to trade, as a prerequisite for redress 
for missing out on being able to trade, was unfair. She considered it amounted to asking her 
to prove the impossible - because it was not possible for her to trade on her account.
Also, after reviewing the online messages about trading, Mrs A didnt consider these applied 
to her situation anyway. The messages refer to trading accounts, which she didnt have and 
wasnt getting, and refer to a migration process she interprets as referring to migrations to 
trading accounts, which didnt apply in her case. Also references to how online rates will be 
charged for phone trades, are references that only apply to those with, or who were waiting 
to get, the facility to trade that was offered by a trading account. This didnt apply to Mrs A.
Also Mrs A said that if she had traded by phone with ITI Capital, it couldve been a way for 
ITI Capital, unfairly, to get her to agree to trading terms to which she hadnt agreed and 
hadnt wanted to agree.
Our investigators view remained the same and so, as Mrs As complaint wasnt resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain my reasons.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that the transfer took longer than it ought to have taken  a 
view I share. 
The transfer request from Mrs As new provider was requested by ITI Capital at the start of 
October 2020, but it appears this was sent to ITI Capital originally at the start of September. 
It also appears, from what ITI Capital has told us, that ITI Capital was being chased about 
this in September. Also Mrs A appears to have uploaded identification details in September. 
It took two months from then to arrange the transfer of assets. That was too long in my view. 
The cash took longer still  a further month. More was paid later in April 2021 but that 
doesnt change the overall picture very much in my view, given the small sum involved then.
So ITI Capital didnt do what it ought to have done and in my view this caused Mrs A upset 
as well as inconvenience, such as wasted time. Ill return to that issue later. It is also the 
case that while her cash and asset holdings were delayed with ITI Capital, Mrs A believed 
she was unable to trade  and sell existing assets or buy or sell new assets. If this was the 
case and it caused Mrs A financial loss, then ITI Capital ought to remedy that too. 
So Ive considered whether the evidence suggests there are profitable trades Mrs A didnt 
make but most likely wouldve made if it hadnt been for ITI Capitals delay.  Mrs A hasnt offered any specific suggestions of trades or changes to her holdings that she 
was contemplating during the time she was waiting for the transfer to be completed. So the 
evidence I have doesnt support the conclusion that there were specific trades or changes 
Mrs A might have made to her holdings that she wouldve profited from and that ITI Capitals 
delay prevented her from carrying out. So Im not persuaded that there were particular 
trades or changes to Mrs As holdings that Mrs A wouldve made but was prevented from 
making by ITI Capitals delay. So I dont think it would be fair for ITI Capital to compensate 
Mrs A now for the profits that might have been made from such trades. 
I dont overlook that Mrs As account was not a trading account and that, as far as she was 
concerned, she was unable to make trades on it. So it isnt surprising she didnt contact 
ITI Capital to make trades while she was waiting for the transfer to complete. But neither did 
she tell ITI Capital at any point during its delay that the delay was stopping her from making 
a particular trade she wanted to make. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs A formed a firm intention to carry out any particular 
trade or trades during the period of ITI Capitals delay. So I do not think it fair or reasonable 
to award her redress for not having been able to carry out particular trades. I appreciate she 
might have considered her options earlier if the transfer had competed earlier. But I havent 
enough to conclude that more likely than not the result wouldve been trades or changes to 
her holdings of a kind from which she would most likely have profited.
So even if ITI Capitals delay or failings did prevent Mrs A from trading, what I have doesnt 
persuade me that this most likely caused Mrs A financial loss. Of course I dont overlook that 
ITI Capital says Mrs A could actually have traded by phone anyway - and so was not in fact 
prevented from making any trades she might have wished to make. If that were the case, it 
would potentially give further reason for saying ITI Capital should not pay Mrs A redress for 
trades she might have wanted to make but didnt make or try to make. But in light of the 
conclusions Ive already reached above, I dont need to decide or consider this further here.
So, for the reasons Ive given, I do not think it fair and reasonable to award Mrs A redress for 
financial loss arising from missed investment opportunities caused by ITI Capitals failings or 
delay of the transfer  because Im not satisfied that more likely than not Mrs A was caused 
to suffer a financial loss of that kind as a result of ITI Capitals delay or failings.
Returning to the upset and inconvenience caused to Mrs A by ITI Capitals failings and 
delay, Ive carefully considered all Mrs A and ITI Capital have said about this. Having done 
so, Im persuaded ITI Capital ought to compensate Mrs A for this upset and inconvenience. I 
find it would be fair and reasonable for ITI Capital to pay Mrs A £350 for this. I say this based 
on the particular circumstances of this complaint as discussed above, and also bearing in 
mind Ive seen nothing from the parties to suggest that this wouldnt be fair redress for this.
So I uphold Mrs As complaint to the extent and for the reasons Ive explained above.
Im grateful to Mrs A for the documents and the detailed summaries she gave us during our 
consideration of her complaint, which greatly assisted our investigation. I thank the parties 
for the help they have given us.Putting things right
Ive found ITI Capital Limited at fault, so ITI Capital Limited should put things right. To 
compensate Mrs A for distress and inconvenience ITI Capitals failings caused her, 
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mrs A £350.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Mrs A the sum above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mrs As acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mrs A 
simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mrs As complaint and order ITI Capital Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman