DRN-3514620
The complaint
Mr S says WorldRemit Ltd was wrong to close his account, giving excessive use of the Refer 
a Friend scheme as the reason. 
What happened
Mr S made 18 referrals under WorldRemits Refer a Friend scheme during March and April 
2021. On each occasion he and the friend received a reward voucher. On 22 April 2021 
WorldRemit closed Mr Ss account as it suspected he was misusing the promotion. It  
pointed to clause 2 of the terms of the Refer a Friend scheme that gives the example of 
misuse as generating a number of electronic vouchers which is, in WorldRemits discretion, 
excessive and not in accordance with the spirit of this promotion and clause 18.3 in its 
general terms and conditions that allows it to terminate an agreement if it reasonably 
believes an accountholder is using their account in a way that breaches its terms of service.
Mr S says he has done nothing that breaches the terms of the scheme or the agreement. 
The promotional material for the Refer a Friend scheme said, Once youve received your 
referral code, you can start sharing it right away with as many friends as you like. He wants 
to be able to use the £220 in reward vouchers he accumulated and to be paid £500 
compensation for the unfair account closure.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said WorldRemit had provided 
examples of how it felt Mr S was misusing the scheme (transfers sent to an account he held 
with another international transfer company; low value transfers to allow Mr G to gain more 
from the scheme than he would pay in currency conversion; and it also referenced a query 
he made about domestic transfers to evidence this belief). She said the terms of the scheme 
reference excessive voucher generation and the overall terms of service allow WorldRemit 
to terminate an agreement if it has the reasonable belief any of its services are being used 
improperly. 
Mr S disagreed with this assessment. In summary, he said there was no term to prevent him 
making £20.99 transfers to use any £20 reward. It is irrelevant whether WorldRemit feels he 
breached the spirit of the scheme; he did not breach the terms and conditions. His query 
about domestic transfers was also not relevant. And he had not breached the wider terms of 
service as there was nothing in his actions that was fraudulent, illegal, ethical or immoral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
From what I can see, in defending its decision WorldRemit said its fraud and compliance 
team flagged Mr Ss account as showing activity consistent with other instances where its 
Refer a Friend Scheme has been abused. It is my understanding this was the combination 
of the volume of referrals and the fact Mr S was sending funds to a certain third-party 
account in a certain country that allows an accountholder to quickly convert their currency 
back into pounds, gaining more from the referral scheme than they lose form the currency 
conversion. It has said this is a pattern of scheme misuse it is aware of and so it monitors 
accounts to prevent/limit this activity.
I therefore think WorldRemit was entitled under clause 18.3 of its main terms to terminate its 
agreement with Mr S and close his account. This term sets out:
We can terminate the Agreement with immediate effect if you(e) are, in our reasonable 
belief, using the Portal and/or any of our Services in connection with fraudulent, illegal, 
unethical, immoral or Prohibited activity permitting or encouraging a third party to do any 
of these things.
Mr S argues there was nothing improper in his actions. But what I need to decide is not 
whether Mr S definitely acted in breach of the terms, but rather whether it was fair for 
WorldRemit to conclude he was in breach in its reasonable belief. And given what it has 
said about the activity on Mr Ss account I think it made a fair decision.
Mr S also pointed out that clause 2 of the scheme terms allows WorldRemit to reject or 
cancel a refer a friend request  not to prevent the use of vouchers already issued to an 
existing accountholder, or close their account. And I accept that argument could be run and 
may be relevant if this case turned on the analysis of that clause. But for the reasons set out 
above it does not, and so it does not change my conclusion. I have found clause 18.3 in the 
general terms supports WorldRemits actions in the circumstances. 
Similarly Mr Ss point that the marketing material for the scheme read Once youve received 
your referral code, you can start sharing it right away with as many friends as you like does 
not change my conclusion as WorldRemit did not make its decision solely based the number 
of referrals he made. 
It follows I am not instructing WorldRemit to take any action.
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman