DRN-1111328
The complaint
Miss W complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) unfairly put a default on her credit file. She 
would like it removed 
What happened
 Miss W said she has a catalogue account with Next. She says she has difficult personal 
circumstances. And in 2017 she was ill and unable to make payments to her account. 
She has now discovered Next has put a default on her credit file. She says she has paid off 
the outstanding sum of £84.64. But the default on her credit file is preventing her getting 
credit which she needs.
Next said it sent monthly statements and letters to Miss W from May to August 2018 asking 
her to get in touch, but she didnt do so. It said it had a duty to report accurate information on 
credit files which is what it had done. It did explain to Miss W she could apply to put a notice 
of correction on her credit file to explain her circumstances.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He found that Next had tried to contact 
Miss W prior to issuing a default notice but had had no response. So, he didnt feel Next 
acted unfairly in registering the default.
Next accepted this view but Miss W didnt. She said she had no knowledge of the default 
notice and asked for proof it had been sent. She said she had had problems with mail 
deliveries. She said the default impacted her ability to get credit. And as the amount owed 
was relatively small (£84) and had been paid off she felt it was reasonable to remove the 
default from her credit file.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He clarified Next sent 
the default notice on 30 August 2018 but as no payment was made in response to this letter 
the account defaulted on 19 September 2018. He said the account passed to Nexts internal 
debt recovery department first but when Miss C made no contact it then passed to an 
external debt collection agency.
He noted the business view that Miss W said the problem was she didnt open post not that 
she didnt get it. And that the information Miss W provided from the postal service related to 
a problem with post she sent not post she received. Also, that the letter from the postal 
service was dated nearly a year after Next issued the default notice.
Miss W at this point asked for an Ombudsmans final decision. She maintained there was no 
evidence the default notice had been served as she hadnt signed to say she received it. 
And she felt the fact Next used two different debt collection agencies made the default 
invalid. She added that her credit file had not yet been updated to show she had paid off the 
balance on the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W feels strongly about her complaint, so I appreciate she is going to be disappointed as 
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Theres no dispute that Miss W failed to make payments on her account, that her account 
then fell into arrears or that Next registered a default on Miss Ws credit file.
I have looked at all the correspondence that Next sent to Miss W from January 2018 until it 
registered the default in September 2018.  Apart from monthly statements  which clearly 
highlighted when payments hadnt been made Next also sent numerous other letters  too 
many for me to feel its practical to list here. 
But Nexts correspondence included several letters advising Miss W she was in arrears on 
her account and asking her to get touch, Default notice letters sent in April and August 2018 
and notice her account was being passed to the debt recovery team in September 2018.
The letters were correctly addressed. Miss W has given us some evidence she has had 
problems with her post. Although it also seems she told Next she didnt open her post. The 
letter Miss W has given us from the postal service relates to post she sent not that she 
received. And as the business has noted the letter is dated 9 August 2019  so nearly a year 
after the default was applied to her account. So, I dont believe the postal problems Miss W 
are relevant here.
Ive also noted Miss W did receive a default notice Next sent on 4 April 2018 since she 
responded to that by making a payment.
So, I am persuaded that Next sent regular correspondence to Miss W about her account 
giving her every opportunity to settle the balance. And there is no evidence to show the 
letters were returned. I think its most likely Miss W either didnt open or didnt action the 
letters.
Miss W has made the point she didnt sign to show recipe of the default notice. I understand 
the letters were sent by first close post but didnt need to be signed for. So as there was no 
requirement to sign for any of the letters I dont feel , as Miss W seems to suggest, that this 
makes the default invalid.
Miss W has also said she feels another reason the default isnt valid is because  Next used 
two different debt collection agencies. Next has confirmed that Miss Ws account first 
transferred to its internal debt collection team. And then was put to an external debt 
collection agency. I dont see why this process would in any way invalidate the default on 
Miss Ws credit file.
Miss W has told she has difficult personal health and personal circumstances which she has 
evidenced to us. And financial problems which is why her account went into arrears. We do 
expect businesses to respond sympathetically to consumers in difficulty. But I havent seen 
any evidence that Miss W advised Next of her problems before she put her formal complaint 
in. So I dont believe that Next had the opportunity to make any adjustments such as 
agreeing a payment break or reduced payments if appropriate.
As I dont believe Miss W advised Next of her situation and didnt respond to Nexts 
correspondence, I dont think it was unreasonable for Next to default Miss Ws account.I appreciate Miss W feels that as she has now paid off the amount owing that she doesnt 
feel its fair that the default remains on her credit file for six years. She says she is having 
problems getting credit due to this. I have no reason to disbelieve her, but I havent seen any 
evidence of this. There may well be several reasons as to why credit applications may have 
been declined not just the default Next registered.
It is important that credit files are an accurate record of accounts. As I dont believe Next has 
done anything wrong, I dont think I can reasonably expect Next to remove the default from 
Miss Ws credit file. Next has explained that Miss W could consider asking for a notice of 
correction to be put on her credit file and has explained to her how to do this. Miss W might 
want to consider this.
Ive noted Miss W has told us her credit file doesnt yet show she had paid off her 
outstanding debt. Changes to credit files can take some time to go through. Its some while 
since Miss W made that point to us so I would expect her credit file to now be accurate. If it 
isnt, I suggest Miss W contacts Next about this in the first instance
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman