DRN-1506239
 
complaint
Ms W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
background
Ms W took out a credit card with Capital One in 2003. At the same time she bought a PPI 
policy which wouldve helped covered the repayments on her card if she wasnt able to work.
 
Ms W says she didnt know PPI had been added to the card. She says she didnt tick the box 
to say she wanted it, so someone else must have done it.
 
The adjudicator thought that Ms Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms W disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
 
Capital One has provided a copy of the application form Ms W completed to take out the 
card. Ms W returned this application form by post. Theres a separate section for PPI which 
makes clear that the insurance is optional. Theres a tick in the box to indicate that Ms W 
wanted it and the form is signed. Ms W says this wasnt her tick. And she says that a number 
of other ticks on the form arent hers either. She says they must have been entered by 
someone after she completed the form.
 While I sympathise with Ms Ws position its very difficult to be satisfied over 16 years later 
that this was, indeed, the case. Ms W had PPI on her account for nearly three years after 
she took out the card, and she received a statement each month detailing the PPI charges. I 
think if Ms W hadnt agreed to take the PPI that shed have queried it as soon as she saw it 
on her statement. 
 
Ms W says that a number of other ticks on the application form arent hers either. But its not 
clear why Ms W wouldnt have ticked these while completing the application form. For 
example, Ms W added her partner as an additional cardholder, writing his name out in full in 
one section. There is a tick in the box for his title (Mr) which Ms W says isnt hers. Similarly, 
Ms W has ticked boxes to state that she already held certain types of cards. I think its likely 
she did hold other types of cards, so I dont see why she wouldnt have ticked these boxes 
herself. 
 
On the balance of probabilities I think its more likely that Ms W agreed to buy the PPI 
knowing she had a choice about it although I understand why she might not remember that 
so many years later.
 
Capital One didnt make a personal recommendation to Ms W about the PPI so it didnt need 
to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it 
gave her all the information she needed to make her own decision. I dont think Capital One 
did this well enough. For example, theres no mention of what the exact benefits or costs 
were. 
 
But looking at Ms Ws circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. I think its likely Ms W understood the policy would pay a benefit if she 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Ms W chose to take out the PPI, it seems she was 
interested in this type of cover. 
 
It doesnt look like Ms W was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances  so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Ms 
W.
 
Ms W says she was only entitled to two weeks sick pay from her employer, followed by 
statutory sick pay. And given her length of service she wouldnt have been entitled to any 
statutory redundancy pay. The policy wouldve covered his repayments for up to a year at a 
time, so I think it was useful for her and I dont think she wouldve changed her mind about 
taking the policy if shed understood it better. 
 The policy cost was comparable in terms of costs and benefits to other similar policies on the 
market around the same time. And it was flexible because it could be cancelled at any time 
without a financial penalty.
 
So, on balance, I think Ms W wouldve still bought the policy if shed understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Ms W lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong.
 
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint, so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have 
to pay any compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman