DRN-3314458
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund payments 
they made using their HSBC Visa debit card.  They made these payments to 
Optionstarsglobal, which turned out to be a fraudulent binary options company.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Between September to December 2017, Mr and Mrs S made several payments to their 
trading account they held with Optionstarsglobal.  They used their HSBC Visa debit card to 
make these payments.  In short, Mr and Mrs S say that Optionstarsglobal prevented them 
from withdrawing their funds and stole their money.  They also say they later discovered that 
Optionstarsglobal were operating as a scam.
Mr and Mrs S asked HSBC to try to recover their money from Optionstarsglobal.  As this did 
not happen, they raised a complaint which they also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He said HSBC should have 
considered the payments in question unusual because a warning about Optionstarsglobal 
had been placed on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO).  This warning was published on 13 December 2016 (which was 
more than a month before Mr and Mrs Ss first payment to Optionstarsglobal on 14 
September 2017).  The investigator argued that despite this, HSBC did not intervene, 
provide a warning, or ask Mr and Mrs S any appropriate or probing questions to uncover the 
scam concerned.  He considered that this was a missed opportunity for HSBC to intervene.  
For these reasons, the investigator asked HSBC to refund Mr and Mrs S their money.
Mr and Mrs S accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.  In the interest of 
conciseness, I will repeat HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully summarised its key 
points in the conclusions section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do not
accept that we should be held responsible for [Mr and Mrs Ss] loss for the following
reasons:
There is a striking lack of detail as regards the background of this complaint and only 
limited information on key issues has been provided in support, which raises further 
concerns;
The adjudicator has selectively quoted from the FSA Consultation Paper, and 
misapplies it to this opinion;
The adjudicators findings in respect of our actions are unrealistic and unreasonable. 
In particular, the assertion that we were obliged to act on an IOSCO warning and the 
amount of information we were expected to obtain from [Mr and Mrs S];
The adjudicator seeks to apply retrospective regulation by the back door  that is not 
the purpose of your service. If the regulator intended that we be obliged to take steps 
to block payments to merchants one month after they were the subject of an IOSCO 
warning they would have made this clear. They did not; and
The adjudicators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed and 
unsupportable.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its 
predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to 
resolve is whether this particular retailer/trader was actually a fraudster. 
I am satisfied that Optionstarsglobal were not carrying out legitimate binary-options trades 
but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets 
with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to 
show purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce further investments 
from victims such as Mr and Mrs S.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have 
concluded this because: 
a)Prior to January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK 
were required to be licensed by the UKs Gambling Commission  
whereas Optionstarsglobal were not.  Nor were they regulated or licensed in any 
other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware.  This indicates they were 
operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions.  Legitimate firms tend to 
comply with regulatory requirements.
b)A warning about Optionstarsglobal was placed on the IOSCOs Investors Alerts 
Portal on 13 December 2016.  (And on the FCAs website published on 25 June 2018 
 albeit this was after the payments concerned were made.)
c)There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that Optionstarsglobal were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself 
sufficient evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly 
and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall 
picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity HSBC is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr and Mrs S for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Mr and Mrs S using the legitimate security credentials 
provided to them by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even 
though Mr and Mrs S was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although they did not 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Mr and Mrs S is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff 
within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
In Mr and Mrs Ss case, there was a warning about Optionstarsglobal placed on the 
IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal on 13 December 2016  this warning was more than a 
month before the first payment on 14 September 2017.  It is not unreasonable to expect a 
large international bank that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about 
payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission.  I accept that the 
warning did not specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not necessarily follow 
from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters.  Given the timing of 
the alert relative to the first payment, I think HSBC ought to have automatically 
blocked it; as it had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-list between the warning being published and the payment being made.  The bank had constructive if not 
actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have 
been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr and Mrs S before processing all 
the payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well. 
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr and Mrs 
S and asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that they would have 
explained what they were doing.  In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to 
protect them from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited them to 
check whether the payee was registered with the UKs Gambling Commission.  It could 
have also explained its own customer experiences with merchants like Optionstarsglobal 
in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, 
at that time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have 
known even if a lay consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary 
options including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; 
the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, 
and so forth). 
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr and Mrs S with any meaningful warnings or 
gave them other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments they were making.  It 
was a missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation 
 
If HSBC had asked Mr and Mrs S what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that 
everything had been done over the phone and online with the merchant.  HSBC did not 
need to know for certain whether Mr and Mrs S were dealing with a fraudulent binary 
options trader or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable 
grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various 
regulations and principles of good practice.  I consider there were such grounds here and, 
therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the 
information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with 
unregulated, overseas binary options.  
 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr and Mrs S would have paused and looked 
more closely into Optionstarsglobal before proceeding.  There is no evidence that they 
were willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling.  It 
seems more probable that they would have made further enquiries into binary-options 
scams and whether or not Optionstarsglobal regulated in the United Kingdom or abroad. 
They could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the 
risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above).  In other words, I am satisfied that a 
warning from their trusted bank would probably have exposed Optionstarsglobals false 
pretences, causing them to stop trading and preventing the losses. 
 
As I think the HSBC ought to have blocked all of the transactions, I dont need to conclude 
whether or not the bank did enough to attempt or pursue chargeback claims. 
 
Contributory negligence 
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.  
In this case, I do not think that Mr and Mrs S were to blame for what happened; that they 
did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  
I do not think Mr and Mrs S could have foreseen the risk that the company they were 
dealing with was a scam and the trading account they were viewing was likely to be a 
simulation. 
 
Therefore, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on 
the basis that Mr and Mrs S should share blame for what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my financial decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I 
therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc:
Refund to Mr and Mrs S the money they lost (totaling £24,750);
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr and Mrs Ss 
account until the date of settlement; and
If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr and Mrs S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman