DRN-2573744
The complaint
Mr A complains that his car was damaged when it was taken for repair following an accident. 
Although the complaint is about the actions of the company that recovered the car, the 
company was acting as an agent of Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) so I can 
look at this as a complaint against Admiral.
What happened
Mr A had motor insurance with Admiral. Following an accident, Admiral arranged for the car 
to be recovered for repair. Mr A said that when he went to collect the car after it had been 
repaired, there was new damage which hadnt been there before and wasnt caused by the 
accident. The repair company agreed to fix some scratches, but Mr A said that there was 
also damage to the alloy wheels, one mud flap and the windscreen. 
The repair company arranged for a firm of consulting automobile engineers to look at the 
car. The engineer confirmed there was wheel damage consistent with the recovery process 
and damage to the windscreen caused by a stone chip.
Mr A complained about the damage and Admiral asked the recovery company to respond. 
The recovery company said that a damage assessment was completed before the car was 
loaded onto the recovery vehicle. This showed damage to all four wheels and was signed by 
Mr A.
Mr A was not happy with this response and went back to the recovery company, also 
mentioning the damage to the windscreen. The recovery company said if he provided 
evidence of the excess payable for the windscreen repair, it would consider making a 
contribution as a goodwill gesture.
Mr A was not happy with the further response and complained to this service. He said when 
the condition report was completed there were only two minor marks on the car. Mr A said 
he had not seen the completed condition report and had just signed a screen electronically. 
He said he wasnt concerned about the damage to the mud flap, but felt it was consistent 
with damage being caused during recovery. Our investigator upheld his complaint and said 
Admiral should arrange for the alloy wheels and windscreen to be repaired.
The recovery company on behalf of Admiral did not agree to this, saying its operator used 
industry standard straps to recover the car, and Mr A had signed the condition report. The 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is to uphold Mr As complaint. I will explain why.
I have seen a copy of the condition report form for Mr As car, apparently completed before it 
was loaded onto the recovery vehicle. It looks to be an electronically completed document 
although there are what look to be handwritten crosses at various points of the car, including 
all four wheels, and somewhere at the front, possibly the windscreen.
There are a number of typewritten questions on the form. Under the heading 
Weather/vehicle condition Vehicle the boxes Wet, Dirty and Unable to see fully are 
ticked. Under the heading Acceptance Statements the box Acceptance that a visual 
vehicle inspection was not practical on arrival has been ticked. Under the heading 
Customer Acceptance Mr As full name is typed into a box. 
Looking at this report I think it likely that it was difficult if not impossible to do a thorough 
inspection of Mr As car when it was recovered. I cant say if the apparently handwritten 
crosses were made when the car was recovered or some time later. In any event, there is no 
detail on the condition report as to what marks or damage the crosses are supposed to 
indicate. So I cant say that any damage recorded on the form is the same as the damage 
reported by the engineer.
I have seen photos of Mr As car apparently taken at collection and after repair, but it is 
difficult to see whether there is damage to the wheels and windscreen or not, so I am not 
relying on these in making my decision.
I have seen the consulting motor engineers report which states
We can confirm that damage is evident to the wheels and the damage appears consistent 
with recovery damage. The damage is on three points of the wheelsWe can confirm that 
damage is evident to the windscreen. A stone chip is evident to the windscreen which has 
caused the crackWe also note the vehicle has been in storage for over 3 months so the 
damage could have happen [sic] on site.
So on balance I think the damage to Mr As car was caused by Admirals agent during 
recovery and/or storage.
My final decision
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to arrange to repair the damage to the alloy 
wheels and windscreen of Mr As car as identified in the consulting motor engineers report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman