DRN-4426139
The complaint
Mr S complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt deal with his motor insurance policy 
correctly and this caused him financial loss. 
What happened
Mr S took out motor insurance with UKI in June 2023 and paid for the premium in full. 
Mr S received his no claims from his previous insurer but it was incorrect so he had to liaise 
with the underwriter of his previous insurer in order to correct the information. Mr S says he 
kept UKI updated as to what action he was taking. 
Mr S says he spoke to someone at UKI and was told it would wait and call Mr S back in a 
week for an update. But UKI didnt call. 
Mr S says he told UKI that a fraudulent claim had effected his no claims and he was trying to 
sort it out. UKI assured Mr S no money would be taken without calling him first. And then he 
was told UKI would attempt to take the money without a call. So, he received conflicting 
information. 
Mr S says he contacted UKI to let them know hed resolved the issue with the no claims 
discount and to hold off attempting to take any funds. But UKI took approximately £96 from 
his account before it was supposed to. 
Mr S says he repeatedly sent emails explaining what was happening and to explain the 
consequences of them taking the money. Mr S explained he was a single dad with a 
disabled daughter. 
Mr S wants to be reimbursed and wants compensation for how UKI acted. He says UKI 
didnt even write to him regarding the matter and referred his complaint to another company 
to deal with the payments. Mr S also wants to cancel his insurance with UKI and for the 
cancellation charge to be waived. Because Mr S wasnt happy he complained. 
UKI said it sent Mr S a copy of his documents when he took his policy out, and prior to the 
purchase of the policy he would have confirmed he read and agreed to the terms and 
conditions. UKI said it reviewed the documentation Mr S presented to validate the no claims 
bonus and identified that only three years no claims had been substantiated, but Mr S had 
declared he had nine years at policy inception. UKI didnt uphold the complaint. It said when 
Mr S took the insurance policy out he said he had nine years no claims but the evidence only 
showed three. Since Mr S was unable to substantiate the full nine years no claims UKI 
adjusted the policy to reflect the proof provided. 
UKI contacted Mr Ss previous insurer but since it didnt have specific authority to speak to 
them the matter couldnt be validated any further. UKI said the information provided from Mr 
S only shows the claim date and number, but no confirmation that no claims bonus was 
increased to 9 years, or that the claim was fraudulent. UKI said to reverse the additional 
premium Mr S would need to provide evidence of the declared nine years no claim bonus.  
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the response from UKI. So he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our investigators looked into things for him. He said 
he thought UKI dealt with the matter in a fair and reasonable manner. He said UKI gave Mr 
S a deadline by which to provide the information and since that was missed UKI took steps 
to obtain payment for the additional premium. 
Mr S didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Additional premium and no claims discount 
I can see that Mr S is unhappy UKI took the additional premium from his account when he 
was trying to sort out the issue with his previous insurer and his no claims discount. Ive no 
doubt Mr S provided UKI with the information and detail it required in order to obtain motor 
insurance and acted in good faith. I can understand why hes unhappy that UKI charged the 
additional premium and then took payment seven days later, especially given he was trying 
to sort out the matter with his previous insurer. 
UKI wrote to Mr S in July 2023 to explain that his premium would change since there was a 
discrepancy in the number of no claims discount years disclosed. So an additional £96.84 
was added, which included a £25 mid-term adjustment fee. The letter also said, we will 
collect this amount from the credit or debit card that is securely held on file in 7 days. 
Mr S contacted UKI on the same date to discuss the premium. During the course of that call 
the agent offered to set up a payment plan for the additional premium over six or seven 
months and confirmed that if proof of no claims was subsequently received the additional 
premium would be refunded. And I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. But Mr S 
didnt take this course of action. And I think if he had then he wouldnt have found himself in 
the situation he did. 
Mr S also indicated he wanted to cancel his policy to give himself enough time to sort out the 
issue with the fraudulent claim and the no claims discount. But he didnt do this since it 
would incur a cancellation fee. 
Ive considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint including 
what Mr S has said about the situation he was in and the effect of UKI taking the additional 
premium when it did. In the circumstances I think the insurer has acted fairly because Mr S 
was given notice about the payment being taken, and during the call with UKI on 11 July 
2023 he was given a number of options to assist him but he chose not to take any of them. I 
havent heard UKI tell Mr S that the premium wouldnt be taken, or that it would grant him an 
extension to provide the information. At that stage the nine years no claims hadnt been 
provided. So, UKI had no option but to charge the additional premium, since the price is 
based on the information it had. 
Telephone calls and emails 
Mr S says he sent UKI numerous emails that went unanswered. I havent seen evidence of 
this but Ive no reason to doubt his testimony. During the call to UKI on 11 July 2023 Mr S makes it clear that if the full premium would be 
taken as planned it would cause him financial difficulty. I would expect UKI to take that into 
account in its dealing with Mr S and, in particular, in how it dealt with the additional premium. 
After Mr S explained he wanted to cancel the policy to avoid the full premium being taken, 
the agent offers to arrange a payment plan for Mr S to pay the premium. Since the premium 
is owed by Mr S under the terms of the policy I think the suggestion of a payment plan is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.   
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. And I want to assure him I have 
considered everything hes told us. But UKI have acted within the terms of the policy and I 
dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman