DRN-2058741
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that the motorbike he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse Limited was misrepresented.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Fs licence only allowed him to drive a motorbike up to a certain power. The 
motorbike was supplied with a restrictor kit to reduce the motorbike to 25kw (33bhp) 
and a certificate of power was provided. Given this I think at the time of supply, Mr F 
had made the dealer ware of his licence restrictions and the dealer had acted to try to 
comply with this. It is reasonable to accept that Mr F believed the motorbike complied 
with his licence at that time.
Further evidence has since been provided to show that even with the restrictor kit 
installed the motorbike, the motorbike didnt comply with Mr Fs licence. As I accept 
that Mr F explained his requirements when he acquired the motorbike and relied on 
the information provided regarding the restriction of the motorbike at the point of 
supply I find, on balance, that a misrepresentation did occur at that point.
In October 2017, Mr F had the motorbike de-restricted. The job card from this time 
says that Mr F didnt provide proof that he had a full licence for this, but he did sign a 
disclaimer saying he had a full unrestricted licence. This wasnt true. So, while I 
accept that Mr F believed his motorbike complied with his licence at the outset, given 
the actions he took to de-restrict the motorbike I find that he was aware that the 
motorbike no longer complained with his licence. Because of this I think he should 
have been reasonably aware that he wouldnt be able to get valid insurance.
Mr F continued to make his monthly payments to the end of his agreement with the 
last payment made in September 2019. This meant he made payments from 
February to September 2019 even though he no longer had the motorbike. Black 
Horse waived the final balance payment of £4,767. 
When Mr F entered into the agreement he agreed to be bound by its terms, including 
maintaining the payments. Had his insurance been valid at the time the motorbike 
was stolen it would be reasonable to accept that he would have received a pay-out 
which he could have used to settle his agreement at that time. This would have 
resulted in Black Horse receiving the remaining amounts due under the agreement. 
This didnt happen and while Mr F has said it is due to the mis-sale of the motorbike, 
given the he had de-restricted the motorbike, I find that he had taken action which 
invalidated his insurance. Because of I find it more likely than not that had the 
misrepresentation not occurred and Mr F had been supplied with a motorbike that 
when restricted would comply with his licence, that he would more likely than not 
have still had the motorbike de-restricted and hence invalidated his insurance. 
Because of this I do not find that Black Horse was required to waive the remaining 
payments due on Mr Fs agreement when the motorbike was stolen. 
Black Horse waived the final balance payment of £4,767. I find that this was a 
reasonable response to the issues Mr F had raised and I do not require it to do 
anything further. 
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Black Horse Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman