DRN-2370206
The complaint
Mr D complains that, in 1986, Phoenix Life Limited (trading at the time as Scottish Mutual) 
advised him to transfer pension savings from an occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension.
What happened
As I noted above, Mr D transferred his pension benefits to Scottish Mutual. But Phoenix is 
now responsible for that firm, and hence this complaint. Although all Mr Ds dealings at the 
time were with Scottish Mutual I will, for ease, generally refer to Phoenix as the responsible 
business throughout this decision.
Mr D held deferred pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme provided by an 
employer that he had left in 1985. The branch inspector of a local Phoenix branch at the time 
was a former colleague of Mr D  I will call him Mr R. Mr D says his former colleague 
approached him and advised him to transfer his deferred pension benefits from the 
occupational scheme to a personal pension with Phoenix. Recently Mr Ds pension benefits 
became due and he discovered they were worth less than they would have been had they 
remained in the occupational scheme.
The sales records from the time show a firm I will call SB as having arranged the personal 
pension for Mr D. And Phoenix says that in 1986 it didnt directly sell, or provide advice on, 
personal pensions. So Phoenix thinks SB should be responsible for Mr Ds complaint. But 
neither SB nor Mr D have any recollection of SB being involved in the sale of the policy. 
They think it likely that SB was simply added to the paperwork without having any 
responsibility for the sale.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She hadnt seen any 
evidence to persuade her that Phoenix had provided advice to Mr D about the transfer of his 
pension benefits. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Before reaching my decision on this complaint I have sought further information from SB 
about how it might have been added to the sale paperwork for Mr Ds personal pension. 
I think what both Mr D and SB have told me about them not having any previous contact is 
plausible, and I have no reason to doubt that is the case. But that then does leave me with 
the difficulty that Phoenix says it is likely to have paid commission to SB in respect of the 
sale, and leads me to question why SB didnt raise that anomaly at that time.
SB has explained that at that time it was relatively common practice for product providers 
who arranged pension policies through their in-house staff, or had just lost track of who the 
selling firm was, to allocate the commission to a financial advisor from who they wanted to 
attract future business. SB says that it was regarded as a good source of business by Mr R 
the former colleague of Mr D. But it says that at that time commission payments were not 
identifiable as related to a specific consumer so it couldnt know whether any payments it 
received were made on this basis.
Mr D has not raised a complaint against SB, and so it isnt appropriate for me to go further 
than repeating the explanation SB provided for how it came to receive the commission. And, 
although clearly this would be a matter to be determined should the need arise, it does 
seem, as SB has said, that any complaint against that firm about what happened in 1986 is 
unlikely to be something this Service would be able to consider. SB was not subject to the 
scrutiny of a predecessor ombudsman scheme at that time.
So to decide this complaint I need to determine what happened between Mr D and Phoenix. 
And in particular whether Phoenix provided Mr D with advice, or a recommendation, about 
the transfer of his pension savings.
I dont have any reason to doubt the information that Phoenix has provided, saying that it 
didnt provide any selling activities at that time. Phoenix says it arranged pension policies, 
but any advice was provided by independent financial advisors. But I think it is clear that 
there was some contact between Mr D and Mr R, who was after all employed by Phoenix, 
that led to the transfer of his pension savings.
Mr D has told us that another former colleague also told him about a similar approach to 
move his pension benefits to Phoenix. It does seem that Mr R saw his former colleagues as 
potential sources of new business for his branch. And I have no doubt that it was Mr R that 
made Mr D aware that he might be able to transfer his pension benefits from the 
occupational pension scheme.
But saying all that does leave me some way short of concluding that Phoenix provided 
regulated advice, or a reasoned recommendation, to Mr D in support of the transfer of his 
pension benefits. From the evidence I have seen I think it more likely that Mr Rs role was in 
providing information to his former colleagues about their options. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that he had the information, or resources, necessary to enable him to provide advice 
on the suitability of any transfer.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr D. But I am satisfied that Phoenix 
didnt provide him with advice regarding the transfer of occupational pension benefits to a 
personal pension. Whilst I accept he might have been given information by an employee of 
Phoenix I dont think that means Phoenix should be responsible for the decision Mr D took to 
transfer his pension savings.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman