DRN-2239848
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he took out with Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited in 1991. He has said the increase to the mortgage he arranged 
the policy to protect and repay was for significantly less than the cover the policy provided 
for. He also doesnt believe he needed the life cover associated with the policy and doesnt 
believe other options for repaying his mortgage were discussed.
ReAssure Limited is now responsible for the sale of this policy and I will in the most part 
refer to it throughout. However, as my provisional decision was issued around the time of the 
transfer, it referred to Legal and General, rather than ReAssure, but those references can be 
read as ReAssure. 
What happened
In 1991 Mr B took out a £10,000 mortgage endowment policy with a term of 23 years and 
monthly premium of £16.34. It was invested in a unit-linked managed fund. At the time Mr B 
had an existing mortgage endowment policy for £30,000, which was invested in the with-
profits fund. The existing policy had been taken to support Mr Bs first mortgage in 1988. 
Mr B has told us he was taking out a new mortgage in 1991 for a house purchase of 
£34,000. It has been suggested he paid a 5% deposit on the purchase and so took a 
mortgage in the region of £32,000, so the policy sold to him provided more cover than he 
needed. However, Mr B said to the life company during its investigation he had a mortgage 
on his new property for £34,000, rather than that being the purchase price.
At that time Mr B was 32 years old, single and had no dependents. He was employed full 
time. He said during the initial investigation into his complaint his income was £15,600 a 
year, but revised that to a figure around £9,500 when he referred his complaint to this 
service. Other than a small life assurance policy and his existing endowment, hes told us he 
had no other investments or policies.
ReAssures records show the endowment policy having been surrendered in 2001. However, 
Mr B told us he remembers surrendering the endowment policy when he repaid his 
mortgage, which he recalls being in 1993/94. 
No documentation has been provided which confirms the details of the mortgage.
Mr Bs complaint about not being willing to accept the risks associated with the endowment 
policy and the points referred to this service about the mis-match between the mortgage and 
policy cover and mortgage options available was responded to by ReAssure. It didnt uphold 
the complaint. It considered the policy was most likely suitable for him at the time. In relation 
to the mis-match, it said it couldnt comment further on the issue as there was no evidence 
from the time of the sale about Mr Bs mortgage requirements. As for other options not being 
considered, it was said considering the options for the mortgage was part of the normal 
sales process, but it couldnt prove what was or wasnt considered because it no longer held 
papers for the sale. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response from the life assurance company and referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint referred to this service and that made to 
the life assurance company originally. He concluded the policy was not suitable for Mr B due 
to the risks it represented and recommended ReAssure pay Mr B redress based on a 
comparison of the position he had been in with his endowment mortgage and that which he 
would have been in if hed taken a repayment mortgage instead.
ReAssure didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It pointed out the differences in 
answers Mr B had given to us and it for the same questions. It considered those differences 
meant his recollections of the circumstances at the time of the sale couldnt be relied on. It 
made various comments about the merits of the complaint and I think it is fair to say it didnt 
agree with any of the investigators conclusions. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 September 2020, in which I explained my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
This case is difficult to decide because, as it has been so long since the events being 
complained about there is little contemporaneous evidence and none which gives 
information about Mr Bs needs and circumstances and what was discussed with him. In the 
circumstances, I have to decide the case on what hes been able to tell us about himself, his 
recollections of events and what we know about such policies at the time. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint because he wasnt persuaded the policy was suitable 
for Mr B due to the level of risk it presented. This was based on the fact that managed fund 
endowments were generally considered, at the time, to represent a medium level of risk. At 
the time of the sale, Mr B had only had one previous investment and it represented a lower 
level of risk than the managed fund policy. Whilst some consumers do become willing to 
take a greater level of risk over time, many dont. Given the relatively short time that had 
passed since Mr Bs earlier investment product had been taken, along with his relative 
inexperience, I dont think it likely his attitude toward risk would have increased notably.
So in the event Mr B had arranged a mortgage with an increase of £10,000 to match the 
policy, I would likely find the advice given wasnt suitable. There is evidence that might 
suggest the mortgage increase was £10,000 to match the policy. Legal and General has 
confirmed that the minimum premium allowed at the time was £15. If the mortgage had been 
in the region of £32-34,000 as Mr B has suggested, I can see no reason why he would have 
been sold a policy with a premium of more than the minimum premium as that would have 
provided a policy of significantly more cover than the up to £2-4,000 mortgage increase.
However, if Mr B is correct in his recollection that his mortgage was £34,000 or less, that 
would affect the suitability of the endowment. If the endowment only needed to produce a 
maturity value of £2-4,000, the growth rate needed to do so would have been very low. Such 
a low growth rate being needed would negate some of the risks normally considered to be 
associated with a managed fund policy. So if Mr B is right about the amount of his mortgage, 
I am not persuaded the endowment policy would have represented a higher risk that his 
existing policy. In such circumstances I wouldnt usually uphold a complaint about suitability 
because of the risks a policy represented. 
That said, even if I were persuaded the policy was unsuitable because of the risks 
associated with it, the redress I would award would be a comparison between the costs and 
capital position of the actual endowment mortgage and an equivalent repayment one. In 
order to do this, we would need details of the mortgage; its amount, original term and when it ended. Mr B hasnt been able to provide any documentary evidence about his mortgage and 
his recollections have been inconsistent and so cant be relied on. This means that Legal 
and General wouldnt be able to complete a loss calculation. 
Mr B has also said he didnt need the life cover associated with the endowment as he was 
single with no dependents. Being single with no dependents doesnt automatically mean that 
life assurance associated with a mortgage is unsuitable as a consumer might want to leave 
their property to family members or friends. I also note that Mr B has said he had an existing 
small life assurance policy. That may well indicate even though he didnt have dependents, 
he wanted to leave funds to someone on his death.
In addition, the life cover built into an endowment policy makes it qualifying for tax 
purposes. This means the endowment maturity value will not be subject to tax. It is generally 
considered the tax-free status is sufficiently beneficial to make the cost of life cover 
worthwhile, even if it is not strictly needed because of a consumers circumstances.
Overall, whilst I accept the 1991 policy might not have been suitable for Mr B, I dont 
consider there is enough reliable evidence for me to be able to be satisfied that is more likely 
the case. As such, I am unable to uphold this complaint.
ReAssure didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied it received it.
Mr B didnt accept my conclusions. His representative said that it didnt see any marked 
discrepancies in the information that was provided at different times on the complaint. It 
reiterated its opinion about the risks associated with the policy and what that meant for the 
suitability of the endowment policy for Mr B. It also said that it didnt consider I had 
adequately responded to the point it made about the terms of the two endowment policies 
having different maturity dates and its opinion that the adviser should have ensured all the 
policies would mature when the mortgage ended. 
I provided clarity on the term issue as follows: 
New mortgages and associated repayment vehicles are generally sold with terms of full 
years. As such, if a new mortgage was being arranged and an existing repayment vehicle 
was to be used, if the repayment vehicle maturity date didnt coincide with the mortgage 
redemption date (which is often the case) the new mortgage term would be selected to 
expire after the repayment vehicle maturity date, thereby ensuring the maturity proceeds are 
available when (or before) needed at the end of the mortgage term. 
If a top-up repayment vehicle was then needed, it would be sold with a term to match the 
new mortgage. There is nothing wrong with different repayment vehicles having different 
maturity dates as long as the proceeds should be available to redeem the mortgage at the 
end of its term. No evidence has been provided that shows the term of the top-up policy 
wasnt set in line with the term of the new mortgage. As such, the fact that the two policies 
are due to mature some months apart, doesnt indicate the top-up policy was mis-sold or the 
term was inappropriate.
No further comment or evidence was provided by Mr B or his representative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Whilst I know this will be a disappointment for Mr B, but having carefully thought about all the 
evidence and comments in this case, it remains that I am not satisfied that the evidence in 
this case is sufficient for me to find that the policy was unsuitable for Mr B in 1991.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman