DRN-2725790
The complaint
 Mr B complains about log book loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, (L2G) 
which he says were unaffordable.
 
What happened
 L2G provided Mr B with log book loans. These loans were granted on the basis that Mr B 
provided L2G with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr B didnt make his loan 
repayments, L2G could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
I looked into whether these 4 loans were given to Mr B fairly. The details are as follows:
Loan Date Amount Frequency Instalments instalment 
amountRepayment 
date
1 27.01.2014 £500 Monthly 12 £91.67 21/03/2014
2 21.03.2014 £600 Monthly 12 £110.00 12/06/2014
3 12.06.2014 £650 Monthly 12 £119.17 16/11/2015
4 11.05.2016 £250 Weekly 78 £11.28 26/05/2018
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
L2G has told our service that on each occasion it asked Mr B for his income and 
expenditure along with carrying out a credit check. It also asked Mr B for his wage slips to 
validate the income that he had declared. On each occasion it used this information to 
decide whether to lend to Mr B or not.
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when it agreed loans 1-3?
I can see for loan 1 granted by L2G on 27 January 2014, that L2G asked for Mr Bs income 
and expenditure and noted what Mr B told it on a income and expenditure form. It also 
asked Mr B for his wage slips. It carried out a credit check and this showed it that Mr B had 4 
active county court judgements (CCJs) with the most recent of these being decided upon 
around 5 months before this loan was requested, on 28 August 2013. I can also see that Mr 
B had declared 3 of these CCJs to L2G and in turn it had included the 3 most recent 
judgements within its affordability assessment.
L2G would have seen from its credit check that Mr B had 4 active CCJs rather than the 3 Mr 
B declared to it. When I consider this alongside the fact that Mr B had received his last active 
CCJ only 5 months before he was asking for his first loan with L2G and that the outstanding 
balance for this was relatively quite high at £3036, I think this should have prompted it to 
carry out further checks. I think being presented with this information, it should have looked 
to gain a better understanding of Mr Bs finances, including verifying his expenses, to ensure 
he could sustainably meet his repayments.
Mr Bs circumstances didnt change when he asked for loans 2 and 3 also. He asked for loan 
2 only 2 months after he had taken the first loan. It was essentially a refinancing of loan 1, 
with what L2G called on one of its forms a top up. L2G had gathered the same information, 
with his income verified by wage slips and also his declared expenditure.
The credit search again showed his 4 active CCJs.
Our adjudicator mentioned in their view, at this stage Mr B also had some issues with late 
payments. L2G have told us that it successfully took payment later on in the day, after trying 
again. But on reading the screen notes that have been provided by L2G, I can see that Mr B 
was struggling to meet his repayments on time. Shortly after the loan was agreed, he 
arranged to repay weekly. On his first repayment due date, he had needed to transfer money 
in from another account to meet what he owed and also on another occasion agreed with 
L2G to pay a double payment the following week after his card payment was declined. 
Although I do acknowledge L2Gs comments, I think Mr B was starting to show some signs 
that he was struggling to meet his repayments. So, with this in mind and also for much the 
same reasons as the first loan, I think L2G should have carried out further checks before it 
agreed to give Mr B loan 2 also. In addition, he had refinanced his first loan only 2 months 
after taking it out and was asking to borrow more than loan 1.
Mr B asked for loan 3 on 12 June 2014, around 2 months after he had asked for loan 2. 
Again, this was a refinance and he was given the loan on the same day loan 2 was repaid. 
His circumstances were similar to when he took out his first 2 loans with his declared 
income, expenditure and what was shown on his credit search. There was also 2 attachment 
of earnings showing on his wage slips at this point and so this should have further triggered 
L2G into carrying out further checks and a complete review of Mr Bs finances, along with 
what I have already concluded.
So, I dont think L2G carried out proportionate checks when it agreed to loans 1-3 and I now 
need to consider whether it made a fair lending decision in each application and also what it 
would have seen if it had gained a better understanding of Mr Bs finances.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown L2G when it agreed to 
loans 1-3?
I have reviewed the information L2G had in front of it at the time it agreed to loan 1. Mr B 
had declared his monthly salary to be £1450 and his expenditure as £1275. This includes a 
payment of £100 for what L2G have noted down as County Court Judgements. This left 
£198.33 disposable income according to Mr Bs declared amounts. When I consider that Mr 
Bs repayment amounts were £91.67, I can see that Mr Bs finances would have been tight.
I then need to consider what L2G would have most likely seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks. I have been provided with a credit check report from Mr B along with 
some bank statements. The credit check that Mr B has provided does show that he held an 
unsecured loan with a credit union. He took this loan out in 2011 and didnt repay it until after 
he had loan 3 agreed. It seems his monthly repayment for this loan was £92. If L2G had 
carried out further checks, I think its likely it would have found out about this loan. It would 
have seen that his disposable income left over was at the most
£106.33. Adding loan 1 repayments to his monthly expenditure would have left very little 
disposable income at all.
In addition, Mr B has told our service that at the time of asking for loan 1, he had a gambling 
problem. He has provided our service with bank statements, albeit these are from March to 
May 2015, a period of time several months after these loans were granted. That said, I think his statements do support what he has said. I think after seeing these statements, had L2G 
enquired further into Mr Bs financial affairs, on balance I think its more likely than not it 
would have uncovered more about Mr Bs gambling problems at the time it granted loan 1. 
When I consider what I have seen on Mr Bs credit report along with his bank statements, I 
think further checks by L2G would have shown that he would not have been able to meet his 
repayments over the lifetime of the loan. And so, I find that it was irresponsible to have 
agreed to lend on this occasion. Mr Bs circumstances did not improve for loans 2 and 3 and 
so it follows that I think L2G shouldnt have given these loans either, for the same reasons. 
Mr B declared less disposable income when he applied for loan 2, and most likely would 
have not had enough disposable income to sustainably meet even the first loan repayment. 
Then, by the time he had applied for loan 3, L2G had applied a late repayment fee to his 
account and Mr B was showing clear signs he was having problems managing to repay his 
loan. Attachment of earnings had also appeared on Mr Bs wage slips.
I am currently minded to conclude that L2G should not have given Mr B loans 1-3. It has also 
agreed that it shouldnt have given Mr B loan 4. So, it should now put things right for loans 1- 
4.
 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr B responded and said he agreed with the decision. He has no 
further comments to make. L2G has not responded by the deadline given.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has not made any further points and L2G has not responded. So, as neither party has 
anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my 
provisional decision. With that being the case, L2G now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
  I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for L2G 
to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of being given loans 
1-4. The payments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr B was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file because of loans 1- 4;
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman