DRN-2578345
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt handled their 
claim for damage caused by a fire fairly. They want RSA to pay them about £20,000 to 
reimburse them for items they bought during the claim.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January. As this is a complex case, Ive 
copied my provisional thoughts on this complaint below. 
Id like to expand on the background to this decision. I said our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. She did say that, but she had initially thought RSA 
should pay Mr and Mrs D just over £14,000 plus some interest to make up for having to use 
their own money to buy items for the repairs. She also thought RSA should pay £300 
compensation for the way it had handled the claim and keep them updated every 14 days on 
progress. Finally she said if Mr and Mrs D could show some evidence that theyd borrowed 
money to buy items RSA should have paid for, RSA should refund any costs associated with 
this.
RSA objected to this saying it wasnt normal practice to ask customers to pay for items to be 
used in repairs upfront, nor did it have any evidence that the conversation Mr and Mrs D 
reported had taken place. Our investigator then told Mr and Mrs D that without some 
independent evidence about this conversation she wouldnt be able to ask RSA to pay the 
£14,000 and interest. Mr and Mrs D asked that either RSA be asked to pay the money or 
that it be sent for an ombudsman to review.
Im sorry I didnt include this in my provisional decision as it would have provided a fuller 
history. But it hasnt affected either my provisional or this decision as I considered all the 
information independently of our investigators work.
 This is what I said in my provisional decision::
What happened
Mr and Mrs D suffered a major fire at their home in early 2018. They made a claim to RSA
under their home insurance, and RSA agreed to meet the claim. RSA appointed, amongst
others, a loss adjuster (to scope the extent of the work, and generally manage the repairs)
and a contractor  which Ill call S  to complete the work.
Mr and Mrs D asked S to carry out some additional work that wasnt part of the insurance
claim.
S agreed, and later asked Mr and Mrs D to buy certain items that would be used during both
the insured and private work. It said it would off-set the purchases against the cost of the
private work and refund any excess once all the work was completed. Mr and Mrs D say
they were unsure about this and to set their minds at ease asked the loss adjuster what he
thought. They say, based on his response, they went ahead and paid for just under £21,000
of goods that were to be used in the insured work.
Mr and Mrs D eventually received a refund of about £4,000 from S, but this was far below
what they think they were owed. They say S overcharged them for the private work
compared to both what they discussed verbally and the cost of similar work they were
carrying out on RSAs behalf. They got nowhere with S, and asked RSA to pay them what
they think is the outstanding amount they are due  about £14,000.
RSA wouldnt do this, so Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said
that, without some evidence that the loss adjuster had told them to buy the items  which
RSA says is not their business policy  she couldnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D are very unhappy about this and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is disputed,
contradictory or incomplete  as some of it is here, Ive reached my provisional findings on
the information I do have and what I think most likely happened, given all the circumstances
of the complaint.
Before I go into detail on this complaint, I should point out that Mr and Mrs D have made
other complaints about the way RSA has handled their claim. This provisional decision is
only about whether RSA should refund money Mr and Mrs D paid out for items used in
contracts completed by S. If there are any new complaints Mr and Mrs D might have about
how the remainder of their claim has been handled by RSA, these would need to be looked
at first by RSA, so theyre not included here.
Both parties have sent a substantial amount of information to us. Im not going to comment
on every point made by either party, as I dont think that will help me reach a fair result. But I
have read everything sent in by both Mr and Mrs D and RSA.
The crux of this complaint is that S persuaded Mr and Mrs D to pay out a substantial amount
of money towards the cost of the repairs being carried out on RSAs behalf. The amounts
were to be off-set against the overall cost of a private contract being carried out at the same
time. From now on Ill refer to the work done by S on RSAs behalf as repairs to distinguish
it from the private work.
There are several main issues here, so Ill comment on them separately.
Is RSA responsible for the private contract?
Mr and Mrs D say that RSA  by using S to carry out repairs  influenced their decision to
use the same contractor for the private work, and that it suggested S would do acceptable
work. So they think RSA is responsible for all the work S did, and for the way it behaved over
the cost of the private work. I cant agree with this point. RSA is responsible for the repairs
covered by the insurance policy to be carried out to a reasonable standard. If it appoints a
contractor that doesnt do a good job then it bears the cost of putting things right. But RSA
had no input into the private contract, nor does it have any responsibility for how this might
be priced or carried out. Additionally I cant say whether Mr and Mrs D were treated fairly by
S when it carried out the private contract, as its not within the remit of this service.
Did RSA tell Mr and Mrs D to buy items to be used for repairs?
From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs D discussed with S the private work they wanted doing
alongside the repairs. Before they got anything in writing about the cost of the private work,they then agreed to use their own money to buy items  mainly furniture and fittings  that
would be used in both the private and the insured work.
Mr and Mrs D say they went ahead with this arrangement after checking with the loss
adjuster appointed by RSA that this was an acceptable practise. Ive thought carefully about
what they told me about this conversation. I dont doubt a discussion took place, although of
course I dont know exactly what was said. The comments Mr and Mrs D include sound like
general comments made about building contracts entered into in a private capacity  and of
course Mr and Mrs D were doing that.
The loss adjuster says he doesnt recall the conversation, and RSA says it has no record of
the loss adjuster saying it was acceptable for Mr and Mrs D to pay for items to be used in the
repairs. And it says its not its practise to do that. I have to agree with RSA on this point 
one reason for having an insurer carry out repairs is that Mr and Mrs D dont have to pay up
front for work and then claim the money  in other words the cashflow is managed by RSA. I
accept there may have been some confusion between Mr and Mrs D and the loss adjuster,
but I cant fairly conclude RSA told Mr and Mrs D to pay for items to be used in the repair
work.
Should RSA make any contributions to the costs Mr and Mrs D incurred?
Problems arose when Mr and Mrs D found that the private work carried out by S was more
expensive than theyd been led to believe. They say that they were also asked to pay for
work Mr D did himself or that were part of the insured work. Protracted discussions ensued,
and eventually S sent Mr and Mrs D a refund of about £4,000.
Mr and Mrs D say S should have paid them about £14,000. They want RSA to pay this
amount. From some of the information Mr and Mrs D sent, that appears to include about
£5,000 for repairs either not done, or of a poor quality.
Mr and Mrs D think RSA should reimburse them for insured work they believe S was paid for
(by RSA) but S hasnt carried out. I dont agree with that request. As I said above, RSA is
responsible for ensuring the work carried out on its behalf is of an acceptable standard. I can
see from later discussions between RSA and Mr and Mrs D that it has agreed to pay them
the cost of putting right some of the work done by S, and also carry out some further repairs.
Thats what Id expect it to do. This would account for some of the £5,000 quoted above.
Mr and Mrs D also sent us a list of items they paid for which were part of the repair work
(rather than the private work) they say they havent been reimbursed for. RSA says its paid
for all the items included in the list.
Ive replicated Mr and Mrs Ds list below, and compared it to the items included in the last
spreadsheet of works available to me  which is from April 2019. Some items on Mr and Mrs
Ds list arent on the spreadsheet  and as can be seen from the table, this totals £1,519.93.
RSA has sent us information about the amounts it paid to various contractors  including S.
It seems it paid S the full value of the original repairs contract and some additional amounts
(presumably for additional work identified once the repairs started, which is common). But
the amounts arent broken down, so I cant see exactly which items were paid for. But I think
its more likely than not that that RSA has already met the cost of any items included in the
April spreadsheet, because thats normally what a contractor bases an invoice on. So RSA
need not do any more about this, as its met its obligations to pay for the repairs.
As for the other items, they all appear to be for rooms which were damaged  for example,
the list includes wallpaper for several rooms and also flooring for the kitchen and bathroom.
As Mr and Mrs D provided receipts for these items, Im now asking RSA to provide evidence
that it did pay for these  or provide some substantiated reason why it need not. If it cant dothat Im intending to ask it to pay Mr and Mrs D £1,519.93.
Table replicated from Mr and Mrs Ds evidence: column 4 added by me.
Materials 
purchased by 
customerAmount 
(£)Comments Included in April 19 spreadsheet
Shower in 
bathroom269.99 Receipt sent Yes
Shower in en-suite 200.00 Receipt sent No
Deposit and 
wardrobe balance7,305.00 Receipt sent Yes
Wallpaper bedroom 84.00 Receipt sent No
W/C and Bathroom 
basin and taps403.98 Receipt sent Yes
Playroom wallpaper 128.00 Receipt sent Yes
Bedroom 3 
wallpaper128.00 Receipt sent No
Lounge wallpaper 220.95 Receipt sent Yes
Kitchen units 8,919.65 Receipt sent Yes
Tiles grout 
adhesive for 
bathroom, en-suite, 
WC and kitchen2,178.60 Receipt sent Yes
Paint dining room 45.00 Receipt sent No
Wallpaper Bedroom 
4120.00 Receipt sent No
Wallpaper landing 132.93 Receipt sent No
Vinyl click and 
underlay for kitchen 
and bathroom810.00 Receipt sent No
Owed to customers 20,946.10 Total yes = £19,426.17
Total no = £1,519.93
Conclusions
I currently think that RSA has, in the main, carried out its obligations under the insurance
contract. Thats because its met all the costs presented to it by S and other contractors,
apart possibly for the £1,519.93 explained above. And I understand its since put right  or
compensated Mr and Mrs D for  any substandard repairs.
Im currently intending to ask RSA to pay any outstanding amounts for items Mr and Mrs D
paid for that were used for the repairs.
My provisional decision
Im intending to uphold this complaint and ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr
and Mrs D £1,519.93.
End of provisional decision
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have asked both parties for their thoughts on my provisional decision.
RSA says it will pay Mr and Mrs D the amount I suggested (£1519.93) and interest at 
statutory rates. It says it wants to pay interest from the date Mr and Mrs D sent us the 
receipts rather than from the date they paid for items. I dont think thats fair  the interest is 
to compensate Mr and Mrs D for the fact that they couldnt use this money as theyd spent it 
buying items RSA should have been paying for. Their loss is from the date of purchase  not 
the date they forwarded a receipt.
RSA also forwarded a comment from the loss adjuster, and he is confident he didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs D to buy the disputed items. Mr and Mrs D say he did. With two different 
recollections I cant find in Mr and Mrs Ds favour on this point without some independent 
evidence. Mr and Mrs D said again that they sent an email querying whether it was wise to 
go ahead and buy the items but never got a response. I dont doubt they did this  but I also 
think that, if they were so unsure about paying for items upfront, they might have waited for  
clarification on this in writing before spending their own money. They dont appear to have 
done that.
Mr and Mrs D sent me some more evidence to prove theyd paid for all the items. Theyve 
also explained what some of the recent receipts were for in more depth. They didnt need to 
do that as I never doubted theyd spent this money. But I can only take into account items 
included in the complaint  not anything else.  
Mr and Mrs D say theyre still not sure what evidence I used to decide RSA had most likely 
paid S for the disputed items. I explained this in my provisional decision when I said I 
thought that, as RSA had paid all the invoices S had submitted, it had most likely paid for the 
disputed items where they were shown on the spreadsheet of items used. 
Finally Mr and Mrs D say they are bitterly disappointed that their hopes were raised by our 
investigator initially saying they should be paid the full amount theyd asked for, only to have 
me change that amount substantially. I do understand that, but I can only reach a decision 
based on the evidence Ive seen and what I think most likely happened. 
The sad position here is that Mr and Mrs D seem to have been misled by a contractor who 
cant be contacted so cant be asked to explain its actions. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, I cant hold RSA responsible for that. Mr and Mrs D do of course, have the right to 
consider legal action if they remain dissatisfied, but this decision must be the end of our 
involvement in this particular complaint.
Putting things right
RSA should now pay Mr and Mrs D the £1,519.93 plus interest* at 8% simple per annum 
from the date they paid for items to the date of refund. Mr and Mrs D may have to send RSA 
the relevant receipts if they havent already done so.
*HMRC requires RSA to deduct tax from this interest before paying Mr and Mrs D. It must 
give Mr and Mrs D a certificate of tax deducted if they ask for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require RSA to pay the amounts outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman