DRN-2920731
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the outcome of Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds review of his 
annuity and other related matters. 
What happened
Mr G had his pension savings with Prudential held in four policies. When he came to take his 
benefits his plans were amalgamated, he elected to take the maximum (25%) tax-free cash 
(TFC) and used the balance to purchase an annuity with Prudential. In August 2012 he 
received TFC of just under £57,417 and a monthly income of £874.21. 
In 2019 Mr G was contacted by Prudential as it had been asked by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to review certain non-advised annuity sales from 1 July 2008. Prudential 
carried out a review of Mr Gs annuity and awarded him a one-off lump sum payment of 
£5,699 for his loss, plus they increased his annual income by about £671 going forward.
Mr G believes the redress calculation of 6.4% must be incorrect and doesnt reflect the true 
amount of his loss. Hes unhappy he wasnt awarded an enhanced annuity from the outset, it 
was alarming to be told hed lose his guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) if he shopped around, 
and the recalculation should have been based on the gross amount prior to the deduction of 
the TFC. He was unhappy with how Prudential dealt with his complaint and didnt think 
theyd treated him fairly. 
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Gs substantive complaint about the review or the initial sale of 
his annuity in 2012 and said the redress calculations had been carried out in line with the 
FCAs guidance. As Mr G had elected to take 25% of the fund as tax-free cash the remaining 
75% was the sum available with which to purchase the annuity so the redress calculation 
was based on that figure. Theyd taken into account the health and lifestyle information Mr G 
had supplied, so hed received the amount he was entitled to. But they acknowledged some 
customer service issues and paid him £100 to say sorry.
Mr G complained to this service asking for compensation for the stress the situation had 
caused him from the outset and the poor way he felt Prudential had responded to his 
complaint. Our investigator reviewed everything but didnt think Prudential needed to do 
more. Hed seen nothing to show Prudentials calculations were wrong and he explained we 
couldnt look into complaints about complaint handling. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Im sorry to hear of Mr Gs poor health and the challenges of caring for his wife. Im aware he 
feels strongly hes been badly treated by Prudential, so Ill aim to answer all his points.
As well as his concerns about the review redress calculation, Mr G is unhappy about the 
following:
being told hed lose his GAR if he shopped around;
not being given an enhanced annuity in 2012 despite completing the medical 
questionnaire,
being given the wrong figures undervaluing his annual income by about £2,000;
Poor complaint handling, failing to call him back, and taking him through security 
again when he was transferred to other people;
Loss of GAR
Mr G had four policies with Prudential, three of which came with GARs which provide 
guaranteed benefits regardless of investment performance. GARs were generally much 
higher years ago when Mr Gs policies started, so provide a higher rate of income than 
would now be the case. The GAR would be lost if the pension was transferred or if an 
annuity is purchased from another provider on the open market, as that provider would use 
its own rates and wouldnt be bound by the GAR. So its important for Mr G (or his advisor if 
he used one) to understand that he might lose a valuable benefit if he exercised the open 
market option. So I dont think it was wrong of Prudential to have explained this to Mr G. 
Enhanced annuity in 2012
Mr G thinks his health entitled him to an enhanced or impaired life annuity in 2012. When he 
opted to take his benefits he completed a medical questionnaire disclosing information about 
his health and lifestyle to see if hed be entitled to an enhancement. Because his policies 
came with guarantees, Prudential says it would have compared the annuity income Mr G 
could receive under the guarantees against an enhanced / impaired annuity based on the 
standard non-guaranteed rates, and offered the higher annuity of the two. In other words, the 
enhancement isnt in addition to the GAR so if the uplift due to his health wouldnt give him a 
higher annuity than hed already be entitled to with the guarantees he wouldnt be better off 
with an enhanced annuity. This seems fair to me. 
The calculation error
When Mr G initially took his benefits in August 2012 he accepted a quote and sent the forms 
back, but Prudential then requoted the figures but without taking the GAR into consideration. 
The initial offer was for TFC of £57,416.06 plus annual income of £10,490.52 whereas the 
requoted amount was for slightly higher TFC of £57,779.85 but annual income of only 
£8,556.96, which shows the difference a GAR can make. Mr G brought this to Prudentials 
attention on 14 August which was before the annuity was due to be paid on 20 August, so it 
was corrected before the first payment was due. While I understand it was upsetting, the 
matter was quickly put right. Mr G suffered no financial loss as a result, so Prudential doesnt 
need to do anything else.  
The review redress 
In May 2019 Prudential wrote to Mr G to explain the FCA required it to review his annuity 
sale and asked him for some information about his circumstances in 2012. Although Mr Gs 
advisor had done some research on annuities available from other providers via the OMO, 
and Prudential had sent the advisor some quotes, Mr G approached Prudential himself and 
made the decision about his annuity, rather than arranging it through an advisor. So it was 
considered a non-advised sale. The letter explained they were reviewing certain non-advised annuity sales from 1 July 2008 
to ensure people had been given enough information to make an informed choice. In 
particular, whether theyd been made aware they could shop around on the open market, 
and that certain health and lifestyle conditions may have made them eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. Mr G had been aware in 2012 of the OMO as hed looked into other options with the 
help of an advisor. And he was aware his health and lifestyle conditions may have meant he 
was eligible for an enhanced annuity. Hed completed a questionnaire disclosing information 
about a respiratory condition diagnosis, and his weight, alcohol and smoking habits. But he 
says he was dissuaded from pursuing the OMO due to the loss of guaranteed benefits, so 
he decided to stay with Prudential. 
The review outcome letter dated 20 December 2019 explained how the review was 
conducted by following the FCA guidance. It grouped together the types of health conditions 
which may give rise to an enhancement due to their likely impact on life expectancy. It 
explained that only one specific medical condition in each group is considered, and where 
more than one condition is disclosed, the one providing the highest uplift is used. The review 
had taken into consideration Mr Gs diagnosis of COPD which is one of the conditions in the 
respiratory group, plus his height and weight (used to calculate body mass index) and his 
smoker status. Mr G also disclosed other medical conditions such as asthma and that he 
may have been exposed to asbestos through his work, but these are also in the respiratory 
group so wouldnt result in a further uplift. The letter set out the compensation calculation in 
table format showing the back payment for the annuity income from 2012, plus interest, net 
of basic rate tax, giving a total of £5,543.40. And another table showed the increased annual 
annuity income Mr G would receive going forward of £11,161.54, an uplift of 6.4%. 
Mr G is aware of the FCA report into Prudentials annuity sales practices. As well as 
imposing a fine, the FCA provided the methodology for Prudential to carry out its redress 
calculations, and they took a close interest in the review requiring it to be overseen by 
properly qualified people. Ive seen no evidence to show Mr Gs redress calculation might be 
wrong, so I wont ask for it to be redone. The FCA only required Prudential to review their 
calculation and pay redress if this identified a loss, they arent required to add additional 
payments for distress and inconvenience, or for not offering an enhanced annuity at the 
outset as Mr G would like. Mr G said he didnt want to accept Prudentials redress, hoping to 
negotiate a better offer. But the offer wasnt open to negotiation as Prudential was required 
to follow the redress methodology as set out by the FCA and not enter into individual 
negotiations with annuitants. 
Im not sure why Mr G thinks the review should have been carried out on the whole of his 
pension pot rather than the net amount after the 25% TFC was released. It doesnt appear to 
be in dispute that Mr G received the tax-free lump sum in 2012, and the review wouldnt 
have affected the value of his pension savings, only the annuity he purchased with the 
balance. So Im satisfied Prudential was correct to carry out the redress based on the net 
figure. 
Complaint handling and customer service 
Mr G has been in extensive correspondence with Prudential about is annuity including 
several phone calls which I understand he finds difficult due to a hearing impairment. I 
appreciate it can be frustrating dealing with a large organisation and having to explain 
something to different people. But as our investigator explained we cant look into complaints 
about the way a business dealt with a complaint. I understand Prudential paid Mr G £100 in 
January 2020 for the customer service issues, which I think is fair.  Overall, while I understand Mr G remains unhappy and Im sorry to hear how upsetting and 
stressful hes found all this, Ive seen nothing to make me think Prudential hasnt conducted 
the review of his annuity correctly so Im not going to ask it to do anything else. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman