DRN-2203736
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited treated him when he 
took a vehicle from it under a hire agreement. In particular, he complains that BNP hasnt 
accepted his proposals for dealing with arrears due under the agreement.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr B took a van from BNP under a hire agreement which was to run for at least 
60 months. He intended to use the van for his business. 
Quite shortly afterwards, however, Mr B experienced problems with the van. He complained 
to BNP and the vehicle was repaired. Mr B also referred the issue of the quality of the 
vehicle to this service, and a final decision was issued in November 2019. 
Because of the problems with the van, Mr B stopped making payments from October 2018. 
In December 2018 BNP sent Mr B notice that it was ending the agreement because 
payments hadnt been made. In February 2020 it repossessed the van and added a charge 
of nearly £750 for doing so. 
Mr B complained that BNP had acted unreasonably in its discussions with him about a 
repayment plan, hadnt told him that it was intending to repossess the van, had charged him 
for recovering the vehicle and had caused him to lose perishable stock that was in the van at 
the time it was repossessed. He also asked why BNP hadnt repossessed the van sooner, 
since it had ended the agreement in December 2018. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered his 
complaint. She concluded however that BNP had treated Mr B fairly and so didnt 
recommend that it do anything differently. Mr B didnt accept her findings and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr B didnt make hire payments after October 2018  that is, for some 16 months  
arrears built up. Mr B did however continue to use the van in that time. He offered to clear 
the arrears by paying a little extra each month until the end of the agreement and then by 
paying a sum close to the contractual monthly payment. BNP was however unwilling to 
accept that offer. It was concerned that it might not be affordable and said it wanted the 
arrears to be cleared in full during the original hire period.
As the investigator has explained, customers who are in financial difficulty should be treated 
fairly and with forbearance. That doesnt mean however that a credit provider should accept 
any repayment offer thats made, and in my view it was reasonable in all the circumstances 
for BNP to decline the plan that Mr B put forward. 
It wasnt until some time after BNP ended the agreement that it took steps to repossess the 
van. In that time, however, this service was dealing with the first complaint, and for part of 
that time Mr B was in discussions about the arrears. I dont believe it was unreasonable for 
BNP to have taken the decision to wait before repossessing the van.
Mr B says too that BNP should have told him that it was planning to repossess the van. It 
had however sent several letters about the arrears and the possible consequences of not 
making payments. In the circumstances, I dont believe BNP acted unreasonably. Mr B 
complains too that there were perishable goods in the vehicle when it was repossessed. 
Thats unfortunate, but it seems Mr B wasnt at the property when the collection agents 
attended. They say they waited for an hour, and I dont believe it would have been fair, for 
example, to expect BNP to postpone the repossession further. 
The hire agreement included a provision requiring Mr B to reimburse BNP for costs, 
including third party collection costs. It wasnt in my view unreasonable to use a low loader to 
collect the vehicle, and I dont believe either that the costs of repossession were 
unreasonable. 
Overall, therefore, I dont believe that BNP has treated Mr B unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman