DRN-1711460
Complaint
Mr T says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD 
have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr T bought the policy in 1997 over the phone, some time after he took out a store card. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the insurance involved has long since closed. 
So understandably, neither side still have the original records from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection rules, AXA were required to dispose of Mr Ts data rather than hold onto it for 
too long. Mr T doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable given 
that memories fade, buying insurance is not often memorable, and this sale was particularly 
long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the 
limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled Mr T into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what AXA did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. Mr T had already been approved for his 
store card before being sold PPI, which wouldve indicated to him that he didnt have to take 
a policy to get his card. And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect AXA to 
be able to produce a record of the call to defend themselves now. So I dont think I have a 
fair basis on which to conclude that AXA misled Mr T here. I think its more likely that they 
followed a relatively normal sales process, offered him a choice about buying PPI, and he 
chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand if he no longer recalls doing 
so after so many years.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr T enough information to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mr T about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like Mr T was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover. 
And it meant he wouldnt have to ask his friends or family to pay his store card  and even if 
they were happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be unable to when needed. So 
the policy could have been useful for Mr T in case something went wrong. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr T could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Lastly, I understand why Mr T has pointed out that hes had a refund for other PPI policies. 
But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were 
sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even if one particular policy 
was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, too. I have not found any 
reason to say that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman