DRN-3003644
The complaint
 Mr M is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a storm damage claim 
he made under his commercial insurance policy. Any references to Ageas include its agents. 
What happened
In September 2020, a property Mr M owned and rented out was damaged. Mr M made a 
claim to Ageas for storm damage. He was asked to get two quotes, a report outlining the 
damage and to supply photographs for the claim to be considered. 
On 13 October, Mr M said he had obtained the information asked for and was looking for an 
update. Mr M tried to speak to a manager to understand how his claim was progressing. He 
was promised a call back on a number of occasions, but these didnt take place. It transpired 
Ageas had recorded Mr Ms phone number incorrectly on its file - which it later corrected. In 
response to Mr Ms first complaint, Ageas paid him £50.
Mr M remained unhappy with the time taken to settle the claim. He understood the roof 
repairs had been approved so Mr M instructed his contractors to repair the internal damage. 
However, Ageas later said it required photographs of the internal damage so this could be 
validated. Mr M asked on several occasions to speak to someone, as he thought hed 
provided the information asked for, but didnt receive a call back. In January 2021, Mr M 
received authorisation for the internal works and Ageas paid a cash settlement. 
Unhappy with the overall handling of the claim, Mr M made another complaint. He said hed 
had to take significant steps to both minimise the damage to the interior of the property for 
his tenants. Mr M said hed constantly had to chase Ageas for updates on the claim. Ageas 
acknowledged Mr M had to wait longer than he should have for calls back. It subsequently 
made another offer of compensation of £75. Mr M didnt think this was sufficient and referred 
the matter to us.
Our investigator recommended that Ageas increase the compensation payment by a further 
£100. Ageas accepted this but Mr M didnt and said he was looking for £500 compensation. 
As a result this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, Ageas accepts Mr M didnt receive the level of service he should have 
and settling his claim took longer than it should have. And, as theres no dispute about how 
the claim was settled, my decision here focuses on the impact the handling of the claim had 
on Mr M.
Mr M was concerned about his tenants well-being. Whilst he seems to recognise the 
external works were completed in a reasonable timeframe, he was concerned about the 
potential for internal electrical damage. I note theres no evidence of this. However, its clear 
Mr M was promised a number of call backs, which didnt happen, leading Mr M to having to 
make frequent calls to find out what was happening. 
Mr M says as a result of the time taken for the repairs to be completed, his relationship with 
his tenants broke down. Mr M says that they werent able to access two rooms upstairs and 
subsequently paid less in rent. Mr M hasnt provided this service with any evidence of this or 
of any financial loss in this respect. Like our investigator, Im not intending to make any 
award in respect of this. Its for Mr M to decide if he wants to present any evidence he may 
have to Ageas and then it would be for Ageas to consider this under the policy terms.
However, I accept Mr M has been inconvenienced by this matter. There were delays in 
arranging the cash settlement for the internal works, and Ageas is responsible for some of 
these delays. Im satisfied that the further compensation payment of £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr M a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman