DRN-1398978
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim under her property owners 
insurance policy.
What happened
When Mrs P was selling a property with a sitting tenant, she found out that the tenant was a 
convicted criminal. She said the tenant then left the property owing two months rent. She 
instructed her solicitor to regain possession of the property.
Mrs P made a claim to Ageas for the cost of changing the locks, unpaid rent, her solicitors 
costs and for a rug which she said the tenant had stolen.
Ageas said Mrs Ps legal expenses cover didnt cover claims relating to the tenancy and she 
wasnt covered for the theft.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
the claim was covered by the terms of her policy. 
As Mrs P didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P thinks Ageas should cover her expenses in gaining repossession of the property since 
she has legal expenses cover. Unfortunately for Mrs P her legal expenses cover excludes 
claims relating to a tenancy. So I dont find the decision by Ageas to decline her expenses 
for changing the locks, unpaid rent and solicitors costs was unreasonable.
Ive looked to see whether theres any other cover available to Mrs P for recovery of rent 
arrears. But that would only have been covered under an extension to the policy that Mrs P 
didnt choose to take out. If Mrs P wants to make a complaint about the cover she was sold, 
she needs to complain to the party that sold it to her.
Lastly Ive looked at the cover for theft. The policy doesnt cover a theft that does not involve 
entry to or exit from a building by forcible and violent means or that does not involve actual 
or threatened assault or violence, or use of force against you or any person lawfully on the 
premises. Mrs P says that the rug was stolen by the tenant. That means no forcible and 
violent means were probably needed to enter or leave the property. So I dont think Mrs P 
has shown that the theft is covered under the policy terms.
Its up to Ageas how it writes its policy wording subject to the relevant rules and regulations. I 
havent seen any evidence that the policy doesnt meet those requirements. So Im not 
persuaded that Ageas has treated Mrs P unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman