DRN-2959475
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited handled his 
claim under his pet policy.
What happened
On 25 February 2021, Mr Ss cat became unwell. As his vet was closed for the day Mr S was 
directed to the emergency vet service, where his cat stayed overnight, returning to his own 
vets the next day. Sadly, his cat died the following week. 
Mr S claimed for all the vet costs from Red Sands, this included a claim form completed by 
his own vet plus their costs, along with costs from the emergency vet. Red Sands paid the 
costs for his own vet but not the emergency vet. Red Sands said it needed a claim form from 
the emergency vet practice. Mr S didnt agree the policy wording told him he had to get 
another claim form completed by the emergency vets. But Red Sands said it needed this to 
assess the emergency vet costs. 
So, Mr S brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had done 
anything wrong in asking Mr S to get more information from the emergency vet. Mr S 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, Im very sorry this complaint arose from the death of Mr Ss cat. However, my role is to 
assess if Red Sands did anything wrong having regard to the terms and conditions of the 
policy, and I dont think it did.
The relevant policy condition is the following:
If requested by AFI, the vet attending your pet or the usual or previous vet must, at 
your expense, provide AFI with all the information about your pet, including its full 
medical history, its treatment and any other information AFI may require. 
Here the clause is clearly saying that if AFI (as in Red Sands) asks for any or indeed further 
information, its for the policyholder Mr S to provide. Thats a reasonable term in my view and 
its usually included across almost all pet policies as well. There is nothing unusual or 
significant about it. Its not overly onerous either as it concerns provision of information in 
order to assess a claim. Its not for Mr S to decide whats needed to assess claim, its for the 
insurer to do so. And here I consider this term in the policy is reasonable and Red Sands 
decision to await the information it has asked for to also be reasonable. It remains that Red 
Sands will consider the rest of Mr Ss claim once he provides the information it requires from 
the emergency vet.
At the time Mr Ss usual vet wasnt attending to his cat as that vet practice was closed, so it 
was the emergency vet attending to the cat instead. Obviously, the usual vet wouldnt have 
all the details from the emergency fee either, not especially as to the costs involved, as Mr 
Ss usual vet wouldnt have access to those systems. And clearly there are two separate 
entities asking Mr S and therefore Red Sands for payment. On that basis alone I think its 
perfectly reasonable for Red Sands to ask Mr S to get the emergency vet to provide the 
details of their care of his cat. 
Mr S mentions he would have to travel over 30 miles to attend to this. However, Im sure it 
could all be done over the phone and via email and/or post. Its a fairly simple matter for the 
vets to do, as they do it routinely for any pet which is insured.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman