DRN-2248758
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company (AXA) settled a       
third-party claim against her motor insurance policy without fully investigating it. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs H was involved in a car accident with a third-party vehicle. She reported 
the accident to AXA. Mrs H accepted that she was at fault for the accident but didnt claim 
against her policy for damage to her own car.  
AXA settled a claim made by the third partys legal representatives for damage to the 
third-party car, personal injuries, loss of earnings and other expenses. 
Mrs H was unhappy with AXAs decision as she felt that the claim hadnt been properly 
investigated. AXA didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. They said that theyd reviewed medical 
evidence and supporting documentation before settling the claim. Mrs H referred her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered all of the evidence and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, 
he found that AXA had fairly considered the claim before choosing to settle it based on the 
evidence. Mrs H didnt accept his findings. The complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here and I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. 
When coming to my decision the key things I need to decide are whether AXA has:
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy; and 
dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably.
The policys terms and conditions allow AXA to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit  as 
has happened here and I think thats fair. 
Mrs H disputes the amount paid to the third-party to settle the claim. She says the damage 
to the third-partys car didnt correspond with the damage to her car and the third-party 
exaggerated a personal injury. 
The damage to the third-party vehicle
Mrs H feels that AXA shouldve had her car inspected for damage as she considered the 
accident to be minimum impact. Ive seen the photos that Mrs H provided of the damage to 
her car and kept in mind that AXA had accepted what shed said about being at fault for the 
accident. The engineers report highlighted damage and the necessary repairs to the third-
party car thats consistent with the area of Mrs Hs car that also suffered damage.
I cant fairly say that AXA acted unreasonably here when relying on the report and Im 
satisfied that AXA properly considered it before settling this part of the claim.
The third-party personal injury claim
The third party provided significant medical information to support their personal injury claim.
AXA considered all the evidence, made some enquiries and came to a settlement amount 
for this part of the claim. I dont consider it was necessary to get a second report or opinion. 
So again, I think that AXA considered the third party claim fairly and reasonably  based on 
all the evidence before deciding to settle it. 
Mrs H has referenced social media posts as evidence that the third-party personal injury 
claim was exaggerated. Ive seen nothing to support this point of view and have noted that 
AXA raised no such concerns about the claim. 
Summary 
I understand Mrs H feels strongly about all of these matters and feels that AXA have let her 
down here and that her policy and claims history will be affected. But based on the available 
evidence Ive concluded that AXA has followed the policy terms and exercised its discretion 
fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the claim as it has done here. So I wont be 
asking AXA to do anything to put things right in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman