DRN-2170230
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit (FCE).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mrs B. The car 
here was brand new so I would not expect there to be any faults with it when supplied.
Mrs B has experienced several problems with the car. Its not disputed that there have been 
some repairs, as follows:
a faulty parcel shelf first reported in May 2018;
a window dropping that the business repaired in May 2019;
a problem with the system that controls Bluetooth radio and satellite navigation that 
was resolved by an upgrade in about July 2020.
Ive also noted that Mrs B was locked out of her car in 2020 and, when she managed to gain 
access, the car would not start, and she needed a recovery service to help.
The relevant legislation would suggest that as these issues happened more than six months 
after Mrs B took receipt of the car, the onus is on her to demonstrate they were present 
when the car was supplied to her.
Im dont think enough evidence has been supplied to demonstrate that was the case. I think 
its reasonable to suggest that electrical faults can happen at any time. So, Im persuaded, in 
the absence of other proof, that its likely the window dropping, and the unlocking problem, 
have developed more recently. As such, I dont think it would be fair to hold FCE 
responsible.
The job sheets suggest the parcel shelf was first repaired in June 2018, about eight months 
after Mrs B took receipt of the car. A clip was replaced, but I can see that two further repairs 
to different areas of the shelf have been necessary since. It would be difficult to establish 
that these problems were present when the car was supplied but I can see the business 
have been prepared to fix them. I think their actions here have been fair.
Ive not seen evidence that the Bluetooth radio and satellite navigation issue, which appears 
to be linked to the cars SYNC3 system, was present when the car was supplied. But I think 
its fair to suggest it probably was as an update appears to have fixed the problem. Relevant 
legislation provides one opportunity for FCE to resolve a problem present at the point of 
supply, so I think they were entitled to repair the car.
But they should compensate Mrs B for the inconvenience shes experienced. FCE have paid 
her £350 in respect of this and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. I think that 
compensates her for the intermittent loss of use of the system and the inconvenience shes 
experienced. So, whilst I understand Mrs Bs frustration Im afraid I dont think it would be fair 
to ask FCE to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman