DRN-3619192
The complaint
Mr L complains about the settlement offered by Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
following a claim on his car insurance. 
What happened
Mr L had car insurance with Acromas. He had an accident which resulted in his car being 
written off. Acromas accepted his claim and offered a settlement based on a valuation of 
£5,000. Mr L disputed this as he said it was a rare model and Acromas increased the 
valuation to £6,500. However Mr L said it should be around £11,500 as that was the price of 
a similar vehicle he had bought at a similar time. He made a complaint but Acromas didnt 
change its position, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
the trade guides Acromas had used didnt take into account the fact the car was a rare 
model, so thought it should also consider adverts for similar cars and the receipt Mr L 
provided for the other car he purchased that was also similar. As she said these were more 
likely to represent a true valuation. Based on these she recommended Acromas increase the 
valuation to £9,400 and pay Mr L £100 compensation to make up for providing an incorrect 
valuation. 
Mr L accepted our investigators outcome, however Acromas didnt. So it has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators recommended outcome. Ill explain why:
While this service considers trade guides to provide an accurate valuation for most 
vehicles, they dont take into account all features of a vehicle  including those that are 
rare models with low production rates.
In this case Mr L has done enough to evidence that his car is more valuable than a 
standard version of the same make, due to the fact only a few hundred were made and 
sold. 
Mr L has provided both adverts for similar vehicles and a receipt for a similar car he 
bought himself. Each of these are for vehicles that are of the same make and model, 
however they differ in some way from the car he is claiming for   due to mileage, age or 
quality.  So I dont agree it would be fair to base a valuation on an individual advert as 
these differences impact the value. 
However I think hes done enough to show that the valuation offered by Acromas isnt a 
fair and reasonable one. As the policy states it will provide a settlement based on the 
market value of the car, and hes shown that this is much higher than the £6,500 offered.
For these reasons I think the fairest way to settle the claim is to take an average of the 
adverts that are the closest match to Mr Ls vehicle and the receipt provided of the other 
car he purchased at around the same time. As these seem to best match the age, 
mileage and standard of the vehicle. An average of these three is £9,400, so I agree this 
is a fair valuation for Mr Ls car. And therefore direct Acromas to settle the claim based 
on this valuation. 
Further, Acromas has delayed the settlement of this claim by offering a low valuation, 
which has caused Mr L some distress and inconvenience. So I agree it should pay him 
£100 compensation to make up for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and require Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Settle Mr Ls claim based on a valuation of £9,400.
Pay Mr L £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman