DRN-3792189
The complaint
Mr M complains that Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi are holding him liable for 
a loan agreement he entered into. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr M signed up for an educational programme for his children through a provider 
I will call E. He says E came to his home and asked his children to complete initial tests to 
gauge their academic abilities. Based on the results of these tests, he says E told him that 
his children were behind academically and would benefit from the educational programme. 
Mr M agreed to sign up to the programme. 
He paid a deposit of £60 and the remaining £4,736 was to be repaid using a fixed sum loan 
agreement from Duologi. The loan was to be repaid over 60 months interest free. 
In January 2022, Duologi wrote to Mr M to say that it had discovered that the credit 
agreement Mr M had signed didnt contain certain wording that should have been included. It 
said that some correspondence it may have sent out to customers also didnt contain the 
correct wording and it found it didnt take appropriate steps when assessing affordability of 
the agreement. 
Mr M complained to Duologi soon after receiving this letter. He said that he had been 
pressured into taking out the loan and the programme by E. He said the initial assessment it 
asked his children to complete wasnt set to any specific criteria and was designed to make it 
look like his children were underperforming academically when that wasnt the case.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr Ms children 
had been using the programme regularly for over two years before Mr M raised any 
complaint. Hed seen that Mr M had contacted E several times previously but had never said 
he was unhappy with the programme or the way it had been sold. He said that if Mr M had 
felt pressured to take out the programme and loan, he would have expected Mr M to have 
complained much sooner. Further, he said that hed not been provided with any persuasive 
evidence to demonstrate the initial tests that were completed were inadequate or misleading. 
Duologi accepted that outcome, but Mr M didnt. In summary, he said E should have to 
provide evidence of the assessments they carried out and demonstrate that these were 
reasonable. E had an agenda to sell the programme and course, so it manipulated the 
assessment to induce him into signing up. This practice was misleading and it is wrong to 
influence a consumer in that manner. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M clearly feels very strongly about the way E sold the programme and loan to him. I must 
stress however, that this decision is solely focused on whether Duologi  not E  has treated 
him fairly.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act has the effect of holding Duologi responsible for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by E, providing certain conditions are met. For 
completeness, Im satisfied those conditions are satisfied here. 
Section 56 of the same Act has the effect of holding Duologi responsible for the antecedent 
negotiations between E and Mr M. This means anything said or promised by E in relation to 
the sale of the programme financed by the loan agreement is to be treated as if it was said 
on behalf of Duologi.  
Mr M says that he was induced into signing up to the programme and the loan by E. He says 
E gave his children an initial assessment to test their academic ability and based on the 
results of those tests it was concluded that they would benefit from the extra support offered 
by the programme. 
Other than what Mr M has told us about his recollection of the sale and the tests, I havent 
seen anything to indicate that the initial assessments were inappropriate or inadequate for 
their intended purpose. 
I note the programme was used extensively by Mr Ms children from late 2019 when he 
signed up to it, right up to when he made his complaint and at least two weeks beyond that 
date. Ive seen that Mr M contacted E several times before raising his complaint with 
Duologi. This correspondence didnt include any expression of dissatisfaction with the 
programme or how it was sold. If Mr M had felt pressured to take it out, or that the 
programme was unnecessary or not needed, I would have expected him to have raised 
those concerns soon after the sale took place, not over two years later. 
While its disappointing Duologi has been unable to provide copies of the initial assessments 
that were carried out, I have nevertheless seen no reason to be persuaded that the course 
was misrepresented to Mr M or that there was a breach of contract by E which Duologi 
would be jointly liable for.
I say this because Mr Ms actions following the sale dont support what he now says about 
being pressured or misled. I note his children continued to use the programme at least for a 
short while after he made his complaint. But if he had felt the programme was unnecessary 
and not adding any value, I fail to see why it had been used so extensively for such a long 
period of time and even for a short period after he first raised his complaint. 
I accept it is possible Mr M was misled, however, Ive not been presented with any 
persuasive evidence to demonstrate that was what most likely happened here or that 
Duologi could be held responsible. I therefore dont think Duologi has acted unfairly in 
continuing to seek repayment from Mr M for the outstanding balance of the loan agreement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Tero HiltunenOmbudsman