DRN-3311614
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) avoided his home 
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim. 
Mr H is being represented in this complaint. But for ease, I have referred to all actions and 
responses as those from Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds online. When a storm caused damage to 
his property, he tried to make a claim to repair an outbuilding. 
Lloyds said hed incorrectly answered the questions it asked about how he was using his 
property (they said part of the property was being used for business purposes) and the 
condition it was in (they said it was highly likely the outbuilding roof had been in a severe 
state of neglect). And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because of this and 
keep the premium hed already paid.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or 
reckless and that Lloyds were entitled to avoid his policy and retain the premium hed paid.
Mr H doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said that the property wasnt being used for business purposes. And that there 
wasnt anything wrong with the structure of the outbuilding in question. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Lloyds thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his online application that the property was not being used for any business 
purposes. They also state he misrepresented when confirming during the online application 
that the home including any outbuildings, were in a good state of repair.  
Ive looked at the questions that Lloyds asked and how Mr H answered them. The first 
question that Lloyds feel Mr H misrepresented on during the online application asked, Is any 
part of the home used for any business purposes?. Mr H answered no.
I dont think Mr H took reasonable care when answering this. I say that because I think the 
question asked was clear and based on the evidence provided, I think it is most likely that   
Mr H was using part of his home for business purposes. Several vehicles have been stored 
at the property, including in the outbuilding being claimed for. Whilst Mr H has said that 
these are personal vehicles, he has acknowledged that some have gone on to be transferred 
to a family motor sales business. 
The second question that Lloyds feel Mr H misrepresented on during the online application 
asked, Is the home, including any outbuildings, in a good state of repair?. Mr H answered 
yes to this question.
I also dont think Mr H took reasonable care when answering this. I say that because I also 
think this question was fair and based on the photos of the condition of the outbuilding, the 
report from the loss assessor and the claims consultant, show significant repair was needed 
to at least the walls and the roof.
Lloyds has provided evidence as an explanation from the underwriter, that if vehicles held at 
the property were business stock, and Mr H had answered that question accordingly, they 
wouldnt have approved the policy due to the increased risk. The underwriter has also said 
that if Mr H had said that the outbuilding had been in a poor state of repair, it would have 
been excluded from the policy. This means Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one.
Lloyds has said Mr Hs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because he would have 
reasonably known the information he provided was untrue or misleading, and he would have 
also known that the matter to which the misrepresentation related, was relevant to the 
insurer. I agree with Lloyds because I think Mr H should have known that the property was 
being used for business purposes and that the outbuilding was not in a good state of repair. 
As Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Lloyds can take in accordance with CIDRA. Therefore, Im satisfied 
Lloyds was entitled to avoid Mr Hs policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means 
that  in effect  his policy never existed, Lloyds does not have to deal with his claim 
following the storm. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think allowing Lloyds to rely on it to avoid Mr Hs policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.In light of all this, I think that Lloyds has fairly concluded that Mr H didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation and that it was deliberate or reckless. As such I think 
that Lloyds has taken the action they are entitled to under CIDRA. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman