DRN-3551968
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs W complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) applied a flood exclusion to 
their policy and refused to pay a claim for flood damage.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to all parties so Ill only summarise them 
here.
Mr H and Mrs W took out an Executive Home policy with Covea through an 
insurance broker (A) in May 2019. It was subsequently renewed in May 2020 and 
May 2021.
Mr H and Mrs W submitted a claim under the buildings section of their policy in July 
2021 for flood damage.
Covea appointed a loss adjuster to assess the claim.
The loss adjuster identified the insured property had suffered from previous flood 
damage. 
Covea said Mr H and Mrs W hadnt updated it about the previous flooding when the 
policy was renewed. 
Covea considered not disclosing the previous flooding to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, (Ill explain more about this in My Findings) which entitled it to 
remove cover for flood damage from renewal in May 2021 and decline to pay Mr H 
and Mrs Ws claim.
A (on behalf of Mr H and Mrs W) rejected the decision to decline the claim. It 
provided a number of documents which included a statement from Mr H and Mrs W 
headed Drainage problems. This document gave details of previous issues which 
had affected the main road and Mr H and Mrs Ws property. These include:
- October 2019: Drainage pond full and not functioning correctly
- December 2019 to February 2020: During heavy rain road was underwater, 
excess running down the insureds drive washing away shingle and waterlogging 
the garden. 
-  November 2020: A further incident of water running down the drive
- July 2021: Heavy rain caused the road to be under water; Mr H and Mrs Ws drive 
to again be compromised and their house to be flooded
Covea responded to say the details in the drainage problems document confirmed 
Mr H and Mrs W were aware of a potential flood risk and this shouldve been 
disclosed. It reiterated the decision to decline the claim.
In their final answer to Mr H and Mrs Ws complaint, Covea confirmed the decision to 
decline the claim was correct as an appropriate remedy under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)
 Mr H and Mrs W brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought it 
shouldnt be upheld. Our investigators view was that there had been a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation and Coveas actions were reasonable and in line with 
the actions permitted under CIDRA. 
Mr H and Mrs W dont agree with the investigator and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators view and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation as 
described by CIDRA. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made 
the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
At renewal, Covea had sent a statement of fact issued April 2021 effective May 2021 which 
said:
This statement of fact has been prepared to record the information provided by you in 
response to the questions we have asked you.
The property
- has never been damaged by flood or flood as a result of a storm
- is not located within a potential flood risk area
You have a duty to answer all of these questions honestly and, having taken reasonable 
care, to the best of your knowledge. Please therefore carefully check the information 
contained in their Statement of Fact to ensure that it is an accurate and complete record 
of what you have told us.
During the term of their policy, you must also give immediate notice to us of any material 
changes in these facts. Please refer to the 'General Conditions' in your policy wording 
for further guidance of changes in risk.
We reserve the right to decline cover or to change the premium and terms of this policy 
if you change the information contained in the Statement of Fact.
Covea thinks Mr H and Mrs W failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they didnt correct the statement of fact at renewal. Ive looked at these statements and considered what Mr H and Mrs W knew when they were 
asked to confirm the accuracy of the information Covea held. Having done so, I find Mr H 
and Mrs W didnt take reasonable care in the answers they gave. I say this because they 
had information, including shingle being washed off the drive and the garden being 
waterlogged prior to the May 2021 renewal, which shouldve been shared with Covea. 
I appreciate Mr H and Mrs W feel they had been proactive in putting pressure on the local 
highways authority to tackle the issues causing the water problems to their property. And 
having received assurances that this was happening they didnt believe their home to be at 
risk of flood. But find it reasonable for these issues, which were known to Mr H and Mrs W, 
to have been disclosed to Covea.
Given that decision, I now move on to what Covea wouldve done if theyd had full and 
correct information. 
Covea has provided evidence to show that if theyd been made aware of a potential flood 
risk, they wouldnt have been able to offer insurance without passing the flood risk to a 
specialist scheme. In this case the flood risk wouldve been passed to a specialist insurer. 
This reinsurance of the flood risk wouldve resulted in a higher premium being charged. 
CIDRA says that if an insurer wouldve only entered into the insurance contract on different 
terms had it been aware of the correct information, its a qualifying misrepresentation.
So Im satisfied Mr H and Mrs Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
CIDRA has three types of qualifying misrepresentations. Deliberate, reckless or careless. If a 
misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless, then it must be categorised as careless  
there is no other option available. Covea has said Mr H and Mrs Ws misrepresentation was 
careless. Im satisfied that Mr H and Mrs Ws misrepresentation wasnt reckless or deliberate 
and so I agree with Coveas classification as a careless misrepresentation.
As Im satisfied with Coveas classification as a careless qualifying misrepresentation, Ive 
looked at the actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA.
As Ive already said, Im satisfied Covea couldve still insured Mr H and Mrs W albeit with a 
higher premium being charged and different terms being applied (in this case the 
reinsurance). CIDRA says that the insurer can retrospectively apply the new terms and 
consider the claim subject to the amended terms. And that is what Covea has done.
Had Covea known about the flood risk, it wouldve excluded cover for flood under Mr H and 
Mrs Ws policy and passed on the flood risk to a specialist insurer. But, Covea are not able 
to pass on the flood risk retrospectively. That means that at the time of Mr H and Mrs Ws 
claim the flood risk wouldnt have been covered under their policy and for that reason, I find 
it reasonable for Covea to decline the claim.
I appreciate the depth of feeling both Mr H and Mrs W have over this matter. But, based on 
what Ive said above, Im satisfied in the circumstances of this case Covea have applied the 
correct remedy under CIDRA and therefore Im not asking Covea to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr H and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman