DRN-3159699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) withdrew 
their offer of a hire purchase agreement that Mr and Mrs M intended to take out.
What happened
On 12 February 2020, Mr and Mrs W applied for a hire purchase agreement with VM, to fund 
the purchase of a new car. Mr and Mrs W agreed to pay a deposit of £12,000, and the 
agreement was for £97,220 over 48 months; with an initial payment of £1,457.47, 46 monthly 
payments of £1,357.47, and a final payment of £46,137.47. VM approved the application on 
21 February 2020. But the funds werent transferred to the dealership who were supplying 
the car at this point, because the car wasnt ready for collection.
Mr and Mrs W contacted VM on 19 March 2020, to let them know that Mr M was being 
placed on unpaid leave by his employer, as a result of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
And they said they no longer wanted the agreement. However, on 23 March 2020, Mr and 
Mrs W contacted VM to say that they still wanted to go ahead with the agreement.
The dealership closed on 24 March 2020, because of the national lockdown in place at the 
time, and they didnt reopen until 5 June 2020. Mr and Mrs W contacted VM on 5 June 2020 
to ask for the funds to be transferred to the dealership at the end of June, when they were 
scheduled to collect the car. But, on 19 June 2020, VM told them that, because 90-days had 
passed since the agreement had been approved, itd now expired. And a new approval 
would be required.
VM had adopted a more cautious approach to lending during the Covid-19 pandemic and, on 
22 June 2020, they told Mr and Mrs W that they werent able to re-approve the lending. Mr 
and Mrs W werent happy with this and complained to VM. VM said there had been some 
delays, and that they didnt explain the 90-day expiry period to Mr and Mrs W when they 
originally approved the finance in February 2020. But they didnt think they acted 
unreasonably by not re-approving the finance, because of Mr Ws employment situation.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this response, and they brought their complaint to us for 
investigation. Theyve said that they had to arrange finance with a different company, and 
that this cost over £5,000 more in repayments than what VM wouldve required them to pay. 
So, they think VM should reimburse them the difference.
Our investigator said that, in March 2020, Mr and Mrs W asked VM not to release the funds, 
because they didnt want to be paying for a car they werent able to collect. And that Mr and 
Mrs W had problems contacting VM about this, as their phone lines were unable to take 
incoming calls. While the investigator said this wouldve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs W, 
he also acknowledged that VM were in an unprecedented situation which affected their day-
to-day operation. And, because the funds werent transferred  which is what Mr and Mrs W 
wanted  he didnt think this had had any impact on the overall outcome.
The investigator also said that its not our role to tell a financial business what policies and 
procedures they should have in place. So, he didnt think VM had done anything wrong by 
changing their lending criteria and applying this to Mr and Mrs Ws re-approval. He also said 
that VM had legitimate concerns over affordability, given Mr Ws change in employment 
status. And he thought VM had acted reasonably by taking this into consideration. And, while 
VM didnt explain the 90-day expiry to Mr and Mrs W, he didnt think that, overall, theyd 
acted unfairly. And he didnt think VM needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. They said they didnt think theyd been 
treated fairly when they were unable to contact VM in March 2020, by phone or email, to 
establish whether the funds had been transferred to the dealership or not. And this caused 
then worry and confusion. And they didnt think that VM had acted fairly by not telling them 
the agreement wasnt in force because the money hadnt been transferred.
Mr W has said that he was only placed on unpaid leave for a period of two weeks, and he 
had a temporary 20% pay cut. But this still left sufficient income to be able to afford the 
agreement. So, he thinks that VM acted unfairly by not re-approving the agreement. Even 
though they understand that there was no obligation on VM to lend them any money.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs W asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs W, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The basic facts of this case, set out above, arent disputed by either VM or Mr and Mrs W. 
As such, I wont repeat these, and my decision will focus on whether I think VM acted fairly 
by not re-approving the application for finance.
VM have said that their offer of finance expired after 90-days. Which, given that it was first 
made on 21 February 2020, wouldve been 22 May 2020. This isnt referred to on any of the 
paperwork, and its not disputed that VM didnt tell Mr and Mrs W this. So, I wouldnt expect 
Mr and Mrs W to have known about the expiry date. But I dont think its unreasonable for a 
finance agreement to have an expiry date, and not to be open ended as customers 
circumstances may change over time.
Ive seen the Pre-Contract Information VM provided to Mr and Mrs W. And this says this 
information is valid for a period of 21 days from the date of issue. It also says that when we 
pay the supplier we will open an account in your name and will debit that account with the 
amount of credit. Given this, I think Mr and Mrs W shouldve been reasonably aware that 
the offer of finance wouldnt have been available indefinately, and that it only came into force 
when the funds were transferred to the dealership. And Mr and Mrs W didnt ask for this to 
happen until 5 June 2020, because of circumstances outside of their control.
Given this, I dont think VM did anything wrong by re-assessing Mr and Mrs Ws application 
after it had expired.
Mr W is an airline pilot, and the travel industry was especially hard hit by the Covid-19 
pandemic as most countries put in some form of restrictions on international travel. And Mr W had made VM aware that hed been put on temporary unpaid leave. He also had a 
temporary reduction in his salary.
In an email dated 22 June 2020, when VM told Mr and Mrs W that they were unable to grant 
credit approval at the present time, they also explained what they would require to be able 
to re-assess the application  Mr W to provide two recent payslips showing he was receiving 
his full wage, and an increase in the amount of the deposit. 
In this email, VM also explained that theyd had to adopt a more cautious appraoch to 
lending and as such had to implement changes to the way we score individuals who are 
currently furloughed or on reduced pay, the industry they work in also plays a part 
considering the current pandemic.
As explained by the investigator, its not our role to tell financial business what lending 
criteria they must have in place, or who they must lend to. And I dont think that VM did 
anything wrong by changing how they assessed (or re-assessed) applications for finance as 
a result of the pandemic.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs W were prepared to consider increasing their deposit, but Ive also 
seen that VM were concerned about press reports of potential job losses, pay cuts, and 
disruption for up to two years in the airline Mr W worked for, as a result of the pandemic. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for VM to base their re-approval decision on the situation in 
June 2020, and not on the situation when the finance was first approved in February 2020.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs W have said that the finance was affordable, even with the 
reduction in income, and that their savings and investments hadnt been taken into 
consideration. But VM are required to consider whether the finance would be affordable over 
the whole term, and that any affordability wasnt reliant upon savings or other investments. 
VM did this and had concerns over the long-term affordability of the agreement. Which 
meant they didnt re-approve the application. They explained this to Mr and Mrs W, and 
explained what they would need to be able to reconsider their decision. Given the overall 
circumstances, I dont think this was unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs W also had difficulties he had getting through to VM in March 2020. The Covid-
19 pandemic was an unprecedented situation. Government advice was for people to work 
from home where possible, and VM wouldve needed to adapt their ways of working. And 
this came at a time when, for the same reasons, VM experienced a large increase in 
customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating and worrying it was for Mr and Mrs W when they 
werent able to get through to VM, I dont think VM did anything wrong because they were 
receiving a very high volume of customer contact at a time when their normal operations 
were disrupted due to circumstances outside of their control.
Mr and Mrs W have also said they couldnt get through to VM by email. From the evidence 
Ive seen, this refers to an email they sent on 31 March 2020 to two VM email addresses. 
But, while they received a message not delivered response from one of these email 
addresses, VM replied to their email the following day. So, I dont think that VM were 
uncontactable by email during this period.
Finally, Mr and Mrs W dont feel theyve been treated fairly by VM when everything is taken 
into consideration. But I havent seen anything to show me that VM treated Mr and Mrs W 
any differently to how they treated any other customers in similar circumstances around the same time. Given this, I dont think that VM treated them unfairly. And I wont be asking them 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman