DRN-4039127
The complaint
Miss Ps complaint is about a second charge mortgage she arranged through Fluent Money 
Limited in 2018. She has said Fluent didnt properly establish, and then assess, her needs 
and circumstances, and so the loan was not suitable for her and was mis-sold. She has 
detailed several reasons for thinking the mortgage was mis-sold:
Other options for consolidating her unsecured debts were not discussed with her.
She was not advised that it would be cheaper to consolidate all of her unsecured debts 
onto her existing mortgage, rather than taking a second mortgage.
Fluent didnt conduct a suitable affordability assessment and the mortgage was not 
affordable, causing her to over commit herself.
Her history of missed payments on pre-existing credit arrangements was not 
appropriately considered.
The mortgage ends after her likely retirement age of 60, and it was not discussed how 
she would meet the monthly payments after that age.
The mortgage didnt repay all of her unsecured debts.
Her home should never have been used to secure the consolidated debts.
Miss P says she has suffered extreme financial hardship as a result of the advice she 
received from Fluent and is at risk of losing her home. She wants the interest charged on the 
mortgage and any fees and charges to be refunded. She has also asked for compensation.
What happened
Miss P entered her details and some information about what she wanted to borrow into an 
aggregator website in December 2017. Miss P has told us she wanted to take out an 
unsecured loan to pay off two of her credit cards. The enquiry was passed to Fluent and it 
was informed Miss P had said she was interested in a secured loan. Fluent contacted Miss P 
shortly thereafter. It provided her with an Initial disclosure document which set out what 
services it could provide. It also said that it recommended a prospective customer to 
consider whether they could obtain the finance they needed by other means, such as their 
current first charge mortgage, a remortgage or an unsecured loan. 
A fact-finding exercise was completed before Fluent provided Miss P with any advice. This 
established that she was employed full-time with a salary of £25,000. She was also in receipt 
of benefits and tax credits, which provided her with around £5,300 additional income. Miss P 
confirmed that her income had recently reduced by around £500 because one of her children 
had gone to university. At the time, she had an existing mortgage of £24,000, a personal 
loan of around £9,000 and approximately £28,700 in credit card debt. The minimum payment 
on the combined credit card balance was just over £1,000 each month, but Miss P had been 
paying £1,200. The mortgage and the personal loan cost a total of approximately £650 each 
month. Fluent asked Miss P when she would like to retire, and she told it at age 60.
Fluents recommendation initially detailed that it had looked at the different options available 
to Miss P. It confirmed that overall her credit profile was good, but the sporadic missed or 
late payments to her existing arrangements reduced the number of lenders that would 
consider her for borrowing. It was detailed that Miss P wanted the mortgage to repay credit 
cards totalling £28,500 over a term of five years. This would allow her to reduce the amount 
she was paying out for the debts and so her overall finances would be more comfortable. 
There was some discussion about the change the loan would create to Miss Ps finances. 
Given the reduction in debt repayment of around £700, she believed that she would be able 
to overpay the personal loan and clear it within two years. Once that was paid off, and her 
main mortgage also was in around five years, she proposed to redirect the money from 
those payments to clear the secured loan before the end of the term.
Fluent detailed that it had originally advised Miss P to consolidate all of her unsecured debts, 
including the personal loan, which would have involved her borrowing £38,000, but Miss P 
had rejected the suggestion and only wanted to consolidate the credit cards. After Fluent 
and the lender completed affordability assessments based on the outgoings in Miss Ps bank 
statements, a term of 13 years was recommended. This involved a monthly payment more 
than £170 lower than the budget Miss P had proposed of £500. 
By the time the application was submitted, Miss Ps credit card debt had increased to 
approximately £29,700 and so she would be left with a credit card balance of just under 
£1,200 after the mortgage was advanced. 
Miss P accepted the recommendation and following this, the lender asker her some 
questions. This included asking for clarification about her wanting to retire at 60, as the loan 
term went beyond that age. Miss P responded in a letter dated 31 January 2018. She said I 
intend to work throughout the loan period and will not retire until thereafter. I was asked 
when would I like to retire and I said 60, but this was just saying thats what I would like to 
do.
Miss Ps second charge mortgage was advanced in February 2018. It was for £28,500 plus 
fees, with a repayment term of 13 years. The monthly payment (CMP) was set at £330.34, 
based on a fixed interest rate of 7.776% for five years.
Miss P complained to Fluent in January 2021. It responded to the complaint in its letter of 
28 February 2021. It set out how Miss P had come to speak to it from December 2017, the 
process that had been gone through and the discussions that had taken place. Fluent 
highlighted the conversations that had been held about the amount of Miss Ps debts that 
would be consolidated, when she planned to retire and the term of the loan. Fluent was 
satisfied that it had fulfilled its responsibility to know its customer and made an appropriate 
assessment of Miss Ps circumstances and recommended a suitable product. As such, it 
rejected the complaint. 
Miss P was not satisfied with Fluents response and referred her complaint to this service. 
When she did, she explained that the personal loan she had in 2017 had been used to 
consolidate previous credit card debt two years earlier and the £28,000 of credit card debt 
that was consolidated in 2017 had been accumulated in only two years. Miss P said she was 
talked into taking a bigger loan than she wanted and over a longer term than planned. By 
2019 she had accumulated a further £20,000 of credit card debt. Miss P said she told Fluent 
about her struggles to pay her existing debts in 2017 and didnt think it should have offered 
her the secured loan as it was not the right product for her, or the help she needed. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Miss P didnt agree and said she didnt think the investigator had fully considered the 
information she had provided. She reiterated her comments about her situation at the time of 
the sale, the affordability of the mortgage and what she remembered telling Fluent. Miss P 
said that no matter what she said to Fluent at the time or what she agreed to, it didnt mean it was right for Fluent to sell her the mortgage. She asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
There was further correspondence exchange between Miss P and our investigator, but 
agreement couldnt be reached. As such the complaint has come to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Miss Ps comments, I think it would initially be worth explaining that the 
simple fact that a consumer has had financial difficulties is not reason for them to be 
declined for borrowing. There will be situations where refinancing or rearranging outstanding 
debts will enable the borrower to manage their financial situation effectively. So the fact that 
Miss P had missed some payments prior to the advice and had a default in the past, doesnt 
automatically mean that the mortgage was mis-sold. Whether Fluent provided her with 
suitable advice is entirely dependent on the situation at the time, including what she told it 
about her circumstances and plans. 
I would say at this point that Miss Ps description of her circumstances in 2017 differs 
significantly from that she gave to Fluent in 2017. The description given in 2017 was that she 
had got into quite some debt and the servicing of it was becoming harder, especially in light 
of the recent reduction in her income due to her daughter leaving home. She was at that 
time looking for a solution to reduce how much she was spending on servicing her debts to 
ensure their affordability and allow her to improve her situation. When assessing a complaint 
I cant use hindsight and must assess it based on the situation at the time of the advice and 
the information the advising business had available at that time. 
I would also confirm that if a consumer asks for financial or mortgage advice from a broker, 
we expect it to consider the options available for the needs and requirements expressed. 
Fluent has said that at the time it only brokered second charge mortgages and so it couldnt 
recommend any other form of funding. However, it did highlight to Miss P when it set out 
what it could do for her that she should consider other options, including looking at whether 
she could increase the borrowing on her existing mortgage. So I think Miss P would have 
been aware that she could look into other options if she wanted to, although given she had 
been on an aggregator website, I think it likely she may have already done so to some 
degree. That said, the fact that she had missed recent payments on her existing 
arrangements would have significantly reduced the chances of her being able to either 
consolidate onto her first charge mortgage or take out a new one. 
Miss P has said that she shouldnt have been sold a secured mortgage. I dont have access 
to the aggregator website information Miss P input, but I it seems unlikely that she would 
have been referred to Fluent for a secured loan if she had not shown some interest in that 
type of loan. Miss P is correct that, if there is the likelihood of a consumer not abiding by the 
terms of a secured loan or mortgage, opting for a secured loan could be seen as placing 
their home in jeopardy. However, where it appears that there is adequate affordability, 
repossession would not be a significant concern and so there is nothing wrong with a broker 
proposing a secured loan. There would also be a significant benefit to borrowing being 
secured in that the interest rate associated with this type of loan would be significantly lower 
than that charged on unsecured lending. I will comment on the suitability of the loan in more 
detail later in this decision, however, I would confirm at this stage that I dont consider that it 
was inappropriate for Fluent to recommend a second charge mortgage to Miss P.
I would at this stage comment on the matter of the mortgage ending after the age Miss P told Fluent she would like to retire. As she told the lender at the time, this was an aspirational 
age for retirement. She didnt anticipate this happening and expected to be working 
throughout the whole of the mortgage term. In light of this, there is no reason for me to 
conclude the term was inappropriate because of how old Miss P would be at its end.
Miss P has commented that the mortgage advance didnt clear all of her unsecured debts 
and left her with the personal loan and one of her credit card debts. I would firstly highlight 
that Fluent recommended that Miss P borrow enough to clear all of her debts, but she didnt 
want to do that. She was conscious that the personal loan had a shorter term than was being 
recommended for the secured loan. Miss P explained that she believed once the remaining 
credit card debt had been cleared and her disposable income increased significantly, she 
would be able to direct additional funds to the personal loan and pay it off in less than two 
years. 
When Miss P spoke to Fluent initially, she told it that she had been paying £1,200 to her 
credit card debt and this had been reducing the balance by around £100 each month. Given 
it was shortly before Christmas that Miss P spoke to Fluent, and the mortgage wouldnt be 
advanced immediately, the amount applied for would have cleared all of Miss Ps credit card 
debt had she continued with her payments. It appears that she didnt do so and also 
increased her indebtedness during December 2017. Based on the conversations Miss P had 
with Fluent, I dont think it could have been expected to know this would happen. However, 
the amount that would have been outstanding if the mortgage advance was used to clear the 
credit card debt would have been relatively minor and given the increase to Miss Ps 
disposable income, could have been repaid within a few months had she wanted to do so. 
I now turn to the matter of affordability. I would firstly confirm, as our investigator did, that 
ultimately the decision about whether the loan was affordable was the lenders. It set the 
criteria for how affordability would be assessed and made the decision about whether it was 
willing to lend, how much it would advance and over what repayment term. So I cant 
consider whether the lending was irresponsible against Fluent. It appears that it was the 
lenders assessment of affordability that meant the term had to be extended by an additional 
year to 13 years. Again, I cant consider this issue against Fluent, and it would be a matter to 
be considered in Miss Ps complaint against the lender. 
However, Miss P is right that Fluent completed an assessment of affordability in order to be 
able to establish if it could help her with her plans. When completing such an assessment a 
broker is heavily reliant on the information provided by its customer. Miss P confirmed her 
net household income was just under £1,740 each month. She also told Fluent that her basic 
outgoings for food, insurances, bills etc. was around £525. When the cost of the mortgage 
and the personal loan were taken into account, that would have left her a disposable income 
of around £560 each month. This ties in with the budget Miss P set for the new mortgage of 
£500. However, it would not normally be considered appropriate to use all of a borrowers 
disposable income for any financial arrangements, as it would leave them without the ability 
to deal with unexpected expenses. 
Fluent initially recommended a loan term that involved a monthly payment of over £100 less 
than it understood Miss Ps disposable income would be if she paid off her credit card debt. 
When it became aware that her monthly outgoings were slightly higher than shed estimated, 
having examined her bank statements, Fluent recommended a longer term to ensure the 
mortgage would be affordable. I know that Miss P wont agree with me, but it does appear 
that Fluent looked into the affordability of the mortgage in quite some depth and made some 
adjustments to the recommendation to ensure that, based on the circumstances at the time 
and Miss Ps plans, the proposed loan was affordable. 
I can only sympathise with the position Miss P now finds herself in, but I am not persuaded that, given her circumstances and plans at the time of the sale, the recommendation Fluent 
made was inappropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 
20 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman