DRN-1269954
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited's decision to decline her home 
insurance claim for escape of water.
What happened
Mrs S has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Ageas. In May 2019, she 
contacted Ageas and informed them that, whilst her son was having a shower, she noticed 
water seeping into the kitchen below the bathroom. After Mrs S had been unable to arrange 
a plumber to attend, Ageas sent its own assessor to the property. 
The assessor produced a report following an inspection of the property. This said that the 
cause of the escape of water was:
"missing grout to the bathroom wall tiles, and seals in visibly poor condition".
As a result of this report, Ageas informed Mrs S that it was declining her claim. Mrs S was 
not happy with this, and said that the assessor had told her the claim would be met. Ageas 
apologised for any incorrect information she had been given. But said that her insurance 
policy did not cover claims caused by gradual events and the cause of the escape of water 
was the gradual deterioration of the grout and seal in the bathroom.
Mrs S brought her complaint about this to our service. But our investigator considered she 
was unable to uphold the complaint. The investigator said that Ageas had provided photos of 
the shower area, and these showed the grout and seal to be in poor condition. She thought 
Ageas had acted reasonably by saying this was the likely cause of the claim and that in the 
circumstances this was not something that was covered by the policy.
Mrs S remained unhappy. She said that escape of water was covered by the policy and that 
the photos exaggerated the damage. As such, her complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S is correct in that the home insurance policy she has with Ageas provides cover for 
claims caused by escaping water. However, the policy also contains a number of relevant 
exclusions to this cover.
The first exclusion is specific to claims caused by escaping water, and the policy says that 
such claims are not covered where the loss or damage has been happening gradually over a 
period of time. 
 The second exclusion is a general exclusion to all claims under the policy. This general 
exclusion says:
"VERY IMPORTANT NOTICE
Please note that this home insurance policy is designed to insure your property 
against loss or damage It does not cover the maintenance of your home
That means we will not cover the cost of wear and tear or maintenance costs such as 
defective rendering, re pointing chimneys or general roof maintenance
We also do not cover damage that happens over time such as damp, rot or damage 
from vermin you should keep your property in good repair, and take reasonable steps 
to avoid loss or damage".
Such exclusions are common to most home insurance policies. These policies are designed 
to offer protection against unforeseen or unexpected events. There is an expectation that 
homeowners will maintain their property to a good standard, so as to avoid preventable 
issues arising.
Mrs S disputes that the cause of the escape of water was a result of the gradual 
deterioration of the grout and sealant around her bath. However, she has not offered any 
other persuasive evidence about what else the cause could be. And given the report from 
the assessor, I am satisfied that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in considering the cause 
of the escaping water to be this gradual deterioration. 
I've also thought about the damage that occurred as a result of this escaping water. The 
escaping water apparently occurred only when the bath or shower was being used. And it is 
likely that the level of damage experienced would not have been the result of a single use of 
this shower. Whilst Mrs S may have only witnessed the water coming into the kitchen on the 
occasion she reported the claim, it is likely that the damage itself had also happened over a 
period of time. So this in itself was most likely gradual damage and hence excluded from 
the policy. 
As the cause of the damage, and the damage itself, was most likely the result of a gradual 
deterioration, this claim falls within the exclusions in the policy. 
However, I have also thought about whether a strict application of the policy terms to Mrs S's 
claim is fair and reasonable. If Mrs S could not have reasonably been aware that there had 
been a deterioration and that water could be escaping, it might not be fair for Ageas to apply 
the exclusions in the policy. 
But the level of damage to the grout and sealant around the bath is evident in the pictures 
taken by the assessor. And whilst I note Mrs S's comments that photos can exaggerate the 
level of damage, the gaps in the tile grouting are, in my view, significant and would have 
been visible to her. I also consider it reasonable to expect a homeowner to appreciate the 
potential risk of water escaping from a bath / shower area that was not adequately 
maintained. 
As such, taking all of the circumstances of this particular case into account, I consider 
Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when declining Mrs S's claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman