DRN-2669038
The complaint
Mrs C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to notify her that the 
direct debits for her and her husbands life insurance had failed, and this left her with no 
cover when her husband passed away. 
 
What happened
Mrs C and her husband held a joint life insurance policy for £125,000 with a life insurance 
provider who I will refer to as A. The premiums were paid monthly by direct debit from Mrs 
Cs sole NatWest account and had been paid since 2014. 
Mr C passed away in August 2019 and Mrs C tried to make a claim under the life insurance 
policy with A. They declined the claim and told her that the policy had lapsed and been 
cancelled as the premiums for 3 December 2018 and 2 January 2019 hadnt been paid. 
Mrs C complained to NatWest about the failure of the direct debit. She raised several 
concerns. She complained that there were sufficient funds in her account to pay the direct 
debit on 3 December 2018, that she was not notified by text or by e mail about the failure of 
the payment, and she also later complained that the online banking records did not show the 
true position of her account on the relevant days so she was unable to see there were 
insufficient funds.    
NatWest issued a final response on 14 October 2019. They also sent two further letters on 
12 November 2020 and 17 December 2020 following further representations from Mrs C. 
These letters confirmed NatWests position which was that:
The direct debit had first failed on 3 December 2018 due to insufficient funds.  As a 
result, A tried to take a double premium on 2 January 2019 but this also failed due to 
insufficient funds. NatWest made a charge for each of these failed debits and letters 
were sent to Mrs C about this. A did not try to take any further direct debits. An 
extract of Mrs Cs account was provided in the response to show that there were 
insufficient funds at the relevant times. 
Text alerts had been sent about the failed debits. Text alert information is only 
retained for 90 days and so they now cannot view it, but in any event, this is a service 
provided by NatWest and should not be relied on, as it is a customers responsibility 
to ensure payments are met. 
They concluded that there was no evidence of a bank error which led to the cancellation of 
the policy and did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Mrs C was unhappy with the banks response and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He thought that Nat west hadnt done 
anything wrong as Mrs Cs account showed there werent enough funds pay the direct debit 
and NatWest had made it clear that text alerts should not be relied upon.  
Mrs C disagreed with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision which is 
why it has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how distressing the last two years must have been for Mrs C. Losing her 
husband unexpectedly and then discovering that she didnt have the life cover that she 
thought she had must have been stressful.  I also note that Mrs C has explained that she 
had some personal health issues prior to the death of her husband.   
With this in mind, Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided both by Mrs C and  
NatWest to decide whether the actions of NatWest have led to the lapsing of the life 
insurance policy.  However, having done so, Ive decided that NatWest havent done 
anything wrong, and Im unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
     
Direct Debits  were there sufficient funds
Ive checked the statements provided by NatWest for December 2018 and January 2019. On 
3 December 2018 the account shows a large number of payments were debited, including 
payments clearing from the previous three days spending and direct debits. This left an 
account balance of only £22.71 which was insufficient to meet the direct debit from A of 
£38.43.  
NatWest have told us they applied an unpaid transaction fee for this failure, and I can see 
that this was debited from Mrs Cs account on 14 January 2019. 
On 2 January 2019 A tried to take a double payment of the premium to cover the December 
and January payments. Mrs Cs statement shows several payments going out that day, 
including some direct debits, leaving an account balance of £19.12, which was insufficient to 
meet the direct debit of £76.86.  NatWest again applied an unpaid transaction fee of £8.00 
which was debited from the account on 15 February 2019.
Im satisfied from looking at these statements that there wasnt enough money in Mrs Cs 
account on either occasion for the direct debit payments to be made to A. I am also satisfied 
that because of this, the charges for the unpaid transactions were property applied. 
Text alerts and letters
Ive thought about to what extent the text alerts and letters, or lack of alerts couldve affected 
Mrs Cs knowledge of what had happened.  
Mrs C has complained that she didnt receive any text alerts to notify her that the direct debit 
had failed. She says that when she went into the branch to complain in September 2019, 
she was told that text alerts and e-mail had been sent. Mrs C told us that the member of staff 
was sharp and unfriendly with her about this. She found out on a later visit to the branch that 
the Act Now text alert system had not been set up on her account until 4 September 2019 
which meant that what she was told her on the first visit wasnt accurate and texts had not 
been sent.  
NatWest have said that a customer shouldnt rely on text alerts to manage their banking, as 
they are not reliable because of mobile phone coverage and other issues beyond their 
control. Mrs C was given mixed and confusing information about text alerts in branch. However, it 
appears that the text alerts werent set up until after Mrs C had complained to NatWest so 
Mrs C was not used to using them to manage her money. It appears that she regularly 
logged into her online banking throughout the month to manage her money.  
Nat West provided me with records which include an e mail sent by Mrs C to NatWest on 15 
December 2018 asking for a refund of a charges applied on 14 December following a 
separate unpaid direct debit. Nat West responded on 24 December 2018 advising that the 
unpaid transaction fee was applied on 14 December for a failed direct debit, and a further 
unpaid transaction fee was due to be applied on 14 January 2019 for another failed direct 
debit in the period 24 November 2018 to 24 December 2018. This was the failed payment to 
A.  Although this letter doesnt name the payee of the direct debit as A, I think this is 
sufficient evidence to show that Mrs C was told that a direct debit had failed, and I think that 
shouldve alerted her to check them. 
Incorrect online banking statements
Mrs C also raised the issue that when she viewed her online banking on the app on 3 
December 2018, it did not show all the transactions that were paid out on that day and so it 
didnt provide her with the correct information to budget that day.
 
NatWest have provided me with a copy of Mrs Cs online banking log from June 2018 to 
April 2020. This shows an entry for each time Mrs C logged onto her online banking. I can 
see from these records that Mrs C regularly logged into her online banking at least every few 
days and she appeared to be actively monitoring her account.  I can see that Mrs C logged 
in 16 times in November 2018, the last being on 27 November 2018 and then she logged in 
again on 8 December 2018. There is no record of her logging in on 3 December 2018. Mrs C 
did log in on 2 January 2019 when she was active in online banking at 3.23pm, 3.27pm, 
5.40pm and 8.38pm.  
As Mrs C didnt log in on 3 December 2018, Im not satisfied that she could have been 
misled on 3 December 2018 about her account balance as she suggests.  By the time she 
logged in on 8 December, all of the transactions from 3 December 2018 should have been 
visible and she would have been aware that the funds in her account were very low.
 
I accept that she may not have noticed that her direct debit had not gone out. However, Mrs 
C had been paying the direct debit to Aviva since 2014 at the same time every month, and if 
she was monitoring her account to ensure that she had sufficient funds to pay out her 
expenses, I wouldve expected this payment to be one of the items that she checked for. 
In view of the above I cant fairly say that NatWest are responsible for the failure of the direct 
debit, or for Mrs C not being aware of it.
 
I realise that this will be disappointing for Mrs C, and I would not want to further add to her 
difficulties, but I hope that my reasons give her a clear picture of why I am not upholding her 
complaint. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint so I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman