DRN-4245831
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt cancel his direct debits and respond to 
requests for information he made about his Barclays account.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr P wrote to Barclays, having recently been incarcerated, and asked for all 
direct debits on his account to be cancelled and for Barclays to change the address on his 
account and to send copies of recent statements to him. Mr P didnt receive any response 
from Barclays despite repeated requests over several months. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays confirmed theyd received a request from Mr P dated 16 May 2022  over a year 
after March 2021  and that theyd replied to Mr P shortly afterwards and confirmed that all 
direct debits on his account were cancelled as requested. However, the requests to change 
the address and provide statements required a higher level of verification, and because 
Barclays didnt hold a signature for Mr P, they were unable to verify whether the written 
requests theyd received were genuine  and so didnt comply with them.
However, Barclays noted that theyd received further requests for the change of address and 
the statements on 20 June 2022 and 22 July 2022. And they also noted that because Mr P 
was incarcerated that his access to his Barclays account was limited. As such, Barclays felt 
that they should have done more to assist Mr P upon receipt of his request, and they 
updated Mr Ps address and provide statements to him as asked. Mr P wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response and noted that hed first requested that his direct debits be cancelled in 
March 2021, not May 2022. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that there wasnt any compelling 
evidence which confirmed that Mr P had attempted to contact Barclays during 2021 as he 
suggested, and they felt that Barclays had responded to the first contact theyd received 
from Mr P in May 2022. However, our investigator didnt feel Barclays acknowledgement 
that they should have actioned Mr Ps requests sooner than they did fairly addressed the 
trouble and worry Mr P had incurred as a result, and so they recommended that Barclays 
should make a payment of £50 to Mr P as compensation for that trouble and worry. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
When Mr P submitted his complaint to this service, he said hed been submitting requests to 
Barclays in writing since March 2021. But the first letter Barclays have record of receiving 
from Mr P wasnt until May 2022. Our investigator questioned Mr P about this and noted that 
Barclays had said that cash withdrawals had been made using Mr Ps debit card in 2021. 
In response, Mr P explained that requests had been made to Barclays to cancel his direct 
debits in 2021, but that these had been done by telephone by persons other than himself on 
his behalf. As such, given that it wouldnt be expected that Barclays would have acted to 
cancel the direct debits upon verbal requests to do so from persons other than Mr P, Im 
satisfied that it is most likely that the first written request that Barclays received from Mr P  
and upon which they could reasonably act  was the letter received by them in May 2022.
Given that the May 2022 letter included that Mr P was incarcerated, which meant his ability 
to access his account was restricted, Im in agreement with Barclays that they should have 
done more to assist Mr P at that time. Although Im pleased that Barclays did recognise this 
point and did update Mr Ps address and provide the requested statements to Mr P at the 
time of their response to his complaint.
But Im also in agreement with our investigator that Mr P has incurred a degree of upset and 
inconvenience because Barclays didnt take his circumstances into consideration more 
quickly that should have been avoided. And I feel that Mr P should receive some small 
financial compensation from Barclays in acknowledgement of this upset and inconvenience. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £50 as recommended by our 
investigator seems fair to me, given the full circumstances of this complaint. These include 
that Barclays did act in accordance with their processes here  signature verification is 
required by Barclays for written requests for statements and to change an address. And I 
feel this £50 compensation amount is a fair amount for Barclays not recognising that they 
needed to make an exception to their process as quickly as they should have realised this.
All of which means that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ps favour and instructing 
Barclays to make a £50 payment to him. Its my understanding that Mr P has provided 
details of a third-party that hed like the compensation paid to, and so Barclays should 
honour Mr Ps request accordingly.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £50 to Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclay Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman