DRN-3958465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs W took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. 
The policy was underwritten by Mapfre. In August 2019, they booked a skiing holiday abroad 
in a country Ill call F. They were due to travel in December 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised UK 
nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government 
imposed lockdown.
Mr and Mrs Ws annual policy was due to renew in June 2020. In May 2020, they received a 
renewal notice from Mapfre which stated that their new policy would exclude Covid-19 
related claims. However, the notice said that for trips booked before 13 March 2020, claims 
for Covid-19 would be considered under the old policy terms, providing there was no break 
in cover. The policy renewed in June 2020.
The balance of Mr and Mrs Ws holiday was due in September 2020. Mrs W says she called 
Mapfre to check whether any cancellation claim due to Covid-19 disruption would be 
covered before paying the balance and that she was told it would. So she says that based 
on that assurance, she paid the balance of the trip.
As there were FCDO travel restrictions in place in December 2020, Mr and Mrs Ws trip was 
rescheduled for December 2021.
However, in December 2021, Fs government imposed travel restrictions on UK nationals, 
due to the Omicron coronavirus variant. So while the ski resort remained open, Mr and Mrs 
W were unable to travel as planned. Therefore, they made a claim on their travel insurance 
policy for their cancellation costs.
Mapfre turned down the claim. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy which 
applied at the time of the claim specifically excluded claims which were caused by Covid-19, 
unless a policyholder had cancelled their trip because theyd contracted the virus.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Mapfres decision. They felt Mapfre hadnt assessed their 
claim in line with the terms which had applied when they took out their policy. And they said 
theyd relied to their detriment on the assurance theyd been given by Mapfre that their claim 
would be covered. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think itd been unreasonable for Mapfre to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim. She was satisfied that as Mr and Mrs Ws trip had been booked prior to 13 March 
2020 and as theyd renewed their policy with Mapfre in June 2020, with no break in cover, 
Mapfre ought to have assessed the claim using the 2019 policy terms and conditions. She 
obtained a copy of the applicable contract terms. But she didnt think the circumstances 
surrounding Mr and Mrs Ws claim wouldve been covered under their old policy either. 
The investigator accepted that Mrs W may have called Mapfre in September 2020. But 
Mapfre had no record of any call being made. In the absence of a call recording, the 
investigator considered what she thought was most likely to have happened. And she felt it 
was most likely that Mrs W wouldve been given a generic response which stated that in the 
event of a claim, the circumstances would be considered in line with the policy terms. 
However, the investigator did think that Mapfre had made some mistakes in the way it 
handled Mr and Mrs Ws claim and so she recommended that it should pay compensation of 
£150.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. In summary, Mrs W said that shed called the broker (which had 
been acting on Mapfres behalf) and had been given very specific assurances about this 
scenario. Without such an assurance, she would have chosen to forfeit her relatively low 
deposit and decline to pay the holiday balance. Shed provided us with a handwritten entry in 
a book which she felt corroborated her testimony. She felt that Mapfre had failed to give her 
clear, fair and not misleading information about her cover and it hadnt told her that in order 
to be covered for Covid-19, shed have needed to buy add-on travel disruption cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think that the fair outcome for 
this complaint is for Mapfre to pay them £150 compensation and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Mapfre 
treated them fairly.
It seems to me that there are two key issues for me to decide. First, was the claim covered 
by the policy terms? And second, did Mapfre give Mrs W misleading information which 
caused her to lose out? Ill address each in turn.
Was the claim covered by the policy terms?
Mapfre assessed the claim under the 2021 terms and conditions, which excluded 
cancellation claims caused by Covid-19 unless a policyholder, their close relative or 
travelling companion had contracted the virus. Mr and Mrs W say that their claim should 
have been assessed under the 2019 policy terms  which formed their original contract with 
Mapfre. 
Ive looked closely at the renewal notice Mr and Mrs W were sent in May 2020. Im satisfied 
that that notice clearly indicated that if there was no break in cover and if a trip had been 
booked before 13 March 2020, Mapfre would assess claims for Covid-19 under the original 
policy terms and conditions. In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip was 
booked in August 2019  around seven months before Covid-19 was designated as a 
pandemic.However, the cancellation of the holiday took place in December 2021. By this point, Mr and 
Mrs Ws policy had renewed for a second time and the 2020-21 policy year had ended. It 
isnt clear whether Mapfre had also extended the 2019 terms to the 2021 renewal for trips 
booked prior to 13 March 2020. I say that because the policy schedule refers to Mr and Mrs 
Ws policy as Mapfre Multitrip.com UK 2019. So its possible that Mapfre still intended to 
assess claims for trips booked prior to 13 March 2020 in line with the 2019 policy terms. 
If this was the case, then I agree that Mapfre should have assessed this claim in line with Mr 
and Mrs Ws original policy terms and conditions. Mapfre has provided us with a copy of the 
2019 contract terms and so Ive looked closely at the cancellation cover the policy provided.
Page 14 of the 2019 policy terms sets out the applicable cancellation cover. This says that 
Mapfre will pay a policyholders irrecoverable travel, accommodation and other pre-paid 
costs if their trip has to be cancelled for one of the following, specified reasons:
The death, Bodily Injury, illness or Complications of Pregnancy and Childbirth:
oYou
oYour Travelling Companion
oany person with whom You have arranged to reside temporarily
oYour Close Relative
oYour Close Business Associate
Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a 
Court of Law of You or Your Travelling Companion.
You or Your Travelling Companion being made redundant, as long as You had been 
working at Your current place of employment for a minimum continuous period of two 
years, and that at the time when You purchased this insurance or at the time of 
booking any Trip, there was no reason to believe that You would be made redundant. 
This cover would not apply if You are self-employed or accept voluntary redundancy.
You or any person who You are travelling or have arranged to travel with are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have Your/their authorised 
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that such 
cancellation or Curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time 
when You purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any Trip.
In the event of Burglary at Your Home within 48 hours of Your departure or the police 
requesting You to return to Your Home due to serious damage to Your Home caused 
by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, malicious persons or theft.
I think that Mapfre has clearly set out the listed, insured events which it had chosen to cover 
in the event a policyholder had to cancel their trip. I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ws trip could 
fairly be deemed to have been cancelled for any of the above reasons. And cancellation of a 
trip due to the prohibitive regulations of a government simply isnt something Mapfre decided 
to insure. 
The 2019 policy does provide cancellation in situations like those Mr and Mrs W found 
themselves in if a policyholder has paid an additional premium for extended cancellation 
cover. However, I can see from Mr and Mrs Ws policy schedule that this wasnt something 
theyd chosen to purchase when they bought the policy. And Mrs W says that the broker 
didnt highlight this optional extra to them. If they feel there were any failings in the way the 
policy was sold to them though, or that they werent given enough information about the add-on cover available to them, theyd need to make a separate complaint about that issue to 
their broker. Thats because Mapfre isnt responsible for the sale of the policy.
As Ive mentioned above, it isnt clear to me whether at renewal in 2021, Mapfre had 
extended its agreement to assess claims for trips booked prior to 13 March 2020 in line with 
the 2019 terms. So Ive also thought about whether the claim wouldve been covered under 
the terms of the 2021 policy if those contract terms had applied. And I dont think it would. 
The list of specific insured events under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy 
are the same as those set out in the 2019 policy. And as Ive mentioned above, the policy 
specifically excludes claims which are caused by Covid-19 unless a trip is cancelled 
because:
You or a Close Relative or Travelling Companion are medically diagnosed with Coronavirus 
or personally instructed to isolate by an NHS service or medical professional. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs W didnt cancel their trip in 2021 because theyd contracted Covid-
19 and neither were they directed to isolate by the NHS or a medical professional. So their 
claim simply wouldnt have been covered under the terms of the 2021 policy either. Im 
mindful too that at the time of cancellation, while Fs government had imposed restrictions on 
UK nationals travelling to it, there was no FCDO advice against travelling to F. 
Overall, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Mapfre to 
accept Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Did Mapfre give Mr and Mrs W misleading information which caused them to lose out?
Its clear Mrs W feels strongly that she called Mapfre (or the broker, acting as the policy 
administrator) ahead of paying the holiday balance, to discuss whether Covid-19 related 
claims would be covered. Shes maintained that she was assured that claims would be 
covered in this situation and that if the terms had been properly explained to her, shed have 
decided against paying the holiday balance. So she feels that she and Mr W have been 
prejudiced by the information they say Mrs W was given.
Ive looked carefully at the handwritten note Mrs W has provided. This says: phoned 11/9/20 
Insurance company. Should cover chalet if cancelled. Mrs W has also provided us with 
details of the phone numbers she wouldve called from.
As the investigator explained, we asked Mapfre to search its phone records to locate this call 
and Mapfre says it also asked the broker to do the same thing. Unfortunately, Mapfre has no 
call recording and Ive seen no call records from the broker either. In line with our rules, 
Mapfre is required to provide us with any evidence we require, so I think its most likely that it 
doesnt have a copy of the relevant call recording.
In the absence of a call recording, I too have had to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened based on the evidence and circumstances. I dont know exactly what questions 
Mrs W asked, what details she gave about her policy or the trip. And I cant know for certain 
what Mapfre said either. Whilst Mrs Ws note says that cancellation claims should be 
covered  this doesnt appear to be definitive. And as the investigator explained, in my 
experience, if a policyholder queries cover before a claim event has happened, or a claim 
has been made, insurers will generally tell a policyholder to submit their evidence and that 
the claim will be assessed in line with the policy terms and conditions. Generally, cover isnt 
confirmed until all of the claims evidence has been considered alongside the applicable 
contract terms. So it would be very unusual for Mapfre to have confirmed cover for an event 
which hadnt happened.On that basis then, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that its more likely 
than not that Mrs W was told her claim would be covered. And this means I dont think I 
could fairly or reasonably hold Mapfre responsible for her decision to pay the holiday 
balance.
If, however, Mr and Mrs W are later able to obtain a copy of the call recording which 
supports their position, its open to them to send it on to Mapfre to consider.
Notwithstanding the above, I agree that there were failings in the way Mapfre handled this 
claim. Mapfre may have wrongly assessed the claim using the 2020-21 policy terms and 
conditions and even if Im wrong on this point, it doesnt appear to have responded to Mr and 
Mrs Ws information requests in a timely way. I think this caused Mr and Mrs W unnecessary 
upset and inconvenience. So I too think that Mapfre must pay Mr and Mrs W £150 
compensation to reflect the additional trouble and upset it caused them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay 
Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman