DRN-3327209
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction he made on his credit card to get out of a Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr R had a Timeshare type agreement which he wanted to get out of. 
Around that time he came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services (which I will call Firm A). It said could get him out of the timeshare 
agreement and / or support and advise on a legal claim regarding the original sale of the 
timeshare. It would provide this service for a fee.  So Mr R paid Firm A by credit card the 
amount of £480. He also made a bank transfer to Firm A for the balance of the one-off fee. 
All in all he paid £5767 to Firm A.
In 2018 after a Court Judgement Mr R was released from the Timeshare Agreement he was 
in.  He says he never received any real services or refund from Firm A. Over time he 
became aware of many other unhappy timeshare owners in the same situation as his who 
had dealt with Firm A and others like it. So he complained to Barclays in 2019.
Barclays considered the matter and decided that it didnt have any liability in these 
circumstances and told Mr R it wouldnt be giving him any refund in relation to the money he 
paid to Firm A.
Mr R feels this is unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
considered the matter but found that Barclays hadnt treated him unfairly in its handling of 
the matter. Mr R still hasnt had his money back and is still unhappy and accordingly this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm A or other firms like it. This is 
because these companies arent within the jurisdiction of this service. 
This decision is solely about what Barclays did or didnt do in relation to its obligations. And it 
should be remembered that Barclays are only involved in this issue as a result of its 
managing Mr Rs credit card account which he used to make one of these transactions to 
Firm A. In essence the test I must consider is whether the transaction itself was made 
correctly, and whether Barclays position in regard to Chargeback and Mr Rs Section 75 
claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was fair.
Barclays can only be held responsible for what it has done or should have done or under any 
obligations it has. Its liability is not endless or total. I note Mr R has pointed to a lot of 
evidence around Firm A and the broader Timeshare and Timeshare Relinquishment 
landscapes. But that is not part of this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Barclays 
consideration of the three areas Ive outlined is the crux of the complaint and the only matter 
I can decide upon here. I hope that this is sufficiently clear to Mr R.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr R his complaint 
about Barclays fails. I shall explain why.
Mr R doesnt contest that he made the transaction originally, or that it was applied incorrectly 
to his account. Ive considered the transaction itself and Im satisfied Barclays didnt do 
anything wrong in processing it or allocating that amount to his account.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr R 
does here, Barclays (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme (which isnt Barclays here). So Barclays isnt the final arbiter in 
whether the chargeback is successful-the card scheme is. And Chargeback isnt a right, but 
this Service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback if within the time limits and 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr R didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given that Mr R freely accepts he made part of his overall payment 
for this service from Firm A by using his Barclays credit card. And Im not persuaded it has 
been wrongly applied to his account.
Secondly the Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be 
raised to challenge disputed transactions. The rules are clear on the timeframes applicable 
and I can see that between when Mr R made the transaction in 2016 and when he raised the 
issue with Barclays a number of years later there is a substantial time span. And this time 
span is significantly outside the timeframes set out in this particular card schemes rules. As 
it is so far out of time and thus didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, I dont think 
Barclays has treated Mr R unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a 
dispute here. So I dont think Mr R has lost out here because of what Barclays did in relation 
to Chargeback as he was well out of time when he raised this dispute.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
Mr R used his credit card with Barclays for one of the transactions. This means Barclays has 
certain responsibilities to Mr R which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail 
about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr R to hold 
Barclays liable for breaches of contract by Firm A, or material misrepresentations made by it 
in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach 
of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under 
that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and 
transpires to be untrue leading to detriment. This legislation has the effect of meaning that 
not only could Barclays be held responsible for the transactions it was party to, but also the 
bank transfer it wasnt directly party to and also any applicable consequential loss. But 
Barclays are only liable if breach of contract or material misrepresentation by Firm A is made 
out. It is not responsible for Firm As conduct wholly, but rather only if either of these two 
areas are made out. This is the key test here.
It is clear that Mr R is very much of the opinion that Firm breached the contract made and 
particularly made misrepresentations to him which led to him losing out. But before deciding 
on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some requirements set out in 
the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think on balance that Mr Rs claim 
meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. Ive 
considered what has happened here and Im satisfied that this dispute regarding this credit 
card transaction meets the prerequisites for a claim to have the opportunity of being 
successful.
So was there breach of contract or material misrepresentation?
The service to be provided is defined in the contract and its start and end are clearly set out:
The Service shall commence on the date of the signing and acceptance of this 
contract and shall continue until The Client receives confirmation of the disposal of 
his timeshare ownership and / or when The Client" has received written notification 
as to the result of any claim for compensation.
Immediately below this statement are spaces for the Firm A representative, Mr R and Mrs R 
to initial their understanding. I can see all three initialled here and subsequently initialled 
other pages and signed the contract. So Im satisfied on balance that Mr R had seen the 
terms of the written contract which was agreed between the parties. So although Mr R says 
he was told other things at the time Im not persuaded he didnt appreciate what he was 
agreeing because he signed this written contract. And Im not persuaded from what Mr R 
has said that there is sufficient for Barclays to have concluded on balance that the parties 
had agreed to vary the terms from the written contract.
It is also clear from the above, and what we know, that we have strong evidence as to the 
time period when this contract was to be in force. Namely from when Mr R signed the 
contract until the point when his timeshare was to be disposed, which would in essence be 
when his legal case was concluded in the local courts by the issuance of the Court 
Judgement. This is because the section Ive quoted makes clear that the contract ends 
either when the timeshare is disposed of or when a result on any compensation claim is 
notified. 
Ive considered the court documents provided, the emails from Firm A and other information 
regarding legal advice from another legal company. It is evident from those 
contemporaneous documents that Firm A had, at the least, taken steps to move towards 
legal action. And it appears that it had been involved in the initial legal processes which were 
concluded by the Court Judgement. And the lawyers that had been engaged by Firm A 
appear to be one and the same as some of the lawyers mentioned in the Court judgement 
as being involved in the beginning.
And in Firm As contract it describes itself as a company specialising in Timeshare / Holiday 
Ownership disputes, working in association with lawyers and other industry experts to 
pursue compensation claims on the basis of (including but not limited to) mis-selling and 
misrepresentation of timeshare and to assist with the disposal of unwanted timeshares. So 
in essence the contract agreed to was fulfilled as Mr R paid for the service and he got out of 
his timeshare. It is clear that Mr R engaged further legal support and the Court Judgement 
itself shows that the role of representing Mr R was later provided by other legal 
representation not sourced by Firm A. But this doesnt demonstrate that Firm A had 
breached the contract. 
Bearing in mind the terms of the contract I note that Mr R had agreed to giving Firm A the 
sole right of pursuing the matters that the service provided by Firm A was defined as. So it could be argued that it was actually Mr R that breached the contract first, particularly 
considering the other terms of the contract which make clear that there was no guarantee of 
success or any defined period in which the service would come to conclusion. The contract 
specifically explains that matters will be progressed on a best endeavours basis within the 
constraints of due process. But I dont think whether Mr R breached the contract is the crux 
of this complaint. The crux is whether Firm A did or not and hence whether Barclays is 
responsible or not.
Barclays obligations here are to consider Mr Rs s75 claim to it and if breach of contract or 
material misrepresentation are made out to redress the matter as if it were the supplier (Firm 
A) here. Barclays is not responsible for the customer service of Firm A. It can only be held 
responsible for losses as a result of breach of contract or misrepresentation. And as such it 
is obliged to consider the matter and fairly conclude whether breach or misrepresentation 
have happened and if so how to redress the matter. And to do this it needs to consider the 
contract in place. And bearing in mind that Mr R repeatedly initialled and signed the contract 
between him and Firm A, I dont think Barclays is being unfair in considering that was what 
was agreed between the parties at that point. 
And it is important to remember that the contract document stems from the date of 
agreement. And although a lot has been said and happened since I dont think Barclays has 
been unfair in relying on it. And considering what we know and what has happened since Im 
not persuaded that a breach of contract has been made out here. And as a consequence I 
dont think Barclays has treated Mr R unfairly by concluding that there had been no breach 
made out. Ultimately Firm A did engage in providing the service agreed to and the goal of 
extrication from the timeshare was achieved. Its clear other parties became involved but 
there simply isnt persuasive evidence to show the contract was breached.
Mr R states hes been misrepresented to. For misrepresentation to be made out there is in 
essence there has to be a false statement of fact, Mr R needs to rely on that false statement 
of fact and then it needs to be shown hes lost out as a result of relying on it. Ive considered 
the contract agreed to and Im not persuaded he was given any guarantees of success or 
quoted any amounts he would definitely gain. Similarly the correspondence between Mr R 
and Firm A doesnt make any statements of fact as to what Mr R would gain but rather that 
Firm A would aim to provide the service it had agreed to. Namely working on freeing him 
from his timeshare and working towards a possible claim. It maybe that Mr R might argue 
not enough was done by Firm A regarding a compensation claim. But we have little evidence 
from Firm A about what it was doing. However the terms of the contract included clarity 
regarding when the contract would end and didnt give guarantees about time or success. So 
it could legitimately be argued that Firm A was working towards a claim but then the contract 
concluded. So it didnt have to do any more. So having considered what has happened here 
Im not persuaded that Barclays treated Mr R unfairly by deciding there was no 
misrepresentation here which required Barclays to redress Mr R.
So having considered everything that has happened here Im not persuaded that Barclays 
has treated Mr R unfairly. And consequently Mr Rs complaint is unsuccessful.
For the sake of completeness Ill address some of Mr Rs arguments. Firstly I should note 
that Mr R in his response to the Investigators assessment didnt point persuasively to any 
failings of Barclays in its consideration of his s75 claim. And this is the crux of the issue-did it 
consider his claim fairly. Rather Mr R pointed to many pieces of evidence, many of which do 
not depict either Firm A or the broader timeshare and timeshare relinquishment arenas in the 
best of lights. Nevertheless the test here is solely about Barclays.
Mr R says the investigators assessment (and by extension my own as I agree broadly with 
the Investigators reasoning) are not in keeping with the relevant laws. Ive considered this and the facts of the matter carefully. Ive considered the relevant laws and articulated the key 
issues in this decision. Ive also considered Mr Rs arguments carefully and I dont think 
theyre persuasive. And Im satisfied my position is fair and reasonable. 
Mr R points to numerous legal cases in the press and states that its a general principle that 
loser pays the costs. He also points to the Consumer Rights Act and various sections of 
that. However ultimately he paid Firm A for a service and Im not persuaded it has been 
shown that it breached the contract or materially misrepresented to him. Im not persuaded 
that any of his arguments show that Barclays should have taken the view that the contract 
should have been frustrated or otherwise voided. So I dont think Barclays has treated him 
unfairly by not refunding him. 
In retrospect Mr R may feel he shouldnt have entered the agreement with Firm A or paid it 
what he did. And he may feel that the Court Judgement could have gone further in his 
favour. And he may also feel that the whole Timeshare and Timeshare Industry is unfair. But 
none of that is Barclays fault. Furthermore it is not for this service or Barclays in this scenario 
to make judgement calls on the price or value for money that Mr R paid/got through this 
agreement. Barclays only has to make good on s75 claims where breach of contract or 
misrepresentation is made out.
Mr R has also argued that Barclays should refund him due to it being better placed and 
having greater resources to recover the money Mr R paid. Im not persuaded this is a fair 
solution for a variety of reasons, including Barclays isnt responsible for the agreements that 
Mr R clearly chose to enter into. It is only obliged to remedy breaches of contract or 
misrepresentation under s75. And it should be remembered that its only involvement in this 
matter was it processed the credit card transaction at Mr Rs direction. And its only obligation 
to consider his claim stems from the legislation Ive described. The originating parties to this 
agreement are those who agreed to it-namely Mr R and Firm A.
Mr R has pointed to what he considers to be unfair terms within the contract and Unfair 
Contract Term Regulations more broadly. He has also said that due to the presence of 
differing corporate entities and addresses that these show the contract he entered into had 
unfair contract terms. Firstly the presence of related legal entities in differing jurisdictions 
doesnt demonstrate any contract term is unfair. It may make ownership and jurisdiction less 
obvious but that in itself doesnt make the terms unfair. Furthermore Im not persuaded by 
his arguments here, the service paid for was made clear and Mr R did get out of his 
timeshare. He paid the cost upfront and knowingly did so clearly. So Im not necessarily 
persuaded there are such terms here nor am I persuaded that considering everything 
happened here that any such terms if present made a material difference. So I dont 
consider these arguments sufficient to change tack.
Mr R points to numerous press articles, advertising regulators findings and reports of other 
legal cases regarding Firm A and the broader timeshare and timeshare industry and the 
clear issues present therein. None of this is in dispute. But this service can only decide on 
disputes between parties based on the relevant facts to that particular case. Furthermore 
although all that Mr R points to provides varying level of context to the matters at hand, the 
crux here is whether Barclays treated Mr R fairly or not. And Im satisfied it has treated him 
fairly based on its obligations.
In summary and having considered all the relevant information and arguments made here it 
is my conclusion that this complaint does not succeed.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr R wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position and he clearly feels that Firm A hasnt treated him fairly. But this isnt 
Barclays fault. Here Barclays is only responsible for the transaction itself, its consideration of chargeback and its consideration of the s75 claim Mr R made to it. And within that scope and 
the obligations Barclays has Im satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in not refunding him 
what he paid Firm A.
Mr R is at liberty to not accept this decision and thus not be bound by it. And if he does that 
he can continue his dispute in any way he sees fit. However this final decision does bring to 
an end this services involvement in this dispute between Mr R and Barclays on this matter.
My final decision
So it is my decision that this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC is not upheld. 
Consequently Barclays has nothing further to do in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman