DRN-2719886
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited did not change its claims decision 
following receipt of new medical evidence she provided.
What happened
Mrs R had a critical illness policy with Aviva which was taken out in 2003. In 2017 Mrs R 
sadly became ill and was taken to hospital. She put in a claim with Aviva which she felt was 
payable under the heart attack term of her policy, but this wasnt accepted. 
Mrs R complained but Aviva said the claim wasnt payable. So Mrs R then brought her 
concerns to our service.  
An ombudsman issued a final decision in August 2018. The ombudsman didnt uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint as they felt the evidence didnt show that Mrs Rs illness met the definition 
of a heart attack as outlined in the policy terms. The definition was:
The death of a portion of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in 
all of the following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
Typical chest pain,
New characteristic electrocardiographic changes,
The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes, troponins or other biochemical markers;
Where all of the above shows a definite acute myocardial infarction. Other acute coronary 
syndromes, including but not limited to angina, are not covered under this definition.
The ombudsman said I think its clear there needs to be a definite diagnosis of acute 
myocardial infarction as evidenced by the death of heart muscle and other listed factors. 
Its possible for some of these factors to be present for other reasons not involving infarction. 
So the fact they may have been present in Mrs Rs case isnt enough on its own to show she 
had acute myocardial infarction and that the claim is therefore payable.
The ombudsman said that those best placed to comment on whether Mrs R had acute 
myocardial infarction are the medical professionals involved in her treatment. They weighed 
up the evidence from Mrs Rs doctors, including her consultant cardiologist Dr M. 
They concluded I think Dr Ms comments show Mrs R was initially told shed had a heart 
attack and was treated as such, and that she fulfilled the criteria for acute coronary 
syndrome, further investigations ultimately didnt lead to a diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction.
The ombudsman concluded that without evidence from her doctors confirming she suffered 
acute myocardial infarctionI dont think I can reasonably say Aviva should pay her claim.
In 2020 Mrs R provided Aviva with some new evidence in support of her claim - 
Mrs R submitted two letters.
One was a letter from her GP dated September 2019. It said that Mrs R had asked the GP 
to confirm that you have had a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction, known as NSTEMI. 
The GP confirmed that this was reported to them in writing by Mrs Rs cardiologist, Dr M, in a 
letter dated June 2019.
The second letter was the one referred to by Mrs Rs GP from her consultant cardiologist, 
Dr M, dated June 2019. This stated: 
This lady was admitted with an Acute Coronary Syndrome (non ST elevation myocardial 
infarction, one of the variety of Acute Coronary Syndrome). She had some impairment of left 
ventricular function, the Troponin was significantly raised and minor ECG changes.  Later on 
an angiogram did not show any significant obstruction, any thrombus but only 10% plaque 
seen on coronary angiogram. She has been treated for NSTEMI with acute presentation.
Aviva reviewed the evidence but having done so, it wasnt willing to pay the claim. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with this and so she complained but this wasnt upheld. Mrs R remained 
unhappy, so she asked our service to look into her new complaint. 
Aviva told us the letters confirmed information it was already aware of. It said Dr M had 
concluded a final diagnosis of takotsubo cardiomyopathy back in 2018 and it hadnt seen 
any evidence to confirm this final diagnosis was incorrect.
Mrs R told us there was nothing in her policy about final diagnosis and she felt that terms 
were being written into her contract that were not there. Mrs R also said she feels it is unfair 
that Aviva is treating her as though she didnt have a heart attack, when the medical 
professionals she sees act otherwise. 
After considering the evidence, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think 
there was any material new information. Mrs R disagreed so the matters been passed to me 
to decide.
Mrs R has recently provided a further letter, from March 2021 written by her GP which she 
also thinks supports her claim. The letter says Mrs R was diagnosed with a heart attack 
(known as a non ST elevation acute myocardial infarction) on 15th November, 2017.
Aviva has reviewed this letter and confirmed it hasnt changed its decision. It thinks this letter 
incorrectly summarises the other medical evidence available. Mrs R remains unhappy with 
this and Aviva has agreed I can consider this within my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Id like to start by explaining that I cannot comment on or change the previous ombudsmans 
decision. In this decision I will consider the new evidence submitted to Aviva by Mrs R and 
whether it is reasonable in the circumstances for Aviva to refuse Mrs Rs claim.
All three of the letters Mrs R provided are new in the sense that they were written recently. 
So Im satisfied they werent available to either Aviva or our service when the decline of the 
claim was considered previously.I can see that Aviva has reviewed the new evidence Mrs R submitted which is what Id 
expect it to do. Having done so, it has said it will not reconsider its decision. So what I need 
to look at here is whether the letters contain any material new evidence or information such 
that Aviva should change its claims decision.
The GP letter dated September 2019 simply reports what the cardiologist said in a letter 
from June 2019. Given this, I dont think this letter is a new source of information in itself  
I think what matters here is the letter to which it refers. 
The June 2019 letter is from Mrs Rs consultant cardiologist. The letter shows Mrs R was 
admitted for non-ST elevation myocardial infarction and was treated for NSTEMI with acute 
presentation. What it doesnt do is confirm that acute myocardial infarction was her 
diagnosis. So I cant say that this letter provides the definitive proof of a diagnosis that our 
ombudsman said would make the claim payable. 
I also dont think this letter contains any materially new information. Some of the nuance of 
the explanation Dr M gives here is subtly different, for example he says Mrs R was admitted 
with NSTEMI where as previously he commented that she was admitted with acute coronary 
syndrome (of which NSTEMI is one). But Aviva was already aware Mrs R was admitted and 
treated for the symptoms of a heart attack listed in this letter. It also knew that later 
angiograms did not show any significant obstruction, thrombus and only 10% plaque. 
For these reasons, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to decide the June 2019 and 
September 2019 letters didnt change anything.
The March 2021 letter from Mrs Rs GP does categorically state that Mrs Rs diagnosis was 
acute myocardial infarction which I think is material new information which has the potential 
to make the claim payable. But because Aviva believes the diagnosis suggested in this letter 
is incorrect, it doesnt find the letter persuasive. So, Ive considered whether this is fair.
It is of note that the letter is brief and provides no context or explanation for the diagnosis it 
gives  so it isnt clear what evidence the GP has relied on to make this statement. 
Mrs R has told us her GP wrote to the cardiologist and that these communications informed 
the letter. Mrs R has also highlighted that her GP is a qualified medical professional who 
wouldnt have made these statements if they werent confident of them. Id agree that the 
GPs qualifications add some weight to their evidence. But there is nothing to support 
Mrs Rs account that the GPs statement is based on recent communications from the 
cardiologist. Ultimately, I think its reasonable for Aviva to place more weight on the evidence 
directly from the relevant consultants here who have greater expertise in this area of 
medicine. Mrs Rs GP isnt a cardiologist and this letter appears to reach a definitive 
diagnosis that the previous claims investigation, and our ombudsmans decision, found the 
relevant consultants did not make. The letter has also been written many years after the 
event in question and makes no reference to new evidence. Taking all of this into account, I 
think its reasonable for Aviva to decide its claims decision remains unchanged on the basis 
of this letter, as the letter is not particularly persuasive in light of the other available 
evidence.I appreciate Mrs R has stressed that there is nothing in her policy about there being a final 
diagnosis. But as outlined above, I cannot comment on issues already addressed in the 
previous ombudsmans decision or review what the previous ombudsman decided. My role 
here is to look at whether Avivas decision not to pay her claim in light of the new evidence 
shes provided is fair. And whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment for Mrs R, I 
think it is.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman