DRN-3488129
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Sanlam Wealth 
provided unsuitable advice in recommending a whole of life Merchant Investors Money 
Programme.
What happened
Mr G was recommended to take out a whole of life policy in 1989. The adviser who 
recommended the policy worked for a business that has now been acquired by Sanlam 
Wealth and it has taken on responsibility for the sale of the policy. Although the policy was 
later written in trust, it was re-assigned to Mr G before it was surrendered in January 2005.
Mr G, who is represented by a claims management company (CMC), complained to Sanlam 
Wealth that the policy was unsuitable for his needs and that the adviser hadnt considered a 
shorter-term policy with an extension option that would have produced a greater return due 
to its lower charges.
Initially Sanlam Wealth thought the complaint had been made out of time and Mr G brought 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into 
things and thought Mr Gs complaint had been made in time. Sanlam Wealth then gave 
consent for the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider the complaint, but said that it 
didnt uphold the complaint made by Mr G.
The Investigator considered the evidence provided and thought the complaint should be 
upheld. To put things right, the Investigator thought that Sanlam Wealth should pay Mr G 
redress based on what it is more likely he would have done at the time.
Sanlam Wealth didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Sanlam Wealth will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why and also what 
I consider to be a fair and reasonable remedy. 
Theres no dispute that at the time of the sale Mr G was single, employed and had no 
dependents. The fact-find recorded Mr Gs objectives were travel, family, children, a car, and 
noted that Mr G intended to go back to his home country in 20 years. At the time Mr G held 
£9,000 savings in building society or bank accounts. 
Sanlam Wealth says that the policy fulfilled Mr Gs need to save for the longer term and 
there is nothing to suggest otherwise. Ive noted this comment, but in my opinion, this 
supports Mr Gs primary goal was for savings and not life cover. 
Sanlam Wealth added that its possible for more than one product to be suitable for a 
consumer based on their circumstances. And, whilst a shorter original term could also be 
suitable, that doesnt mean the product sold to Mr G was unsuitable - and it doesnt think the 
reduced charges alone is enough to uphold the complaint. Ive seen the fact-find records that 
the objective of the policy was to cater for 20 years capital creation. The whole of life policy 
Sanlam Wealth recommended included an element of life cover, the cost of which was 
deducted from the investment fund within the policy. As Mr G got older, the cost of this life 
cover would likely increase, and I consider this is an important consideration as it would 
impact the amount being invested for long term savings. In my opinion, this makes the whole 
of life policy recommended unsuitable for Mr G at the time, regardless of whether or not a 
shorter-term investment programme had been considered.
Im persuaded that Mr G most likely wanted to save for the objectives agreed in 1989, but I 
can see he held all of his savings at this time in cash. Theres nothing recorded within the 
fact-find to support Sanlam Wealth discussed investment risk Mr G and its not possible for 
me to say precisely how Mr G would have invested his savings. However, in considering 
what is a suitable remedy in this case, Ive decided its more likely than not Mr G wouldnt 
have wanted to take any risk with his savings at the time and wouldnt have invested in a unit 
linked fund.  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close to the position 
he would probably now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice. Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of Mr G at the time of 
the sale and it takes into account the policy was G surrendered in 2005. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited, trading 
as Sanlam Wealth should pay Mr G compensation based on the following calculations:
A = the contributions invested up to the date of surrender
B = a return on each contribution at Bank of England base rate compounded yearly from
      the date it was paid to the date of surrender
C = the surrender value of the policy in January 2005
D = A+B  C representing the investment loss at the date of surrender if any
Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Sanlam Wealth should pay Mr G simple 
interest of 8% per year on D, if any compensation is payable, from the date of surrender to 
the date compensation is paid.
Compensation for capital growth on the contributions in B is not usually subject to income 
tax. However, if Sanlam Wealth considers that tax is payable on the interest, it should send a 
tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr G may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM 
Revenue and Customs if his tax status allows him to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman