DRN-4320079
The complaint
Miss F complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim against her 
travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In outline, in June 2022, Miss F bought an annual travel insurance policy 
underwritten by IPA. In March 2023, whilst on a trip, Miss F fell and injured her ankle. 
On 23 March 2023, Miss F contacted IPA in order to make a claim against her policy. 
IPA arranged alternative accommodation for Miss F for 25 March 2023 but the first 
accommodation it arranged wasnt suitable because of Miss Fs impaired mobility. IPA 
instructed Miss F to travel to the airport on 25 March 2023 and attempt to board her 
planned departure flight but subsequently arranged further alternative accommodation 
for her. 
On 26 March 2023, Miss F attended the hospital and obtained a fit to fly certificate. IPA 
extended her accommodation booking and arranged a repatriation flight for Miss F, 
departing on 31 March 2023. Miss F arrived back in the UK on 1 April 2023.    
Miss F complained, in summary, about IPAs initial lack of urgency and focus, its delay in 
arranging additional accommodation, the inaccessible alternative accommodation it first 
arranged for her, its unreasonable request for her to travel to the airport for her planned 
departure flight, the uncertainty about accommodation, the lack of consideration about 
repatriation flights and communication failings. 
In response to Miss Fs complaint, IPA upheld it in part and offered compensation of 
£225. Miss F didnt think that IPAs offer reflected the severity of the impact its errors had 
on her and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He recommended that IPA  
increase the compensation to £350. The investigator said that, overall, from                    
23 March 2023 to 1 April 2023, IPA didnt keep Miss F sufficiently informed, which 
caused her additional stress and worry. He also said that IPA didnt provide sufficient 
support to Miss F throughout her claim.
IPA accepted the investigators recommendation, but Miss F didnt. She didnt think that 
the investigator had fully or correctly considered all the circumstances. The investigator 
considered what Miss F said but didnt change his view. As there was no agreement 
between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Miss F has also expressed concern about how IPA handled her complaint. Our service can 
only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points 
that Miss F has raised about the handling of her complaint because it isnt a regulated 
activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this was a very worrying time for Miss F. She was injured abroad and, after 
her friend left, she was alone and worried. Miss F has provided lengthy and detailed 
correspondence explaining what happened. I dont comment on every point Miss F has 
made - only the key ones. Thats because this service was set up to provide an informal 
alternative to the courts for consumers who have complaints about business actions, and 
we decide cases with the minimum of formality. But Ive given careful consideration to all of 
the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Its common ground that IPA made errors in dealing with Miss Fs claim. 
 
IPA upheld Miss Fs complaint about its handling of her initial call, agreed that it was 
unreasonable to ask Miss F to attempt to board her original return flight, acknowledged that 
the first alternative accommodation it provided was unsuitable and accepted that there had 
been instances of poor communication. As IPA has accepted shortcomings in these areas, I 
dont repeat the details here. 
IPA didnt uphold the parts of Miss Fs complaint about the destination airport for the 
repatriation flight or the tone of its e-mail correspondence. It didnt address Miss Fs 
concerns about its delay in arranging additional accommodation and the uncertainty about 
her stay in the accommodation being extended. 
I dont think that IPA was at fault in relation to the UK destination of the repatriation flight. 
Whilst Miss F had informed IPA of her preferences, it was only obliged to repatriate Miss F to 
her home address, and it cant necessarily guarantee availability of a preferred UK airport. 
I dont uphold the part of Miss Fs complaint about the tone of IPAs e-mail correspondence. I 
think that the examples Miss F has given dont require any further action on IPAs part for a 
fair and reasonable outcome in this case. 
In cases like this, an insurer cant necessarily repatriate an individual as soon as both parties 
would like  they are constrained by availability issues and may have to make additional 
requests, such as transport assistance, which may take further time to arrange. At the 
relevant time, there was impending industrial action, which may have made things more 
difficult. Having said that, I think that IPA failed to keep Miss F updated about its plans and 
actions in arranging her repatriation flight. 
I dont think that IPA was at fault in the notice it gave to Miss F about her repatriation flight. 
Miss F says that IPA gave her around six hours notice of the flight, which I think was 
sufficient for her to pack and travel to the airport. I appreciate that Miss F was concerned 
about her onward travel and subsequent care arrangements, but IPA isnt responsible for 
those issues.  
IPA didnt deal with arranging additional accommodation for Miss F in a timely way. I think 
its reasonable to expect IPA to address Miss Fs accommodation issues before the 
expiration of her planned stay at her accommodation. Similarly, IPA should have dealt with 
extending its previous booking of additional accommodation before Miss F was required to 
check-out. I uphold the parts of Miss Fs complaint about delays in arranging and re-booking 
additional accommodation.
 So, IPA gave Miss F poor service when she first made contact to make a claim, delayed 
arranging alternative accommodation, arranged unsuitable accommodation in the first 
instance, acted unreasonably when it asked Miss F to attempt to board her original return 
flight, delayed in re-booking accommodation and didnt keep Miss F updated about its plans 
and actions.  
IPAs handling of Miss Fs claim caused her additional distress and inconvenience at a time 
when she was vulnerable. Ive noted what Miss F says about this. It was particularly stressful 
to be left waiting for confirmation of alternative accommodation as her friend was about to 
leave and to arrive at unsuitable alternative accommodation. Miss F was distressed at IPAs 
unreasonable request to attempt to board her planned return flight and was embarrassed to 
become distressed in a public place. Once Miss F was in suitable alternative 
accommodation she was worried by IPAs delay in re-booking it for her on more than one 
occasion. 
Considering everything, I think that compensation of £350 is fair and reasonable in this case. 
In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by IPAs errors. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, IPA should pay Miss F compensation of £350 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should put 
things right as indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman