DRN-2929715
The complaint
Miss C complains about a personal loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G). She said that L2G had lent to her irresponsibly. She also said that she 
didnt receive information about the cost of the loan until after shed received the loan.
What happened
Miss C was given one loan by L2G on 10 July 2020. The loan was repayable by 18 monthly 
payments of £114.28. The loan hasnt been repaid.  
Miss C said that she had applied to L2G for a loan subject to how much it would cost each 
month and the loan term. After applying she got a message to say she owed 18 payments of 
£114.28. This totalled £2,057.04 to borrow £500. She said that L2G should have let her 
know how much was payable first before completing the loan as she couldnt afford to pay 
18 payments of £114.28. Miss C would have chosen not to take the loan had she been 
aware of this. Miss C said that L2G took her details and within five minutes agreed the
loan. L2G then sent her the costs associated with the loan after completing it which wasnt 
acceptable. Miss C said that this was an act of irresponsible lending and queried how L2G 
would know if she could afford or even wanted to take this loan if it hadnt provided the 
monthly costs to her beforehand
In its final response letter, L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability 
assessment prior to approving the loan. It considered Miss Cs declared income which it 
verified via an income verification tool and it also reviewed Miss Cs credit file. L2G noted 
that Miss C declared her monthly income as £1,500. It verified that she received a minimum 
amount of £1,415.40 monthly via an online income verification tool. L2G said that Miss C 
declared her monthly expenditure and credit commitments to total £350. However, following 
an extensive review of her application, in addition to her credit file, it calculated them to total 
£1,151.02. L2G also added a buffer of 10% to Miss Cs verified expenditure to account for 
any fluctuations in her monthly income or expenditure, even after which, her contractual loan 
repayment of £114.28 would have still been affordable. L2G said it took into consideration all 
the available information whilst calculating the affordability of the loan taken out with it, and it  
determined that Miss C had enough disposable income to afford her contractual instalments.
L2G also said that before the funds were paid into Miss Cs bank account, she would have 
been required to read, agree and sign the loan agreement. The loan term, the number of 
monthly payments Miss C would need to make and the total amount that would be payable 
to L2G if the borrowing was to be kept for the full term was clearly stated on the Pre-Contract 
Credit Information as well as the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement which Miss C had signed.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
L2G had asked for Miss Cs monthly income and outgoings and confirmed her income using 
an online verification tool. It also carried out a credit check. The adjudicator said that the 
credit check didnt reveal anything of concern, and she didnt think L2G needed to carry out 
any further assessment of Miss Cs circumstances because the checks it did carry out were 
adequate.
With regard to the second aspect of Miss Cs complaint, the adjudicator had asked L2G for 
information about its application process and she had been provided with screenshots of the 
process. She said that the final stages of the online application process required Miss C to 
tick a box confirming she had read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the loan, and 
these terms and conditions were listed on the same page under a separate tab. The box was 
ticked and L2G had provided this Service with a copy of the signed loan agreement. The 
adjudicator said that a signed copy of the loan agreement was emailed and a text containing 
the payment schedule was sent to the respective email address and phone number Miss C 
had supplied to this service when lodging her complaint. The adjudicator also noted that the 
loan agreement contained a right to withdraw from the credit agreement before the end of  
14 days beginning with the day after the day on which the agreement was made. So, she 
couldnt say that Miss C shouldnt have reasonably been aware of the terms of the loan. Or 
that L2G was at fault in the way the loan application was presented to Miss C.
Miss C disagreed and said that she didnt know what the repayments were and had to spend 
ages digging to find out what the payments breakdown was. She assumed that L2G would 
provide this information before applying. She also provided this Service with some reviews of 
L2G from a customer service review website and said she couldnt find a nice review.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to L2G on 15 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Miss C had referred to reviews about L2G on customer service review 
websites.  But, whilst Id noted that Miss C had referred to the reviews shed seen being 
negative, Id needed to consider what had happened in Miss Cs individual case. So, the 
reviews from others about L2G would not have influenced my opinion here.
Id dealt with each aspect of Miss Cs complaint separately.
Irresponsible lending
When L2G lent to Miss C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Miss Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that 
L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Miss C wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Miss C of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Miss Cs ability to make repayments under the agreement 
as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which had to be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Cs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
The loan was for £500. The interest rate was 207.6% (1,013.2% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £114.28. If Miss C made each payment 
when it was due, shed pay £2,057.04 in total.
L2G gathered some information from Miss C about her income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before the loan. The lender would have been aware from 
these that Miss C wasnt in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, she wasnt bankrupt and 
there were no county court judgements against her. There were also no defaulted accounts 
in the six months prior to the loan application. 
But, L2G would also likely have seen on its credit checks that Miss C had six active 
accounts. Miss Cs credit card balance of £2,344 was £144 over its credit limit. There was a 
payment in arrears on another credit card which had occurred just three months before the 
loan application. Miss Cs current account was overdrawn. Altogether, Id thought the checks 
showed that Miss Cs finances might be strained, despite her relatively large declared 
disposable income. 
I was also aware that a lenders credit checks might not reveal the full extent of a borrowers 
credit commitments. I could see from L2Gs final response letter that it was also aware of 
this. In her application Miss C had declared a monthly income of £1,500, which L2G said it 
verified as £1,415.40, and total expenses of £350 including £250 spent on credit 
commitments. It seems that L2G had considered the amount spent by Miss C on living costs 
to be low as it had increased these to £624.96 on the basis of statistical data. It had also 
increased her declared credit commitments. L2G assessed Miss Cs credit commitments and 
living costs to total £1,151.02. It also added a 10% buffer to account for any fluctuations in 
her income or expenditure. So, I could see that L2G wasnt confident in the income and 
expenditure amounts declared by Miss C.
I also thought L2G might have been concerned as to why someone with a relatively large 
amount of available income (according to Miss Cs declared income and expenses) would 
need to borrow expensive credit. L2G was aware that Miss Cs declared income and 
expenses left her with a declared disposable income of £1,150. I had to question just why it 
was thought that Miss C needed to borrow £500 on such disadvantageous terms if she had 
a declared monthly disposable income in excess of this amount. 
I could see that L2Gs analysis of Miss Cs income and expenditure showed discrepancies 
between its checks and the amounts shed declared which were significantly wide. I 
appreciated that L2G had said that it used a higher expenditure figure and a lower income 
figure. But I wasnt satisfied that L2Gs checks went far enough here. Id thought there was 
enough from what it had found on its checks for it to have taken its checks further. Miss C 
was entering into an expensive loan agreement. The loan was running for 18 months. Given 
the length of time Miss C was committing to repay the credit and what L2G had found on its 
checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for L2G to get a clear picture of Miss Cs 
finances at the time and for it to be confident that Miss C could repay the loan without having 
to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any contractual or statutory 
payments and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation. 
L2G was required to establish whether Miss C could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Miss C, asking for copies of bills and/or 
receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more information about her existing credit 
commitments. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this, other than to verify Miss Cs 
income using an online income verification tool. So overall, I didnt think the checks L2G had 
carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
Although I didnt think that L2G had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
the loan, that in itself didn't mean that Miss Cs complaint about the loan should succeed. I 
also needed to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have 
shown L2G that Miss C couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id asked the adjudicator to 
ask Miss C for her credit report and bank statements to see what better checks would have 
shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
As Id said above, our adjudicator asked Miss C for copies of her bank statements and credit 
report so we could see what better checks would have shown L2G. She didnt provide these 
to us. So, I didnt have enough to say what L2G would have seen if it had made better 
checks. And it followed that I wasnt able to say that better checks would have shown L2G 
that it shouldnt have lent to Miss C. So, I said that I didnt intend to uphold this aspect of 
Miss Cs complaint. Id also said that if Miss C was able to provide the bank statements and credit report wed 
already requested from her in response to this decision, I would reconsider this aspect of her 
complaint. 
Information about the costs of the loan
Id noted that Miss C had said that she didnt receive information about the costs of the loan 
until after completion.
Id asked the adjudicator to ask L2G for information about the time that Miss C signed the 
loan agreement. L2G responded with this and more information about its application 
process.
L2G said that it had required Miss C to read, agree and sign the loan agreement prior to 
being provided with the funds. A signed copy of the loan agreement was provided to her at 
the start of the loan. This was emailed to the email address that Miss C supplied when she 
made the application. A SMS text message was also sent to the mobile number that shed 
provided confirming the payment schedule.
L2G said Miss C was provided with, and signed, the pre-contract credit information about the 
loan on 10 July 2020. It set out information about the loan including the amount borrowed, 
total amount repayable, rate of interest and the interest amount charged, term of the loan, 
monthly repayment amount and number of repayments, as well as Miss Cs right to withdraw 
from the loan. L2G also said that the loan agreement, which Miss C also signed, contained 
the same information about the loan. Just above the signature section (of the loan 
agreement), it said:
Read full agreement, including Terms of the Agreement, before signing. This is a Credit 
Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally 
bound by its terms.
L2G said that as both documents set out the relevant information, it was satisfied that it 
made Miss C sufficiently aware of what she needed to pay each month, and for how long, 
before she decided to proceed with the loan. So, L2G couldnt agree that Miss C didnt 
receive details of the loan agreement before receiving the funds.
With regard to the time line, L2G said that the loan application was created by Miss C on    
10 July 2020 at 1.04 pm, it was signed at 1.07pm and the funds were provided at 1.13pm on 
the same day.
Id asked the adjudicator to ask Miss C if shed received the loan agreement to sign before 
shed received the loan money, and if so did she sign it and send it back to the lender 
before shed received the money? Miss C didnt respond to this query.
Id reviewed the information about L2Gs process. I could see that at the final stage of the 
process, the borrower was told to read all the information and tick a box to acknowledge that 
the borrower had read and understood what was expected of them. The borrower was also 
told to print the page for reference. Id noted that the information to be read included the pre-
contract information, the terms of the agreement and the loan agreement. Having seen 
copies of the pre-contract information and the loan agreement, Id noted that they contained 
information about the amount of the loan repayments, the number of repayments and the 
interest rate.I could also see that by the tick box on the final stage page, it said Please indicate that you 
have read and agree to the terms and conditions of this agreement and have had the 
opportunity to ask for an explanation of anything you dont understand.
I also noted that the borrower was told to type in their surname and to press the I accept 
button which was to have the same effect as it the Loan Agreement had been signed in the 
borrowers handwriting. 
It appeared from L2Gs process that a borrower was given the relevant information about the 
loan repayments as they were provided with the loan agreement and pre-contract 
information which contained this information before the loan was provided. I also noted that 
the borrower was told to read the information and to tick the box to acknowledge that the 
information had been read before the loan was provided. So overall, I couldnt safely say that 
Miss C wasnt provided with information about her loan repayments before the loan. 
So, subject to any further representations by Miss C or L2G my provisional decision was that 
I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
Miss C hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
L2G hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Miss C and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman