DRN-1747256
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited have mishandled her legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Ageas use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy on their behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I appreciate that Mrs T first made her claim on 28 June 2019, and that it wasnt until 
some three months later that Firm I said they could not take her case on due to issues 
relating to the limitation period. However, I can see that Ageas instructed Firm I on 29 
July 2019  which was only one week after receiving the full claim file. It was then Firm I 
that took two months to say they could not take on the case, but Ageas are not 
responsible for the acts or omissions of the solicitors they appoint, and I can see that 
they did chase the solicitors for a response. So I cannot fairly hold them liable for the 
time it took for Mrs T to first be told that her appointed solicitors would not be able to take 
on her case. 
Ageas then took further steps to try and find an alternative panel solicitor that would take 
the case despite the limitation period fast approaching, which I think was a reasonable 
course of action for them to take in order to provide Mrs T with the assistance she had 
requested under the policy. But if no firms were willing to take the case, that is not 
something the insurer can fairly be held responsible for. And I note that this could have 
ultimately been avoided had Mrs T not left it so close to the limitation date to commence 
her claim. In any event, Ageas has agreed to consider funding Mrs Ts legal expenses 
for her claim if she can find a solicitor that is willing to take on her case  thereby giving 
her freedom of choice. So Im satisfied they are fulfilling their obligations under the policy 
by doing so.
Mrs T says she had not been told that Ageas was contacting other panel firms to see if 
they would take her case. Ageas dispute this and say they did keep her updated in this 
regard, on calls made on 26 September 2019 (and a voicemail left on 30 September 
2019) as well as in emails sent on 1 October 2019 and 11 December 2019. I appreciate 
Mrs T would have liked to have been kept fully informed. However, even if Ageas had 
not told her of each and every firm they were in contact with, I do not consider there to 
have been any detriment or prejudice caused by this as they were ultimately taking this 
action to further Mrs Ts claim, so it is not something I consider would warrant an award 
of compensation in any event. 
I also understand that Mrs T was not happy with the advice she received on the legal 
helpline. But this helpline is intended to assist people with generic legal advice  not 
specific litigation advice  as this falls to the domain of solicitors that have a thorough 
understanding of the circumstances of the case and all the matters at hand. So I do not 
think Ageas have failed to provide the legal helpline service that is promised by the 
policy. And in any event, Mrs Ts complaint here appears to relate to the quality of legal 
advice she received, which falls outside the remit of this service to consider given that it 
was provided by a firm of solicitors rather than Ageas themselves.
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Mrs T, but based on the evidence Ive seen Im 
not persuaded that Ageas can fairly be held responsible for the distress and inconvenience 
she has suffered in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman