DRN-2913814
The complaint
Mr C1 complains that MCE Insurance Limited cancelled his motorcycle insurance policy and 
offered him a new one at a higher price. He wants compensation for the financial losses this 
caused. Mr C1 is represented in this matter by his father, Mr C2. 
What happened
Mr C1 took out a policy with MCE, paid for by Mr C2. Due to system problems, MCE were 
unable to send Mr C1 his policy documents. After two months, the policy was cancelled, and 
MCE charged Mr C1 just for his time on cover and it paid a refund of the remainder of his 
payments. It then offered Mr C1 a new policy at a higher price. Mr C1 couldnt afford this and 
he found cover elsewhere, also at a higher price. He complained to MCE who refunded the 
premiums in full. But Mr C2 thought MCE should pay the difference in premiums for the new 
policy and compensate Mr C1 for the loss of his No Claims Bonus (NCB) for two months.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought MCE 
had provided Mr C1 with poor service. But he thought its redress, which was two months of 
free cover, was sufficient compensation for the impact the error had on Mr C1. He didnt 
think it was responsible for the premiums set by the insurer. 
Mr C2 replied that the loss of two months NCB was detrimental to Mr C1. He asked for an 
ombudsmans review. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MCE said that it changed its systems and, due to an error, Mr C1s policy wasnt set up 
correctly and it was unable to correct this. So it was no longer able to keep the policy active 
and it had no other option but to cancel the policy and offer Mr C1 a new one. 
I think Mr C1 received a poor level of service from MCE. He didnt receive his policy 
documents. He had no response to his attempts to contact MCE due to high call and email 
volumes. And then he had to find cover elsewhere. 
When a business makes a mistake, as MCE accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr C1 said the impact, in summary was:
He spent time on webchats trying to contact MCE to get his policy documents, but 
without any response.
He lost two months NCB entitlement.
He had to pay for more expensive cover elsewhere and was without cover for four days. 
I think he was also caused avoidable worry and upset by the cancellation. 
To restore Mr C1s position, I would expect MCE to ensure that Mr C1 wasnt adversely 
affected by the cancellation. As the cancellation wasnt due to any error caused by Mr C1, I 
would expect that this wouldnt be recorded on any internal or external databases and that 
Mr C1 need not disclose this to any future insurer. If he wants confirmation of this, I think 
MCE should provide him with a letter confirming this. 
MCE isnt responsible for the premiums set by insurers. So I cant say that MCE should 
compensate Mr C1 for having to pay more for his cover elsewhere.
MCE initially said it would charge Mr C1 just for his time on cover and refund him the 
remainder hed paid in premiums and a deposit. When Mr C1 complained, MCE provided 
him with a full refund. The amount refunded meant that Mr C1 had, in effect, about two 
months cover for free. 
I think this offer restores Mr C1s position and compensates him sufficiently for the impact 
caused by its error, his time spent, avoidable stress and loss of two months NCB. The level 
of redress is in keeping with our published guidance, so I think its fair and reasonable. And 
so I dont require MCE to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman