DRN-4207453
The complaint
Ms H complains as a director of G (a limited company) that The New India Assurance 
Company Limited rejected a claim on Gs Care Homes Insurance policy relating to a loss of 
its registration and complains about the way the claim was handled.
Where Ive referred to New India this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
G operated a care home for elderly residents. It had a Care Homes policy underwritten by 
New India which it took out in July 2016 and renewed each year until the policy was 
cancelled in November 2018 with effect from 28 September 2018.
The Care Quality Commission (CQC) carried out inspections at the home in May and June 
2018. Following this the CQC issued a Notice of Proposal, proposing to cancel the homes 
registration. 
Around the same time, the Local Authority gave notice of termination of its contract with the 
home and started moving the authority-funded residents to other care homes. In September 
2018 the CQC issued a Notice of Decision under which the home would lose its registration. 
G opposed the cancellation and appealed to the First Tier Tribunal. 
In December 2018 G made a claim on its policy through its insurance broker. New India 
asked the broker to provide further information to support the claim.
Gs appeal to the Tribunal was unsuccessful. It has sought to appeal through the higher 
courts without success. G is no longer operating the care home and is in administration.
G made a complaint about the way New India was dealing with the claim which was referred 
to this Service and a final decision was issued in  November 2022. In their decision the 
Ombudsman said New India hadnt declined the claim but had said it couldnt make a 
decision without further information from G. The ombudsman said New India should consider 
any further information G wished to provide to support its claim.
G provided further information concerning the basis for the CQCs decision to cancel the 
registration, including evidence presented on appeal at the Tribunal hearing. Based on this 
information, New India declined indemnity saying the conditions for cover had not been met.
G complained about the decision. In its final response letter New India confirmed its position. 
G remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said: 
The policy provided cover where the registration was lost due to a cause beyond the 
policyholders control.
It was reasonable for New India to take account of the Tribunals findings, and to 
conclude that G had had an opportunity to address the failings identified by the CQC 
and had failed to do so. 
New India has shown that G didnt meet the conditions about notification of the claim. 
But even if it had, the loss of registration was from a cause within Gs control and so 
it had failed to meet that condition of cover.
When New India received further information from G it reviewed this in a reasonable 
time and there were no avoidable delays.
G disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Ms H has provided detailed 
comments in support of that request. I wont set them out in full but in brief, they include:
The investigators view is based on incorrect assumptions that 
oall statutory breaches are serious and lead to a loss of registration; and
othe issue of a Notice of Proposal indicates serious statutory breaches, leading 
inevitably to a Notice of Decision and loss of registration.
A Notice of Proposal has a very low bar and no serious consequences whereas a 
Notice of Decision has a very high bar. The Tribunal inserted its own allegations to 
ensure the CQCs burden of proof had been discharged.
The Tribunal ignored most of their evidence and treated everything in the Notice of 
Proposal as being admitted. And the Court of Appeal failed to address these issues,  
simply repeating the Tribunals findings of fact rather than addressing errors of law. 
They are now going to the European Court of Human Rights. 
New India simply accepted the Tribunals findings and did not deal with all the 
arguments. The insurers role should not be to assess the breaches of statutory 
obligations but to consider how G had used the policy.
G did everything it could to prevent the closure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has provided lengthy and detailed submissions. I appreciate how serious the matter is 
for her but I wont address every point in detail. Were an informal dispute resolution service 
and our role is to provide an impartial review of a case, quickly and with minimal formality. 
My role is to use my judgement to decide what is fair, based on the main crux of a case. So I 
have only commented on what I consider is relevant to the outcome I have reached.
Insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly, provide reasonable guidance to help 
a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and not 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover for a variety of risks but the relevant section of the policy for this 
complaint is section 12 - Loss of Registration Certificate. This section says 
The Insurer will
(a) pay or make good the depreciation in the value of your interest in the Premises
(b) pay all costs and expenses incurred with its prior written consent in connection with any 
appeal against the forfeiture of or refusal to renew the registration certificate.
If the registration certificate granted for you to carry on the business as stated at the 
Premises is:
(a) forfeited under the provisions of the legislation governing such certificate(b) refused renewal by the appropriate authority at the time of renewal
during the period of insurance from a cause beyond your control.
Its a condition of Section 12 that the policyholder will give notice in writing immediately on 
becoming aware of circumstances, including any proceedings being issued or any objection 
to renewal or other circumstances, which may endanger the registration certificate or its 
renewal. And the policyholder must supply such information and give such assistance as the 
insurer may reasonably require.
So G is covered if it suffers a loss as a result of losing its registration, but only if the loss is 
due to something outside its control. And this is subject to a claim being made immediately 
in circumstances that might lead to this happening./ and to providing any information 
reasonably required to consider the claim.
In the course of this complaint, Ms H has referred to the whole history of the matter going 
back to 2018. However, we have previously considered a complaint about how the claim 
was dealt with and another ombudsman issued a decision on that complaint in November 
2022. As a final decision has been issued I cant comment on anything that has already 
been considered. The focus of this complaint is whats happened since that decision and 
whether New India was entitled to reject the claim.
Following the previous decision, G provided information to New India and, having considered 
that information, New India said it would not provide cover. This is on the basis the loss of 
registration was due to issues within Gs control. New India also says G breached the 
requirement to notify a claim immediately.
G was aware of issues that might give rise to a claim after the inspections in May and June 
2018, and certainly by August, but didnt notify New India until the December. So it didnt 
comply with the requirement to inform New India immediately. That doesnt necessarily 
mean this breach would allow New India to reject the claim if the delay didnt make any 
difference. But in any event I think theres a more fundamental reason why New India was 
entitled to reject the claim.
The policy only provides cover if the loss of registration is due to something outside Gs 
control. Thats the crux of the matter - if it happened because of something that was in Gs 
control then theres no cover.
Ms H has provided very detailed arguments about this. Ive considered all the points she 
makes but Im not persuaded by them. 
She has said it cant be right that just because the CQC registration has been withdrawn 
liability can be repudiated automatically, when the insurance policy in question is specifically 
for the loss of registration. A claim wouldnt automatically be rejected simply because of a 
loss of registration and there would be circumstances where cover would be provided  for 
example where the home has to give up its registration due to some unforeseen event that 
means it cant continue. But not if the withdrawal is due to something within the 
policyholders control. 
Ms H says they did everything they could to prevent the loss of registration happening. I 
agree G tried very hard to avoid it  opposing the notice and appealing to the Tribunal. It put 
together detailed evidence and made submissions about all the steps taken to try and keep 
the registration. This included making changes in working practices and engaging a 
company that provides expert consultant services to turn around care homes in difficulty. I 
dont doubt that strenuous efforts were made. But ultimately, the home lost its registration because the Tribunal didnt accept the steps G 
had taken should allow it to continue; the Tribunal noted that Ms H and the other directors 
had done their best but their best wasnt enough.
Ms H has set out in great detail why she thinks the Tribunals decision was flawed and why it 
wouldnt be fair for New India to rely on it. 
G sought to overturn the decision through the appeals process and ultimately sought 
permission to appeal to the Court of Appeal, but this was refused. The appeal judges 
reasoning referred to the Tribunals careful analysis of the evidence and said the suggestion 
that the Tribunal had excluded Gs evidence was demonstrably incorrect. The judge 
concluded that the appeal had no real prospects of success. G applied to re-open the refusal 
of permission to appeal but the appeal judge refused the application, saying it didnt identify 
any discrete errors of law and simply reargued the case on the facts. The judge said even if 
the Tribunal was wrong on the facts, there was no error of law.
It's not for me to decide whether the loss of registration was correct, or to challenge the 
findings of the Tribunal or the appeal courts. What I need to decide is whether New Indias 
decision was fair in the circumstances. Its reasonable for New India to take into account 
what the Tribunal and the courts concluded. The Tribunal had the opportunity to consider all 
of the evidence and hear witness evidence. The conclusion reached was that G had been 
made aware of the issues and had the opportunity to put things right but hadnt done so. In 
light of that, it was reasonable for New India to conclude these were things that were in Gs 
control and there was a direct connection between Gs actions and the removal of the 
registration. So it could reject the claim on that basis.
The policy terms require G to supply such information and give such assistance as New 
India may reasonably require. Thats in line with the general position that in the first instance, 
its for a policyholder to prove their claim. So the starting point is that G has to prove it has 
suffered a loss thats covered by the policy. Once G has provided the information New India 
needs to consider the claim, it can then make a decision. 
New India had asked for all correspondence between G and CQC. Gs solicitors contacted 
New India in November 2022, after the previous Ombudsmans decision was issued. The 
Ombudsman said it was reasonable for New India to consider its position had been 
communicated to G, and if G wanted it to consider its claim, it was for G to provide copies of 
the correspondence with CQC as requested. 
G asked New India what information it required. On 7 December 2022 New India declined 
the claim. I appreciate New India hadnt replied to G confirming the information it needed. 
But New India had previously said it needed to see all the correspondence between the 
CQC and G and the previous Ombudsmans decision confirmed this. So G should 
reasonably have been aware it needed to provide that. 
G provided information in February 2023 and when New India received this, it reviewed it to 
see whether it changed its decision. Thats what Id expect it to do. After considering the 
information New India said the claim would not be covered.
As G was unhappy with the decision, Ms H pursued a complaint. New Indias decision didnt 
set out the referral rights to this Service as clearly as it should have, but G was made aware 
it could come to us (and of course, had done so previously). Overall, I think New India dealt 
with the claim reasonably after November 2022 and wasnt responsible for any unreasonable 
delay. Ms H may have found it frustrating to have to make a fresh complaint to New India 
and then refer it to this service. But as things had moved on since the previous complaint and there were fresh issues to be considered, that was the appropriate way to proceed.
I know this has been very difficult for the directors of G ever since the inspections in 2018; it 
has been a slow process with a great deal at stake for them. But I cant reconsider issues 
dealt within the previous Ombudsmans decision and for the reasons set out above, Im 
satisfied the claim was ultimately dealt with in a reasonable way and the decision to refuse 
cover was in line with the policy terms and was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman