DRN-3969343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about their motor insurer Aviva Insurance Limited as they 
believe it gave them an inferior courtesy car when their car was damaged in an accident and 
was being repaired.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G arranged cover with Aviva in 2019. They recalled taking extra cover to get a 
like-for-like courtesy car in the event their car was damaged and in need of repair. 
In October 2021 their car did need repair under the policy. Aviva arranged for a small 3-door 
car for Mr and Mrs G to use, the type which comes as standard on its policy. That was then 
amended and a 5-door car was provided. Mr and Mrs G were unhappy as this still was not 
like their 2-litre SUV type vehicle. Aviva said this was in-line with what was offered under the 
policy and that it had never told Mr and Mrs G that, with extra cover, theyd be entitled to a 
like-for-like car. 
Aviva though did accept there had been some service failings. It offered £100 compensation. 
It also answered a concern Mr and Mrs G had raised about the engine size of the 5-door car 
theyd been loaned. They said it was smaller than that provided on the policy  just over a 
litre as opposed to 1.6l. They believed a larger engine size would have meant a larger car. 
Aviva noted its policy did state a car with a 1.6l engine would be provided. It said this was an 
oversight in updating the policy with current engine sizes, where new technology means 
manufacturers can offer the same power output for a reduced sized engine. Mr and Mrs G 
remained unhappy and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator considered call notes and listened to conversations Mr and Mrs G had with 
Aviva, and couldnt find a discussion about the extra courtesy car cover. He didnt think 
Aviva had misled them. Nor did he think the engine size listed in the policy was material to 
the outcome of the complaint  a 1.6l engine wouldnt necessarily mean a larger car, and the 
issue at the heart of the matter for Mr and Mrs G had always been that they wanted a 
courtesy car like the car they had and they werent entitled to that on the policy. For the 
service issues accepted by Aviva  the standard car initially being provided and some 
difficulty for Mr G in speaking to its operatives  our Investigator felt £100 compensation was 
fair and reasonable. So he wasnt minded to make it do anything more.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy. They said they had been told by Aviva that the extra cover 
would entitle them to a like-for-like courtesy car. They maintained that a 1.6l engine car 
would have been bigger and the smaller car (albeit 5-door) theyd been loaned was 
uncomfortable to drive, causing leg pain. They said Aviva had downgraded the car available 
to them because the accident had been their fault. Mr and Mrs G said if they have to follow 
what the policy documents say, then so should Aviva. Their complaint was passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G feel let down by Aviva. But, having considered everything Im 
not persuaded that its treated them unfairly or unreasonably.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs G believe they were told the extra cover was on a like-for-like basis. 
But there is no evidence to support their belief which shows they came to that view because 
of something Aviva told them. Its not reflected in any of the calls Aviva has found (the dates 
and times of which our Investigator has shared with Mr and Mrs G). And its not what the 
policy documents say  copies of which Mr and Mrs G were sent when the policy was 
arranged, and which they had a chance to check.
Mr and Mrs G are correct. They should always try and comply with the policy wording. But 
this service deals with matters on a fair and reasonable basis. As such there are times when 
we wont allow an insurer to rely on a technical breach of the policy wording to decline a 
claim. Mr and Mrs G have identified, and Aviva has accepted, that here there was a 
technical breach (by Aviva) of the policy wording. So Ive considered whether that means 
Aviva should compensate Mr and Mrs G.   
The extra cover detailed in the policy does not say that a like-for-like courtesy car will be 
given. Rather: Five-door vehicle with an engine size of 1.6 litres with room to seat five 
people. As I understand it Aviva provided a five-door car to Mr and Mrs G which had room 
to seat five people. The engine of that car was not 1.6l. Aviva has explained that the policy is 
out of date in this respect because engine sizes have changed. Clearly Mr and Mrs G could 
not have known that. But I cant reasonably require Aviva to provide compensation for this 
error because Mr and Mrs G werent misled by this policy wording. I say that because they 
thought the cover was like-for-like, so they did not rely on the correct policy wording, only to 
suffer a loss of expectation when a car with a smaller sized engine to that detailed in the 
policy was provided. Had Aviva provided a 5-door car, with space for five people, which had 
a 1.6l engine, Mr and Mrs G still would not have had a car like their 2l SUV.
Whilst Mr and Mrs G have said a car with a 1.6l engine would have been bigger, Im not 
persuaded that is necessarily the case. There are some sporty versions of five-door/five 
seater cars, similar in size to that loaned to Mr and Mrs G, which have 1.6l engines. But nor 
have I seen any evidence that the size of the car has caused Mr and Mrs G discomfort/pain 
whilst being driven or due to driving. Im mindful that all cars are different, in terms of comfort 
and driving position. The only sure way to experience no difficulty or difference is to have a 
car like the one chosen, brought and insured. Unfortunately, Mr and Mr G did not have cover 
that would afford that to them.
There is nothing that makes me think Aviva down-graded the cover because this was a 
fault accident. I think what Mr and Mrs G may be getting confused with is a situation where, 
in a non-fault accident, a policyholder is placed in a like-for-like car because the cost for that 
can be claimed from the other insurer/driver as a loss against their policy. It is not something 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy entitles them to, so Aviva has not down-graded them in the instance 
of this fault accident to something less than their extra cover policy entitled them to. 
I understand that the initial incorrect arrangement for provision of the standard courtesy car 
was resolved the same day. Although not without Mr and Mrs G having to make several 
calls. I note their complaint about the courtesy car was not logged as such initially  and 
Aviva has accepted that was a failing on its part, causing Mr and Mrs G the need to contact it 
further. However, I also note that Aviva first issued a final response to this complaint in 
November 2021. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation 
offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable. I know Aviva has asked for Mr and Mrs Gs bank details so it can pay this sum  if Mr and Mrs G want to receive that payment, they should 
provide their bank details to it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Aviva Insurance Limited to provide any further 
redress. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman