DRN-4072334
The complaint
Ms V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt follow her instructions when she 
completed an online application to fix the interest rate on her two mortgage accounts.
What happened
Ms V has a mortgage with Barclays, composed of two loan accounts. On 14 June 2022, Ms 
V says she completed an online application for a two-year fixed rate product to be applied to 
both her accounts. Ms V thought she would get a letter and then was told to check online 
where there were documents. But Ms V says that none of the documents showed what rate 
had been chosen. Ms V rang Barclays because she had chosen a fixed rate and told that the 
payments would change in August but not that she wasnt getting the fixed rate that she 
assumed she had got. Ms V then made a complaint and was told that instead of the fixed 
rate she had got a tracker rate on one account and a variable rate on the other.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Ms V accepted 
the offer that was contained in the mortgage offer document forwarded to her through her 
online banking account dated 14 June 2022 even if it wasnt the rate switch she intended to 
get. Ms V disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms V applied, as she understood it, for a change to a fixed rate product for both her 
mortgage accounts. Ms V applied online rather than wait for an advised appointment with a 
mortgage adviser. But she didnt get a fixed rate. What happened is that the main account 
switched to a two-year tracker rate on 17 July 2022, but the second part didnt switch at all 
but remained on a variable rate. Barclays issued a mortgage offer which, along with other 
documents, it says, was delivered to Ms V through her online banking facility. The mortgage 
offer didnt require formal acceptance rather that Ms V should contact Barclays if she didnt 
wish to proceed with the offer. 
Ms V says that she didnt receive the mortgage offer. Ms V says that she doesnt check on 
her online facility but has sent us a mortgage information sheet (MIS) that she had received 
online. That MIS is dated 14 June 2022 and would indicate that on that date Ms V was 
looking at a tracker mortgage for the main part of her mortgage, which was for borrowing of 
about £42,000 and that the second part of her mortgage for £6,500 was to remain on a 
variable rate. This document is of some significance. In order to proceed to apply for the 
mortgage online, Ms V would have had to have confirmed that the new product she was 
applying for was that contained in the MIS. Ive seen no other MIS, so I must assume that 
the product Ms V wanted was that contained in the MIS which isnt a fixed rate but a tracker 
rate. This is at odds with the phone call that Ms V made before the application with a 
mortgage adviser when her interest is in a fixed rate.
This is puzzling. Ms V says that she wanted a fixed rate, but the evidence is that she applied 
for a tracker rate. Ive considered the possibility of a system defect on the day in question, 
and I asked Barclays whether it was aware of any system issues where a customer had 
selected fixed rates and had tracker rates applied to the mortgage, but it told me it was 
unaware of any. I would have thought that if it was a system error there would be other 
similar cases but there seem to be no other. I understand there was a system issue that 
required Ms V to choose a rate on one account, come out and choose a rate on another 
account. Ms V was unaware of this and so didnt apply for a rate on the second account. But 
thats a different matter than intending to apply for a fixed rate but ending up with a tracker 
rate.
Barclays has also shown me a form called a Mortgage Declaration which Ms V is required to 
sign online before applying for the mortgage. Part of that Declaration reads
You are applying to switch one or more of your existing mortgage accounts to a new 
product. The new product(s) have been explained to you in a mortgage information sheet. 
When you submit your rate switch application you are consenting to us applying the new rate 
to your mortgage account(s).
That Declaration included Ms Vs online signature. The only MIS I have seen is the MIS for 
the tracker rate so that Declaration signed by Ms V tells me that Ms V is consenting to the 
tracker rate. Ms V in her email to us on the 29 April 2023 says that she never saw the MIS. 
But the Declaration that Ms V signs before applying to the offer refers to this MIS so I 
consider it likely that it was available online for Ms V to see before she made that mortgage 
application.
Given that Ms V had the MIS before the application with the tracker rate on it and applied for 
that rate and got a mortgage offer based on that rate, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Barclays made an error by putting her on a rate that she applied for. Ms V says that she 
didnt get the mortgage offer but Barclays has supplied evidence that the mortgage offer was 
uploaded to her online banking for Ms V to access on 14 June 2022. Ms V says that she 
didnt look on her online account, but I would have thought that since she applied to Barclays 
online it would be reasonable for her to have checked online whether the application 
produced a mortgage offer. There is an issue as to whether Ms V suffered financially 
because she wasnt able to change the rate on the second account. But Ms V says that she 
now doesnt want the rate on the first account so presumably wouldnt want that rate if it 
applied to both accounts. 
Ive considered this complaint at length and Im sorry to read that Ms V, because of changes 
to interest rates, is suffering financially as a result. Where the evidence is in dispute as it is 
here I have to decide on the balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive to decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Unfortunately for Ms V the evidence indicates that she did 
indeed apply for the tracker rate that she got. So, I cant fairly say that Barclays was at fault, 
and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman