DRN-2864790
The complaint
Miss J and Mr S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined a claim for 
accidental damage to their footstool.
What happened
In May 2020, Miss J and Mr S made a claim under their extended warranty, which theyd 
taken out at the same time as buying their sofas and footstool in 2016. The claim was for 
accidental damage caused by an air freshener falling on to the footstool.
Ageas considered the claim, but declined it on the grounds that the policy did not provide 
cover for stains. Miss J and Mr S were unhappy about this, and said the damage was not 
simply a stain, as the top layer of the leather had come off as a result of the oil from the air 
freshener burning it away. They also said the retailer had told them at the point of sale that 
the extended warranty covered everything. So Miss J and Mr S complained to Ageas.
Ageas said, in its final response to the complaint, that photos of the damage had been 
inspected by experts who had said the damage could not be described as a burn, which 
wouldve been covered by the policy. It said it would still classify the damage as a stain  for 
which there was no cover. Miss J and Mr S remained unhappy with Ageass response and 
so they referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. She 
said the damage met the requirements of the definition of accidental damage in the policy 
terms, and there was no valid exclusion that had been relied on in declining the claim, so the 
claim should be honoured.
Because Ageas disagreed with our investigators findings, the complaint has now come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ageas has declined the claim on the basis that the damage which occurred was a stain, and 
stains are not covered under the policy terms. So Ive considered what the policy says about 
whats covered and what isnt covered. The warranty provides cover for:  
Accidental damage: The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) not otherwise 
excluded under this policy.
Im satisfied, from this definition, that the claim was for accidental damage covered by the 
policy. This is because Miss J and Mr Ss account of what happened, which is consistent 
with the information they provided on their claim form, is that an air freshener fell from the 
window sill on to the leather footstool. I consider that this incident is most likely to have been 
both sudden and unforeseen. So I think it meets the policy definition of accidental damage.
Ageas has then sought to rely on a limitation of cover, which it says is highlighted in clause 4 
of the policy terms. This says:
4. WHAT IS COVERED
Each cover type described below only applies if you have paid the appropriate premium and 
is shown on the front of this Certificate of Insurance within the section What is Covered.
ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE
Leather: Accidental damage resulting in a:
- Rip or tear;   - Burn;
- Scratch; - Puncture
 - Scuff.
Ageas has said it doesnt need to show its relied on a valid exclusion, as stains are not 
included in the list of whats covered above. But, having looked closely at the photographs of 
the damage provided by Miss J and Mr S, it appears that a layer of leather has either burnt 
off or worn away from exposure to the chemicals in the air freshener. I dont think this can 
reasonably be categorised as a stain.
Ageas says a reaction between a substance and the leather would fall under stain cover. 
And it has further stated that, as there is no heat source, the damage cannot be described 
as a burn. But I dont agree. Its common for certain chemicals to have the capacity to burn 
through materials, even when there is no heat source. And the wearing away, melting or 
deterioration of the material as seen in the photographs does not look too dissimilar to how 
damage from a burn caused by heat might appear.
So I consider it reasonable for this type of damage to be categorised as a burn, which is 
covered under the warranty. And Ageas has not been able to show a valid exclusion applies 
which would allow it to decline the claim. It therefore follows that I think its fair for Ageas to 
reconsider the claim on the basis that the damage claimed for is a type of burn caused by a 
chemical spillage.
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss J and Mr S, Ageas must reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman