DRN-2589713
The complaint
Mr S complains Santander UK Plc discriminated against him when it said he would need a 
mobile phone in order to continue using online banking.
What happened
Mr S and his wife had a joint account with Santander.
Santander contacted Mr S in July 2019 to say that it would be making changes to how its 
customers logged into online banking and authorised certain payments. Santander said that 
the changes meant its customers might have to confirm their identity through its mobile app 
or a one-time passcode (OTP) sent to their mobile in certain circumstances. Santander 
said that it was making these changes as a result of new regulations that were coming into 
effect in September 2019 affecting the whole banking sector. Santander said that these 
measures were designed to help prevent fraud and increase the security of online payments.
Mr S complained to Santander about the changes it planned to make. He said that he didnt 
own or want a mobile phone and didnt need one as he was virtually housebound. He said 
he thought Santanders plans discriminated against the elderly  saying many dont own 
mobile phones  and werent in line with a paper the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
had published the previous month. He asked Santander why it couldnt, for example, send 
an OTP to his landline as another bank had offered to.
Santander investigated Mr Ss complaint and said that it didnt agree it was discriminating 
against him as it offered alternative ways to access his account and make payments.
Santander said, for example, that Mr S could use its telephone banking services, could go 
into branch and / or use ATMs. Santander said that it was aware other banks offered 
different options, but it required its customers to confirm their identity either through its 
mobile banking app or by providing an OTP sent to their mobile phone. In the meantime, 
Santander said that it was exploring options for customers who didnt have access to a 
mobile phone and would say more once it had made a decision. Mr S was unhappy with 
Santanders response and so complained to us. He switched to another bank a week after 
complaining to us  just before Santanders changes came into effect.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and agreed that Santander hadnt 
acted fairly. Our investigator said that Santander should have offered Mr S alternative ways 
of authenticating himself that didnt rely on a mobile phone. As Mr S had closed his account, 
our investigator said that Santander should compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. They recommended £600 in compensation. 
Santander agreed with our investigators recommendations and initially so did Mr S. 
However, he then said that Santander should offer him significantly more compensation, 
given the size of awards typically made in age discrimination cases. Our investigator didnt 
recommend additional compensation, and Santander didnt offer more than £600. So I was 
asked to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander told Mr S that it was making changes to the way its customers logged into online 
banking and authorised certain payments. Santander told Mr S that these changes were as 
a result of new regulations that were going to come into effect in September 2019 that 
affected the whole banking sector.
Santander is right that new regulations came into effect in September 2019  the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Santander is also right that these regulations affected 
the whole banking sector. The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to 
apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set 
out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has now, following a further and recent extension, given the e-commerce 
industry until March 2022 to implement strong customer authentication for online payments. 
The e-commerce industry includes card issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There 
was, of course, nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than 
that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. Under the PSR, they cant, for example, check using only knowledge based 
factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession based factors. The way Santander has gone about those checks  and the 
reliance it has placed on mobile phones to perform those checks  is at the heart of this 
complaint.
Santanders approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Santander told Mr S it would be making changes to how he banked and shopped online as a 
result of new regulations. Santander told Mr S that if he logged into his online banking, hed 
be asked to provide his security number and user ID and then pass a second check. The 
nature of the second check would depend on whether he used Santanders mobile app or 
not. If he did, hed be asked to use his fingerprint, face or security number. If he didnt, hed 
be asked to use an OTP that would be sent to a device linked to him. Santander told Mr S 
that hed sometimes be asked to complete extra security if he was shopping online. The 
additional check would again depend on whether he used Santanders mobile app or not. If 
he did, hed be asked to use his fingerprint, face or security number. If he didnt, hed be 
asked to use an OTP that would be sent to a device linked to him. In other words, Santander 
told Mr S that hed soon have to pass either an inherence based check (his fingerprint or 
face), a knowledge based check (his security number) and / or a possession based check 
(providing the OTP) if he was logging into his online banking or shopping online. Santander 
told Mr S that if he needed an OTP it couldnt be sent to his landline or an email address  it 
would have to be sent to a mobile phone.
Why did Mr S complain?
Mr S complained about Santanders decision to send customers who dont use its mobile 
app, OTPs to mobile phones only. He complained because he doesnt own or want a mobile 
phone and doesnt need one, meaning he wont be able to authenticate himself. He doesnt 
own a tablet (onto which Santanders mobile app can also be downloaded) either.
I accept that Mr S doesnt own or want a mobile and doesnt feel he needs one. Hes told us 
that hes virtually housebound and lives in an area with poor mobile reception and hes sent 
us evidence that hes disabled too. I also accept that he doesnt own a tablet. So, I can 
understand why Mr S complained about Santanders decision to send OTPs to mobile 
phones only. He was worried it would mean he wouldnt be able to use online banking or do 
online shopping  putting him at a disadvantage. Mr S told Santander that he felt it was 
discriminating against him because of his age  saying many elderly people dont own 
mobile phones  and that it was also breaching guidance issued by the FCA.
Its important to note that Mr S isnt complaining about Santanders decision to introduce 
strong customer authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud, 
and one that payment service providers are obliged to implement. And hes not complaining 
about having to complete additional checks either. I dont think Mr S would have complained 
had Santander offered to send the OTP to his landline so he could pass the extra checks 
Santander was introducing. In short, his only complaint is about Santanders decision to 
send the OTP hed need to authenticate himself to mobile phones only.What has the Financial Conduct Authority said about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations?
The FCA has published several papers about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a paper published in June 2019  
Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  the FCA described its 
approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related rules in its Handbook. 
The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical understanding of the 
requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will experience regulatory 
supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate ways (but not the 
only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to comply with their obligation to 
apply strong customer authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For 
example, not all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone 
and payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must 
provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
Mr S mentioned this paper when he complained to Santander and to us. He said that he 
thought the FCA had made it clear that businesses shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to 
authenticate their customers and should provide viable alternatives for different groups of 
customers, in particular those with protected characteristics. I agree with Mr S. The FCA 
has, in my opinion, also made it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people 
who dont possess a mobile phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. 
The FCA has talked, for example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong 
customer authentication on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the 
less digitally engaged or located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also 
talked about the need for firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that 
work for all groups of consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide 
several different authentication methods for your customers.
Has Santander done enough for Mr S?
Mr S has told us that he doesnt own or want a mobile phone and doesnt feel he needs one. 
So Ive taken the papers the FCA has published on strong customer authentication and its 
thoughts  particularly in relation to people who do not possess a mobile  into account 
when deciding this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. In addition, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Mr S has also told us that hes virtually housebound and hes sent us evidence that hes 
disabled too  so its likely that he has a disability for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010. 
Hes also likely to be a vulnerable person for the purposes of the FCAs guidance on 
treating vulnerable customers fairly. So, Ive also taken the Equality Act 2010 into account  
including the duty to make reasonable adjustments and the provisions relating to indirect 
discrimination  when deciding this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in 
addition to the FCAs guidance on vulnerable consumers. I should add that Mr S has told us 
that he thinks Santanders approach is discriminatory on account of age as he believes 
many elderly people  him included  dont have a mobile phone. Age is a protected characteristic for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010  in the same way disability is  so 
Ive taken this into account too.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Santander to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help 
combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of Santander to decide that it was 
going to use OTPs to help authenticate its customers. I do, however, think it was unfair and 
unreasonable of Santander not to offer Mr S alternative ways to authenticate himself. Ill 
explain why.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. In Mr Ss case, 
given that hes likely to be disabled for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010, given that 
hes likely to be a vulnerable consumer and given FCA Principle 6, I think Santander 
should have offered additional options, such as offering to send the OTP to his landline or 
email address. Both are options that UK Finance, who the FCA has asked to help co- 
ordinate the industrys approach to strong customer authentication, has suggested firms 
adopt. So I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair of Mr S to ask Santander to consider 
those options.
Santanders argument that its offered alternatives
Santander told Mr S that it didnt agree it was discriminating against him as it had offered 
alternative methods by which he could access his account and make payments. Santander 
said, for example, that Mr S could continue to bank using its telephone banking services, 
could go into branch and / or use ATMs. I can see what Santander was trying to say here, 
but I think its missed the point. The FCA has said that businesses should be offering 
customers alternative ways to authenticate themselves. What Santander was offering Mr S  
when it suggested he could use its telephone banking services or go into branch and / or use 
ATMs  were alternatives to online banking rather than alternative ways to authenticate 
himself. For someone like Mr S, who is likely to rely on online banking and online payments 
and who has good reasons for not owning or wanting a mobile phone, I dont think that was 
fair or reasonable. I should add that suggesting to someone who is, for example, virtually 
housebound, that they could go into branch and / or use ATMs is particularly unhelpful. As a 
vulnerable customer Mr S is entitled to be treated fairly and in a way that means he 
receives the same outcomes as any other customer. That involves thinking about many 
things, including but not limited to ensuring products and services are designed in an 
inclusive way. Santanders insistence that Mr S use a mobile phone to authenticate himself 
is, in my opinion, an example of failing to design a service in an inclusive way.
Santanders response to Mr Ss complaint
At the time Mr S complained, Santander said that it was looking into alternatives for 
customers who didnt have a mobile phone and that it would contact its customers once it 
had made a decision on alternatives. Santanders website also told its customers to contact 
it if they didnt have a mobile. Recently Santander has told us that its updated its approach 
to strong customer authentication and that it will now send an OTP to a customer by email if 
they are known to be unable to receive an OTP by text message. Santander has said that 
this includes customers living / working in areas of poor / no mobile signal and some 
vulnerable customers. Santander has, however, said that it will only send an OTP to a 
customer by email to allow them to log onto online banking, and that if they need to make a 
payment using their online banking that involves setting up a new payee then this will involve 
sending an OTP to their mobile. Santander has also told us that it will exempt the customers 
who theyve agreed to send OTP by email from completing extra security when they shop online whilst they develop authentication options that dont rely on mobiles. Santander has, 
however, said that if a transaction gets flagged for fraud it will still have to send an OTP to 
these customers, and it will have to send that OTP to their mobile. Santander didnt offer 
either of these option to Mr S when he complained and, given that he closed his account 
some time ago, it hasnt done so now. Thats a shame. Had Santander offered these options 
when Mr S complained, he might have stayed with them although given that Santander is 
still saying it wont send OTPs to email or landlines if one of its customers wants to set up a 
new payee theres a chance he might not. Instead, he closed his account and has been left 
angry and upset. More recently still Santander has said that it has an OTP helpline which its 
customers can call if theyre having difficulties with OTPs. Santander didnt mention this 
helpline to Mr S when he complained, and from what weve been told its unlikely it would 
have been an option that would have worked particularly well for Mr S.
On a positive note, the bank to which Mr S switched his account sent him a card reader so 
that he could authenticate himself at home. And another bank agreed to send OTPs to his 
email address and suggested he designate his laptop as a safe device. In other words, other 
banks were able to offer Mr S several ways to authenticate himself, including ways that are 
viable for him. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr S to close his 
account. So thats something that I agree with our investigator I ought to take into account 
when deciding how to put this complaint right.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended Santander pay Mr S £600 in compensation having taken 
into account the impact its actions have had on him. I know that Mr S wants me to make an 
award that reflects the damages a Court might have awarded him if hed successfully 
argued that Santanders approach to strong customer authentication discriminated against 
him on account of his age. Whilst I can also understand why Mr S feels that Santanders 
approach discriminates against him, and the elderly generally, as theyre less likely to own 
a mobile phone, I have to make an award based on our approach to compensation, and not 
on the basis of an award that a Court may or may not make. That means I have to make an 
award based on the impact Santanders actions have had on Mr S.
I can see that Mr S was angry when he complained to Santander about the changes it 
planned to introduce, and I can understand why. He felt Santander was deliberately 
discriminating against him given the amount of time it had been given to prepare for strong 
customer authentication since it was in his opinion deliberately ignoring what the FCA had 
said in its paper. I can also see he felt he had no option other than to open an account 
elsewhere  a process that involved Mr S having to go out which in turn caused him 
significant pain and discomfort for a prolonged period. Finally, I can see that Mr S 
remained angry for many months and that Santander has made him feel worthless over 
a prolonged period.Having thought very carefully about the impact on Mr S, I agree with our investigator that
£600 in compensation is a fair amount. This final decision will be published  I mention 
this as I know that this is likely to be important to Mr S too. I hope that Mr S can put this 
complaint behind himself now and focus on other matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK plc to pay Mr S £600 in compensation in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and his wife 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman