DRN-4323368
The complaint
B, a company, complains about a claim made on its AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited 
(AXA) commercial site insurance policy.
This complaint is brought by one of Bs Directors but for ease of reference I shall refer to the 
submissions made on its behalf as being its own.  
What happened
B made a claim on its AXA site insurance policy to recover the cost of items it said had been 
stolen from its site. AXA appointed loss adjusters to consider the claim who gathered 
information about the circumstances of the theft and the items taken from Bs site. The loss 
adjusters concluded the claim wasnt one that was covered by the policy because there 
wasnt enough evidence to establish that the items belonged to B or that B was responsible 
for them. As a result, AXA declined the claim.
B says that AXA were wrong to decline the claim and that it has lost out on selling the 
properties it built on the insured site because it couldnt complete them without the stolen 
items as it didnt have enough money to fund these itself. As such it wants AXA to pay its 
claim and provide it with compensation for this.
Our investigator considered Bs claim and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said that 
there wasnt enough evidence to establish the items claimed for belonged to B as required 
by the policy, so AXA were entitled to decline the claim. B doesnt agree so the matter has 
been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
In the event of direct physical loss of or damage to the Insured Property occurring on or 
adjacent to the Project during the Period of Insurance, the Insurer will cover the Insured 
against such loss of or damage to the Insured Property, up to the Sum Insured stated in the 
Schedule. Provided that such Insured Property belongs to the Insured, or for which the 
Insured is responsible under a written Contract and is intended for use on the Project and in 
connection with the Project"
In this case the insured is B. Because its a commercial entity there are no further terms that 
can be read into anyone else being covered under this policy except B such as an 
immediate family member living with the Insured (as noted in the policy) because B is not a 
natural person. The onus in this claim was on B to establish there was an insured event it 
was entitled to claim for under the policy. So, B needed to prove to AXA that the property it 
was claiming for either belonged to it or that it was responsible for it under a written contract.
As I understand it, the items being claimed for were taken away by the entity who supplied 
them on the basis that B hadnt paid for them. B disputes this. Rather it says it paid for the 
items and has shown that its made payments towards by providing evidence of those 
payments. The payments were made by a different legal entity which I understand is 
connected to B in that the Director of that entity is married to the Director of B. The invoices 
from the supplier of the goods being claimed for under the policy were however addressed to 
the Director of B directly. 
B says this shouldnt cast doubt on the ownership of the items in question. It says that the 
sums from the other entity were advanced on Bs behalf to the supplier because that entity 
owned money to the Director of B. Whilst that may be the case, Im not sure that establishes 
that the property being claimed for belonged to B. The invoices themselves arent addressed 
to B as a legal entity- theyre addressed to its Director. So, they could well have been owned 
by her in her personal capacity. And theres no other evidence that Ive seen that suggests 
that B specifically was responsible for the items under a written contract. Indeed, Ive not 
seen a written contract addressed to B at all for them. As such, I think that AXA were entitled 
to decline the claim on the basis of the information supplied to it by B.
That having been said, if B is able to provide further information that establishes that the 
items claimed for either belonged to it or that it was responsible for them by way of a written 
contract then I would expect AXA to reconsider its claim.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Bs complaint against AXA XL Insurance 
Company UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman