DRN-2134860
The complaint
Mrs. H complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse). She would like Black Horse to cover the 
cost of repairs to her brakes
What happened
Mrs. H says in November 2018 she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Black Horse 
for a used car with over 23,000 miles on the clock. She says in June 2019 the handbrake 
failed and as a result the car rolled into another car.
Mrs. H said she had the car inspected and was advised the front brake pads were worn and 
she was quoted around £200 to replace them
She said she wasnt happy that the business has only offered to cover 50% of the cost of 
repairs.
Black Horse said no advisories were noted on the MOT prior to Mrs. H getting the car.  And 
when Mrs. H raised the handbrake issue, she had had the car for eight months and driven 
over 3,0000 miles. It arranged for an independent inspection which concluded any issues 
were due to wear and tear. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found the independent report found no 
issues with the handbrake but noted due to general wear and tear the brakes and disks 
might need replacing in the near future. And the issue had arisen more than six months after 
Mrs. H had the car. He noted that the dealership had offered to pay 50% of the repair costs 
as a gesture of goodwill which he felt was reasonable.
Black Horse accepted this view, but Mrs. H didnt. She flagged some inaccuracies in our 
investigators view. Her main point being that the dealership had only offered to cover 50% 
of the costs if a cable was required for the handbrake not to contribute to the brake pads or 
discs at all. She felt the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Our investigator considered Mrs. Hs comments. He confirmed that Black Horse was willing 
to extend its gesture of good will to cover the handbrake and discs as well.
On this basis Mrs. H accepted this view. However, when chasing up the work on the car Mrs. 
H discovered that Black Horses offer was only to cover 50% of the costs of repairs. She had 
understood the offer was to cover the full cost. At this point she asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs. H feels strongly about this, so I appreciate she is going to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
I am conscious Mrs. H bought a used car and so might reasonably expect to have wear, tear 
and repair issues to deal with  more so than if for example she bought a new car.
Having said that we expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. Usually if issues 
occur within the first six months of an agreement, we expect the business to determine if 
there is a point of sale issue or not. And if there is, we would expect the business to resolve 
any problems.
When issues arise after six months, we usually say its for the consumer to show there are 
point of sale issues for which the business is responsible.
Mrs. H took out her agreement in November 2018. She had an issue with the handbrake in 
June 2019 some seven months after the start of the agreement. Mrs. H had the car checked 
where she works and was advised the front brake pads were 85% worn and was quoted 
£200 for repair work to the brakes.
When Mrs. H complained to Black Horse it arranged an independent inspection. I have read 
that the report. It states that the brake pads and discs show some signs of general 
serviceable wear, but the brakes are still effective. The report advised the pads and discs 
would need to be replaced at some point in the near future. The report didnt identify any 
point of sale issues
Ive also considered other evidence I have on the state of the car. The MOT carried out a 
month before Mrs. H got the car had no advisories. And the pre-sale inspection document 
didnt identify any issues with the brakes.
Looking at all the information provided I have no evidence to suggest there was a problem 
with the brakes at the point of sale for which Black Horse is responsible. I think any issues 
are due to general wear and tear that, unfortunately, can be expected in a used car.
I appreciate there has been some confusion over a gesture of goodwill offer that Black Horse 
has made. It seems the original offer was made by someone who no longer works for the 
dealership where Mrs. H got her car.
Black Horse has confirmed its gesture of goodwill is to cover 50% of the cost of any repairs 
needed to the handbrake, brake pads and discs. 
As I havent found Black Horse liable for any repairs, I dont feel I can reasonably expect it to 
cover the full cost of any repairs as Mrs. H would like. So, I leave it to Mrs. H to decide if she 
wishes to accept Black Horses offer or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman