DRN-4075459
The complaint
Mr R complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) handling of his claims 
under his appliance warranty policy.  
What happened
Mr R has two warranty policies in place with D&G, one for his fridge freezer and one for his 
television. Mr R made claims about both appliances after he experienced problems, and 
these were settled with D&G agreeing to send vouchers for replacement appliances. Mr R 
wasnt happy about D&Gs handling and settlement of his claims and about having to wait on 
hold during calls, so he complained.  
D&G responded and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about the claims handling. They 
acknowledged, vouchers which had been sent in settlement of the fridge claim hadnt yet 
been received by Mr R. They said if the vouchers had been delayed in the post due to 
strikes, then this was outside their control. They accepted the complaint about Mr R being 
left on hold. They apologised and offered £20 compensation which they said Mr R declined. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought D&G hadnt treated Mr R unfairly in 
their settlement of his claims and he thought their offer of £20 was fair. Mr R disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the claims handling. In 
relation to the call waiting times, Ive decided D&Gs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand Mr R will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Claim for Fridge Freezer 
Mr R says his fridge was written off four years ago and he was due to receive a replacement 
at that time. He says he has only now been offered vouchers for it to be replaced. Mr R isnt 
happy with the amount offered as he says its less than what he paid for it. 
D&G have provided a recording of a call from July 2020 during which Mr R explains theres a 
mechanical issue with his fridge. The call handler checks the details on their system and 
explains to Mr R his fridge is under its two-year manufacturer warranty. 
They explain the D&G policy covers accidental damage which they say isnt the cause of the 
issue here  and Mr R agrees. They explain the manufacturers warranty runs for around 
another year and its only after this point that D&G will start to deal with any electrical and 
mechanical faults. The call handler then gives Mr R the manufacturers contact details and 
also transfers him through to them. 
Mr Rs policy documents say D&G wont cover breakdown of an appliance thats covered by 
another guarantee or warranty. Given that Mr Rs fridge was, at the time, covered by the 
manufacturers warranty, I think D&G took reasonable steps in referring Mr R to the 
manufacturer and not dealing with the claim under the D&G policy. Mr R has provided 
information showing his communication with the retailer and this shows they offered a 
resolution to his claim. So, Im satisfied D&G didnt handle a claim from 2020 and the 
complaint about Mr R waiting four years for a replacement isnt against D&G.  
  
The information shows Mr R does then make a claim to D&G in December 2022 and I can 
see hes concerned about their handling of this claim. My starting point is Mr Rs appliance 
warranty policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and describes the steps D&G will 
take when replacing the fridge following a claim. It says, For accepted claims, we will either 
arrange for you to receive a replacement (of the same or similar make and technical 
specification) or give you [retailer] vouchers that will be: equal to the current retail price (from 
[retailer]) of a replacement product of the same or similar make and technical 
specificationor will be product specific. If you receive a product specific voucher, this 
means you will only be able to purchase the product detailed on the voucher.   
System notes provided by D&G show Mr R notified them of a problem with his fridge on 2 
December 2022. An appointment was arranged for an engineer to inspect the fridge and, on 
8 December, they reported some parts were no longer available, so the fridge was written 
off. Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr R made to D&G the same day. The call handler 
explains theyll need to send Mr R vouchers to enable him to buy a replacement. The call 
handler explains theyve looked at their system to find the nearest replacement and then 
offers Mr R £330. 
Mr R then called D&G a couple of weeks later to say he wasnt happy with the voucher 
amount being offered. The call handler explained the amount offered is based on a product 
with same or similar specifications and not what Mr R paid for his original appliance. D&G 
have provided details of the specification of Mr Rs original fridge and the replacement fridge 
 and these are broadly similar. So, I cant say D&G have acted unreasonably in basing their 
settlement offer on the price of a replacement fridge of similar specification. And in doing so, 
theyve acted in line with the terms and conditions. I acknowledge Mr R feels D&G should 
match the price he paid for his original fridge but thats not what the policy covers. D&G have 
demonstrated theyve offered a settlement which allows Mr R to buy a replacement fridge  
of similar specification to his previous one  from their appointed retailer.     
Delay in sending vouchers for replacement fridge freezer  
Mr R says there was a delay in sending the vouchers. He says the vouchers were initially 
sent by post but didnt arrive, so D&G arranged to send them by email. 
During Mr Rs call to D&G on 8 December, the call handler explains they can send the 
vouchers by email or post  and Mr R asks for it to be sent by post. Mr R then called D&G a 
couple of weeks later to chase the vouchers. The call handler explained it can take 10-14 
days to arrive but could take longer with the ongoing postal strikes. Then on 16 January 
2023, as Mr R still hadnt received the vouchers, D&G cancelled the original vouchers and 
sent e-vouchers, but this was only for £309.98. In their response to our service, D&G confirm 
theyve sent the additional £20.02. 
Taking this into account, I cant say there has been delay by D&G here. The postal service 
was affected by strikes around the time the vouchers were sent and while they wouldve 
been out for delivery. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with the 
terms and conditions, for D&G to offer Mr R the option of how he would like to receive the 
vouchers. Its unfortunate these werent received sooner and led to Mr R having to chase 
D&G, but I cant hold them responsible for any general postal delays or strikes. I think D&G then took reasonable steps in arranging for the vouchers to be changed into e-vouchers and 
resent. I acknowledge Mr R is concerned about the time taken but D&G have explained this 
process involved cancelling the original vouchers sent by post and then resetting the 
replacement process to allow them to issue the e-vouchers. I also acknowledge D&G then 
sent an incorrect amount initially, but I think theyve taken reasonable steps to correct this 
error by sending the outstanding amount to bring the total sent to £330. 
Claim for television
Mr R is unhappy about D&Gs settlement of his claim and delays during the claim handling. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy says D&G will replace Mr Rs television if they 
cant repair it. And theyll arrange to replace it with one of a same or similar make and 
technical specification. It goes further to say If we cannot reasonably arrange a 
replacement, we will give you vouchers instead. The vouchers will be for the full retail price 
(from a retailer chosen by us) of a replacement product of the same or similar make and 
technical specification. It also says, If vouchers are not available we will provide a cash 
equivalent.
System notes provided by D&G show Mr R called D&G on 2 December to notify them of an 
issue with the remote control of his television. This was resolved on 8 December with a 
replacement remote control being sent to Mr R. Mr R then called D&G again on 22 
December to notify them of a problem with his television, which he says kept cutting out.    
On 11 January 2023, an engineer tried to fix the issue but wasnt able to, so D&G decided to 
write-off Mr Rs television the following day. On 15 January, D&G sent Mr R e-vouchers in 
the sum of £279 for a replacement television. 
 
D&G have provided information which shows the replacement television they based their 
settlement figure on. And Im satisfied this is in line with the terms and conditions to offer 
vouchers for the full retail price of a replacement television of the same or similar make and 
technical specification of his previous television. So I cant say D&Gs settlement offer is 
unreasonable. I acknowledge Mr R wants a cash settlement, and I can see the terms and 
conditions do allow D&G to offer this. But thats only in circumstances where vouchers arent 
available. And given that theyre available here, I dont think its unreasonable for D&G to 
settle the claim on this basis. 
Looking at the timeline of events here, I cant say D&G have delayed in handling Mr Rs 
claim. From the point Mr R notified D&G about a problem with his television, its just over two 
weeks later that an engineer arrives to inspect it. D&G acknowledge Mr Rs complaint about 
the delay in getting his television repaired because the parts required were out of stock. 
D&G acknowledge their engineer wasnt able to repair Mr Rs television during their first visit 
and explain their engineers dont always carry parts required for all issues. As a resolution 
they agreed to write-off Mr Rs television and offered vouchers for a replacement television. I 
acknowledge Mr Rs concern about his television not being repaired during the engineer 
visit, but I dont think its unreasonable to expect engineers wont always have all parts 
required to resolve all issues. So I dont think its unreasonable for any parts to then be 
placed on order and then for the engineer to return to carry out the repairs. In the 
circumstances of this case though, I think D&G have acted reasonably by taking the decision 
to write-off Mr Rs television to enable him to buy a replacement. 
I can see our investigator has identified an issue where D&G appear to have sent the          
e-vouchers to an incorrect email address. Its not clear whether these have been received by 
Mr R now, but I cant see this has been raised as a specific complaint by Mr R. So, before 
our service is able to look at this, Mr R will need to raise this as a complaint with D&G if hes 
concerned about delays in receiving the e-vouchers.   
 Call waiting times 
I can see Mr R raised a complaint about the length of time he was on hold to the repair 
agent. D&G upheld this complaint and, as well as apologising, they offered £20 as a gesture 
of goodwill. I understand Mr R declined this offer as he says he has been left waiting on calls 
for significant periods of time and doesnt feel the £20 offered by D&G is reasonable. I 
acknowledge it will be frustrating for a customer to be on hold for a period of time but often 
these situations are unavoidable for a business. There will no doubt be occasions where a 
business experiences a spike in call volumes, and this does unfortunately lead to longer call 
waiting times. I cant say D&G are responsible for this, but theyve acknowledged the impact 
on Mr R, and I think their offer of £20 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
My final decision
Domestic & General Insurance Plc have already made an offer to pay £20 compensation to 
settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Domestic & General Insurance Plc should pay £20 to Mr R, if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman