DRN-2801947
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage held by the late Mrs B with NRAM Limited. The 
executors of Mrs Bs estate complain about how NRAM handled matters in the period 
between them notifying it of Mrs Bs death and obtaining probate.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs B died in January 2020; when the executors told it Mrs B had died, NRAM said it would 
provide a three-month grace period for them to obtain probate, during which time thered be 
no arrears charges or recovery activity. 
For a variety of reasons that I dont need to disclose, it took until September 2020 for 
probate to be granted. By this time the three-month period had expired and NRAM had 
begun contacting the executors for progress reports. A complaint was raised, initially by one 
of the executors who had found dealing with NRAM particularly stressful. The second 
executor joined the complaint when it came to us.
Aside from the stress element, the main crux of the complaint was that the executors thought 
NRAM hadnt allowed payments to be made ahead of probate being granted, and there was 
now concern about the effect the resulting arrears would have on the estate.
Our investigator initially recommended NRAM re-work the account from when Mrs B had 
died on the basis that all the payments had been made when due, clear any adverse credit 
reporting and pay compensation of £400. When it was drawn to her attention that the 
executors hadnt made any payments since probate was granted, the investigator revised 
her recommended settlement, limiting it to just the proposed £400 compensation. NRAM 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator; I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
The starting point here is that the eligible complainant under our rules is Mrs Bs estate; its 
not the executors. That means I cant consider the impact of NRAMs action on them. 
However difficult they have found dealing with the mortgage, the executors represent the 
estate, and it is the impact on the estate that I have to assess.
The estate of a deceased person cant suffer distress, but it can suffer inconvenience. So it 
is open to me to award compensation to Mrs Bs estate if Im persuaded it has been 
inconvenienced by acts or omissions on NRAMs part. Having considered everything that 
both parties have said and provided in this case, Im not convinced Mrs Bs estate has been 
inconvenienced by NRAMs conduct.
The main bone of contention appears to be whether NRAM ensured the executors 
understood that whilst it wouldnt insist on payments being made pending the grant of 
probate, the executors could still do if they wished to and it wouldnt refuse any payments 
that were made. 
Its possible to make a case that NRAM didnt make that distinction as clear as it might, but 
even if it had done, Im not sure it would have made any difference to Mrs Bs estate. I say 
that not least because even after probate was granted, the executors didnt make any 
payments. If they executors didnt make payments after probate was granted, its hard for 
me to conclude they would have made payments if theyd definitely known they could do so 
before probate was granted.
Overall, Im not satisfied Mrs Bs estate has been inconvenienced, or adversely affected in 
any way, as a consequence of any shortcomings in the way NRAM communicated with the 
executors, either before or after their executorship was confirmed.
Weve heard from NRAM; it had nothing further to add. Weve also from both executors, 
albeit separately. One of the executors accepted my provisional decision without comment; 
the other disagreed with it but raised no new arguments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive been given no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, so I 
dont.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman