DRN-3009111
The complaint
Mr M complains that a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) was mis-sold to him by 
Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL). He also complains that the risks of investing in 
stocks and shares, wasnt properly explained to him by SL.
What happened
On 9 August 2017, Mr M contacted SL to discuss transferring his personal pension plan 
(PPP) to an Active Money SIPP. Mr M had already been sent a Key Facts document 
(KFD) and information about the SIPPs charges after hed called SL on 3 August 2017. 
During the call on 9 August 2017, the following was discussed with Mr M:
Mr M confirmed he had read the documents which had been sent to him on 3 August;
He said his main reason for wanting to switch his PPP to a SIPP was so he could 
access different types of investments. And by doing so, increase his pension fund;
The SL agent explained the different types of investments available through a SIPP. 
This included Level 1 investments (Insured funds); Level 2 investments (Mutual 
funds) and; Level 3 investments (stocks and shares);
Mr M was told that in order to trade in Level 3 investments, SIPP members needed to 
open a trading account through a separate business called Stocktrade. And that if 
he wanted to open this account without the use of an Independent Financial Adviser, 
hed have to go through SLs concession process;
It was explained to Mr M that the concession process was to ensure he (Mr M) was 
comfortable with investing in Level 3 type investments;
Mr M agreed to go through the concession process during the call. He was asked a 
number of questions about his previous investment experience, his objectives, and 
about his understanding of different types of investments and their associated risks; 
Mr M said he had five years investment experience using another trading platform 
trading in US and UK stocks and shares.
 
Mr M was told during a subsequent call on 16 August 2017 that his SIPP application had 
been accepted. The SL agent told Mr M that this was a non-advised sale and that he (Mr M) 
was responsible for the decision to transfer. Mr M was also asked whether he had received 
any advice from SL in the last year, to which he said he hadnt. 
Mr M initially signed the application form for the SIPP on 28 August 2017. But he hadnt 
signed the following declaration:
You had not been provided with advice, you will take responsibility for your 
decision to transfer as well as understanding we had not assessed the 
suitability of the transfer. You are aware we strongly recommend you seek 
financial advice before proceeding with the transfer and have chosen not to.
So, SL requested that this section was signed by Mr M which he did on 7 September 2017. 
Mr Ms PPP with a value of £157,890 was then transferred shortly after this to the SIPP. 
However, Mr M had to go through the concession process again in December 2017 because 
the details of the initial process hadnt been added to his SIPP account. Following this, his 
Stocktrade trading account (the trading account) was opened in January 2018.
Up until February 2020 Mr M traded in various shares, including in a company Ill refer to as 
N. On 26 February 2020 he purchased a total of 5,000 shares in N and sold 1,500 on the 
same day. This brought his total shareholding in N to 15,000. But on 27 February 2020 Ns 
shares were suspended from the stock exchange and were later delisted.
On 26 March 2020 SL told Mr M that his SIPP account had a shortfall of £31,769 and that 
charges of £734 were due to be paid between May and November 2020. SL said if no action 
was taken to clear the negative balance by 3 April 2020, it would ask Stocktrade to place a 
sell trade to cover the balance and upcoming charges. 
Mr M complained to SL. In summary, he made the following points:
The SIPP was mis-sold to him by SL and it had used pressure selling tactics;
He attended a SL seminar in March 2017 where he was advised to invest through a 
SIPP and Ns shares were discussed;
The risks involved werent properly explained to him;
SL didnt properly train him on how to use the trading platform;
SL had failed to assess the shortcomings of the Stocktrade platform;
There had been a failure of communications between SL and Stocktrade; 
There had been ongoing inaccurate reporting and advice from SL;
SL refused to clarify why he was to pay in advance for charges relating to his SIPP;
He had been incorrectly charged unexpected and unexplained fees;
He has been prevented from accessing his online SIPP account.
SL rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said as a non-advised service, it hadnt given any advice to 
Mr M. And the seminar Mr M attended wasnt with its company. SL said because investing in 
external funds through the trading platform was deemed higher risk, Mr M had been taken 
through its concession process. SL was satisfied Mr Ms responses to its questions, showed 
he was fully aware of different types of investments and their associated risks. In terms of 
the suspension of Ns shares, SL noted there was no way of establishing a fair market price 
for the stock, so these shares would continue to show as nil value within Mr Ms SIPP. 
SL said as Mr M had been very active in buying stocks and shares since January 2018, it felt 
he was aware of how the trading platform worked in conjunction with his SIPP. And in terms 
of its fees and charges, SL considered these had all been fully disclosed to Mr M. Following 
further correspondence with Mr M, SL said in the event of no monies being returned to his 
SIPP account, it would not pursue him for the negative balance. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She was satisfied Mr M hadnt 
received advice from SL. And she didnt think the SIPP had been mis-sold to him. Our 
investigator thought the event Mr M attended wasnt held by SL. She was also satisfied that 
SL sufficiently checked Mr Ms understanding of the risks involved in trading through the 
SIPP. Overall, our investigator thought SL had been clear about its charges and about the 
way it operated in conjunction with the Stocktrade platforms. Our investigator thought SL had 
acted fairly by not pursuing Mr M for the outstanding negative balance.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. In summary, Mr M 
said he didnt think SL could enforce the minus balance on his account, so he didnt think its 
offer was of any value. Mr M thought the absence of a record of the advice SL had given him 
at the seminar, didnt mean this hadnt happened. And whilst hed experience in share 
dealing, this hadnt been successful which showed his inexperience.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think SL has acted unreasonably or unfairly in Mr Ms case. Before I 
explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr M has about 
this matter. I appreciate he is in a very difficult situation. Hes provided very detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, 
my findings will focus on what I consider to be the central issues so I wont address every 
point Mr M has raised. Im not required to do this to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome based on all the evidence.
Listening to calls between Mr M and SLs both before and after setting up his SIPP, I 
consider it was made reasonably clear to him that SL wasnt providing him with advice. This 
was clearly stated in the initial call made on 3 August 2017 and in subsequent calls. Mr M 
acknowledged during calls with SL that it hadnt given him any advice.
Mr M said he attended a SL seminar in March 2017, where he received advice. But this 
event was held by a separate company. And when Mr M contacted SL in August 2017, I can 
clearly hear him saying he hadnt received any advice. 
In addition, the paperwork such as the KFD and the Execution-only stockbroking  An 
investors guide were very clear that this was a non-advised sale. So, if Mr M thought it was 
something different, then I would question why he didnt query this once he was asked to 
sign a declaration saying he hadnt received any advice. Instead, he signed the execution 
only declaration on 7 September 2017 to say he hadnt received investment advice from SL. 
On that basis, SL wasnt required to ensure the SIPP was suitable or that it met Mr Ms 
needs and circumstances  that was something Mr M needed to do himself. 
Whatever the nature of the sale, SL still needed to give Mr M sufficient information to make 
an informed choice. To this end, Mr M was sent information about the SIPP and the trading 
account. He was sent the investors guide and a KFD. He was sent information about the 
relevant charges that applied to both the SIPP and the trading account. These documents 
explained how the accounts worked separately and in conjunction with each other. They also 
set out the types of risks that were associated with trading in stocks and shares.
Im satisfied the information provided to Mr M about the SIPP and the risks associated with 
this, was clear, fair and not misleading such that he could make an informed decision. 
Mr M says SL used pressure selling tactics but I dont think there is any persuasive evidence 
to support this. The initial contact with SL was initiated by Mr M. Mr M gave clear reasoning 
as to why he was setting up a SIPP. All in all, I dont think the evidence supports that 
pressure selling tactics were responsible for persuading Mr M to transfer to a SIPP or for him 
opening a trading account.
Mr M also says he wasnt told about the risks of share dealing through his SIPP. But Mr M 
was taken through the concession process on two separate occasions. And on each 
occasion, I consider his answers supported that he had the required understanding and 
experience relevant to the type of Level 3 investments he wanted to trade in. Overall, I think 
that SL took reasonable steps to check Mr M understood the information provided to him and 
the risks involved with having both a SIPP and a trading account.In terms of the fees, looking at the information SL provided to Mr M, Im satisfied these were 
clearly explained to him. On the calls in August 2017, the SL agents went into some detail 
about the likely charges that would apply to Mr Ms SIPP. Further, the Your investment 
choices and charges document clearly sets out SLs fees and charges.
SL has said it wont pursue Mr M for any amounts owing on his SIPP which includes 
outstanding fees. The SIPP has a debit balance of around £32,000. So, I think SL has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. Ive taken into account what Mr M says about this 
offer having no value. But I dont think SL has done anything wrong so I wont be asking it to 
do anything further. Mr M has also raised issues about charges made by Stocktrade but this 
is the subject matter of a separate complaint and wont be dealt with here.
Mr M says he experienced technical difficulties between the Stocktrade and SL dashboards 
including that these showed different available cash balances. But Mr M was told from the 
outset that these were two separate accounts. These accounts served different purposes 
and I think it was always likely there would be differences in what the two platforms reported. 
Nonetheless, from what I can see any reporting differences, whilst frustrating, didnt cause 
any financial detriment to Mr M. When Ns shares were suspended, this left Mr M with no 
available cash balance to trade with. So, even if there were differences in the way Ns value 
was reported between the two platforms, I dont think this caused him any detriment.
I also note Mr Ms concerns about SL not assessing the shortcomings of Stocktrade. But 
from what I can see, SL has acted fairly by providing Mr M with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the Stocktrade service that he could open with his SIPP account. It was for 
Mr M to decide, based on this information, whether he wanted to access the trading account. 
Similarly, if Mr M thought he required any training on how to use the stockbroking service, as 
a non-advised service, I dont think SL was under any obligation to do this.
I take on board what Mr M says about the problems he had in accessing his SIPP account in 
the months after the collapse of Ns shares. I appreciate this will be frustrating for Mr M but 
given the accounts status, I cant see this has had any financial impact on him for which I 
can fairly award compensation.
So, whilst I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman