DRN-3168218
The complaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited held him liable after another driver 
made a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Another insurer notified Calpe that Mr As car had hit their insureds car. But Mr A said he 
hadnt been involved and his car was in a garage being repaired at the time. Calpe 
appointed an independent assessor to compare the damage on the two cars. He thought the 
damage was consistent. And so Calpe accepted liability on Mr As behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Calpe 
had reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before accepting liability. 
She thought it was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So she didnt think 
Calpe had acted unfairly.
Mr A replied that he thought his cars number plate had been cloned. He said there wasnt 
any forensic evidence that he had been involved in the incident. Mr A asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A has consistently denied involvement in this matter. He said his car had 
been involved in an incident a month earlier and was at a garage in storage. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr A the same as someone else in his position. 
Calpe is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr A to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr A has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
Calpe received notification that Mr As car had been involved in an accident with another car 
whilst it was making a U-turn. So Calpe was obliged to investigate the claim. Mr A said he 
had been at home at the time and his car was unroadworthy and was in storage at a garage. 
The garage provided a statement that the car hadnt been removed from its care and it 
thought the number plate may have been cloned. 
Calpe had an engineer compare the damage to the two cars as shown by engineering 
reports. He said the height and force of the damage were consistent with the other drivers 
allegations. The engineer also confirmed that Mr As car was the one photographed at the 
accident scene by the other driver. Calpe decided that it would be unable to defend the 
matter if it went to court. So it settled the other drivers claim. 
I think Calpe reasonably investigated the claim and established that Mr As car had been 
involved in the accident. And so I think it reasonably settled the other drivers claim and held 
Mr A, as the cars owner, liable. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that it treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably. 
I can see that Mr A has reported the possible cloning of his cars number plate to the police. 
As our investigator has already advised, if the police decide to investigate this and provide 
evidence that it was cloned, then Mr A can provide this to Calpe for its consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman