DRN-4024116
The complaint
Mr J complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd wont release funds from his account.
What happened
In early 2023, Mr J raised a complaint with eBay. He said eBay was holding on to funds from 
an item hed sold in December 2022.
eBay said this was because Mr J hadnt uploaded a copy of his personal ID as requested. It 
said it would release the funds once it had been able to verify his identity.
Mr J asked our service to consider his complaint. He said he wasnt prepared to upload his 
ID as he considered it to be an ID theft risk.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that eBay 
was acting in line with the terms Mr J had agreed to when he joined eBays managed 
payments service in June 2021. Mr J needed to verify his identity in order for the funds to be 
released. 
Mr J said hed since uploaded photo ID documents to eBay and it had refused to accept 
them. So, our investigator referred a second complaint to eBay on his behalf. 
In response to Mr Js complaint, eBay said that none of the documents hed uploaded in 
January and February 2023 were a valid form of government issued ID as per eBays 
payments terms of use agreement. It said Mr Js pay out would remain blocked until the ID 
verification was successfully passed. So, Mr J asked our service to consider his second 
complaint. 
Our investigator considered the matter, but she didnt think eBay had done anything wrong. 
She said eBay was entitled to set out what ID it needs to see, and she didnt think it was 
unfair for it to ask for certain types of ID in its verification process. She thought eBay should 
see if there were any alternatives to give Mr J access to his money.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said hed offered to present himself in 
person with his photo IDs at eBays office. He said hed also stated that he would accept 
payment of the debt by instalments so as not to breach money laundering rules. He also 
commented that eBay had provided misleading information as it had stated other 
government issued IDs were acceptable, apart from a driving license and passport. He said 
banks had accepted the same IDs hed provided, and it would be helpful to clarify what IDs 
are legally acceptable to abide by the requirements. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
eBay says Mr J joined its managed payments service in June 2021. In doing so, he would 
have agreed to its payments terms of use, which say a seller must:
Provide us with all information which we may require for purposes that include: verifying 
your identity, complying with applicable anti-money laundering and sanctions screening 
obligations, allowing us to manage settlements of your transaction proceeds, and assessing 
fraud and risk. If you are an individual, this information may include, without limitation, your 
full name, address, phone number, date of birth, taxpayer identification number, bank 
account information and a form of government-issued identification (e.g., a copy of your 
identity card or drivers license.
The terms of use go on to say that eBay may place a hold on a sellers funds if we have 
reason to believe there is an increased risk associated with the provision of our Payment 
Services or with a certain Managed Payment transaction, for example if we cannot verify 
your identityWe may also cancel or freeze the settlement of your proceeds as necessary 
to comply with our legal obligations in connection with fraud prevention, risk management, or 
regulatory compliance. Any hold placed on your funds will be lifted when the issue is 
resolved.
In its response to Mr Js second complaint, eBay referred him to a page on its website which 
says:
Providing proof of identification
In some cases, we may need you to send us a photo of a valid form of identification. Well 
send you an email, as well as place a banner on your account, as a reminder to let you know 
what we need, including instructions on how to upload the image.
We accept the following forms of valid identification:
Drivers license
Passport
eBay says that the documents Mr J uploaded arent sufficient because they dont include the 
information it needs to verify his identity. It says it accepts passports, government issued 
driving licenses and identification cards. 
eBays says there are certain other documents it is willing to accept to verify the identity of 
sellers that do not have the required photo ID. 
Our investigator asked Mr J to confirm if he had a drivers license or passport twice. 
However, Mr J didnt answer her question in his responses to her emails. 
eBay has an obligation to comply with money laundering regulations and legislation, which 
include verifying a customers identity. So, I cant tell it to release the funds when it hasnt 
been able to do so.
I appreciate Mr J has concerns about the safety of uploading photo ID and would prefer to 
provide this in person. However, eBay is an online business, so it will only accept ID 
electronically. And its not the role of our service to tell a business what processes to put in 
place.I think eBay could have given Mr J a clearer explanation as to why it wouldnt accept the 
documents hed uploaded to verify his identity. However, I dont think its decision not to 
accept these was unreasonable. And Mr J hasnt indicated that he doesnt have the photo ID 
eBay said it required (i.e. a passport or drivers license). Given what it says in eBays terms 
of use, I cant say its unreasonable for eBay to withhold Mr Js funds. 
eBay says it is willing to give Mr J access to his funds once he provides the appropriate 
documentation to verify his identity. So, if he wants to provide this now, he can. If he doesnt 
have a passport or drivers license, he should let eBay know so it can advise him of what 
documents he might provide instead. But, as he doesnt appear to have provided the 
necessary ID as yet, I cant ask eBay to do anything more. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr J, but Im satisfied that eBay has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with its terms of use. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman