DRN-3856227
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc changed the terms and conditions of their Tech 
Pack insurance and didnt notify him, and when he tried to make a claim for his laptop, he 
wasnt covered.  
What happened
Mr R held a Tech Pack insurance policy with Barclays. 
In November 2022 Mr R rang to make a claim regarding his laptop and he was advised that 
laptops were no longer covered under the policy. 
Mr R complained and requested a refund of his premiums back to June 2022. 
Barclays say that they notified Mr R about this change by sending a letter to his online 
account, but Mr R says that he doesnt use this facility and has always asked for letters. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Rs complaint. He thought that Barclays had 
acted fairly in communicating the change to the policy. Mr R didnt agree and so the matter 
has come to me to review.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Mr R says that the changes were made to his policy and he wasnt notified of the changes in 
line with his communication preferences. He says that some documents are sent by post 
and some are online.
Barclays have shown us that Mr R had elected to have his documents online prior to 
November 2022, and so Im satisfied that it was reasonable for them to post any 
correspondence to him through his online account. They have now changed this preference 
to post for him from November 2022.
Ive then looked to see what communication was sent.   
Barclays changed their insurance provider for the Tech Pack insurance in April 2021 and the 
new insurer required devices to be registered. Barclays posted a letter to Mr Rs online 
account advising him of this change on 8 February 2021.  
In June 2022 Barclays posted a second letter to Mr Rs online service advising him that the 
laptop he had registered under the Tech Pack insurance would no longer be covered. This 
change was to take effect from 26 August 2022. 
So, I am satisfied that changes to the terms and conditions were clearly notified.
Mr R told Barclays that he doesnt access the online letters and so he wouldnt know and 
that although he gets notifications, he ignores them and so he wasnt aware.
I can appreciate that Mr R thinks that these letters should have been sent by post as they 
included changes to this policy, and he does get some letters by post. However, I cant say 
that Barclays have acted unreasonably in posting the letters to his online account when this 
was his recorded communication preference at the time they were sent. I can see that Mr R 
disputes that his preference was online notification, but I havent seen any evidence to 
indicate that this was the case. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman