DRN-4426805
The complaint
Mr S complains about the price that BUPA Insurance Limited has charged him for his 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has held a BUPA By You personal private medical insurance policy for many years. In 
April 2023, BUPA sent Mr S renewal documentation which showed a significant premium 
increase. Mr S was unhappy with the increase because he felt the price was excessive and 
he didnt think BUPA had taken his personal financial circumstances or his ability to afford 
the policy into account. He also felt BUPA had provided him with poor service.
BUPA told Mr S that the policy price had been calculated correctly and explained the main 
reasons why a policyholders premium could rise. It said Mr S could get in touch with it to 
discuss ways to reduce the price.
Mr S remained unhappy with BUPAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he explained that 
were not able to tell BUPA how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover 
that risk. But he was satisfied that BUPA had shown how the increase in premium had been 
calculated. And so he didnt think the evidence indicated that BUPA had treated Mr S 
unfairly. Nor did he think BUPA needed to assess whether Mr S was able to afford the 
insurance contract.
Mr S disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think BUPA has treated him fairly and  
Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within this 
decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules require 
me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr S. We dont generally tell  
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk.  
BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk  
(in this case, claims relating to Mr S health). And if it does, what price it needs to charge for 
that. 
So BUPA will have assessed the risk of Mr S needing to make a claim when he first joined 
the BUPA By You scheme and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk 
has gone up (for example, because the risk-profile has increased or because health care 
costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. So in complaints like these, 
what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the premium and whether 
its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied Mr S has been treated in the same way as 
any other BUPA customer in similar circumstances and that he hasnt been singled out in 
any way. 
Its clear that at the 2023 renewal, Mr S premium increased significantly. So I can 
understand why hes worried that BUPA might not have treated him reasonably. 
BUPA has provided me with commercially sensitive, confidential information to show how  
the renewal price in 2023 was calculated. Im afraid that Im unable to share this information 
with Mr S, but I hope it reassures him to know that I have considered this evidence carefully. 
What I am able to tell Mr S though are the main reasons for the price increase. Its clear that 
there was a 15% drop in Mr S no claims discount  which drops in line with a published 
scale if claims are made on the policy during the previous policy year. And there was also an 
overall increase in the scheme price.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPAs treated Mr S in the same way it would treat 
any other policyholder who held a BUPA By You policy in similar circumstances to his own. 
So I cant reasonably find that its treated him unfairly.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that BUPA has treated him unreasonably because it didnt 
take account of his financial circumstances when it calculated his policy price. However, as 
Ive set out above, we wont generally tell an insurer how it should calculate price or what 
factors it should take into account when doing so. Thats a matter for the regulator.
Mr S has also complained about the service hes received from BUPA. I understand that Mr 
S feels let down by BUPA, but ultimately, its open to him to decide whether or not he wishes 
to renew his contract with it. He is free to explore cover elsewhere with another insurer. I 
appreciate Mr S says he cant reduce the level of cover or cancel his policy because he 
needs the cover in place given his medical history. Thats a matter of Mr S choice  he isnt 
obliged to remain with BUPA. Im satisfied that BUPA has made Mr S aware of the options to 
discuss his cover level with it to look into ways of reducing the price  as Id reasonably 
expect it to do.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr S position, I dont think BUPA has treated him 
unfairly and so Im not telling it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman