The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited wont allow her to cash in 
her annuity for a lump sum.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
At the time Mrs H took out her annuity, she didnt have the option to take it all as a lump 
sum. Her options were restricted to the legislation present at the time.
Since then legislation around annuities has changed over the years. And due to the pension 
freedoms legislation, providers can now offer customers the opportunity to take the whole 
fund as a lump sum rather than taking an annuity. But this did not stretch to annuities 
already in payment.
The government did also consider introducing a secondary annuity market at one point. But, 
after consultation, this proposal didnt proceed, this was largely because of concerns that it 
wouldnt be in consumers best interest to cash in annuities. And the complexities around 
valuing this and whether this would provide fair value to customers.
So current legislation generally does not allow a customer to cash in an annuity and take a 
lump sum payment. However, in instances where the value of that annuity is less than 
£10,000, it can be cashed in if the provider chooses to offer this. Prudential has said it has 
chosen not to offer this option to its customers.
I notice Prudential didnt directly refer to Mrs Hs annuity or its value and just explained its 
general stance. But in any event ,I dont think Mrs Hs annuity could be paid as a lump sum 
to her even if Prudential did offer this. I say this because the likely value of Mrs Hs annuity 
exceeds £10,000.
Mrs H has looked at the value of her pot when the annuity commenced and deducted what 
shes received so far to come to a figure just below £10,000. But the valuation of her annuity 
is not that simple. Mrs M has a dependants pension and a five year guarantee attached to 
her annuity. This makes her annuity more expensive to provide. If Mrs H now at her current 
age tried to buy an annuity of over a £1,000 a year with a five year guarantee and a 50% 
dependants pension, I think it would cost well in excess of £10,000. 
Mrs H argues that Prudential is treating her unfairly and being obstructive in not allowing her 
to cash in her annuity. But even taking aside the potential value of Mrs Hs annuity, when 
DRN-1874778Prudential set up Mrs H annuity it entered into an agreement to pay her an annuity for life. 
And Prudential made clear at the time that this could not be cashed in once set up. So I dont 
think Prudential is treating Mrs H unfairly, it is administering the annuity in line with the 
lifetime contract agreed at the time.
I appreciate that its frustrating for Mrs H that the legislation has since changed. And had she 
taken her benefits later she wouldve had more flexibility around her choices. But this isnt 
something I can hold Prudential responsible for. The pension freedoms legislation was not 
retrospective and the secondary annuity market proposal was shelved by the government.
Mrs H has also raised points regarding the sale of the initial policy and her choices when she 
came to take her benefits. If Mrs H has concerns about the initial pension policy sale and the 
annuity purchase, she needs to raise this separately first with Prudential.
In conclusion, I can understand Mrs Hs frustrations but I wont be upholding this complaint.
My decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15July2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman