DRN-2752337
The complaint
Ms B complained because Vanquis Bank Limited refused to refund her for a transaction 
which she said she hadnt authorised.
What happened
Ms B didnt recognise two transactions on her Vanquis credit card. She then found out that 
one of them had been made by her sister, who was staying with her. On 30 June 2020, Ms B 
told Vanquis that she didnt recognise the other transaction. This was for an item imported 
from abroad for the equivalent of £36.94. Ms B said she lives with her four children and 
when shes at work she leaves the card available in case her sister or her nanny wants to 
use it. Ms B said no-one said theyd made this transaction.
Vanquis investigated. It told Ms B it had credited her account with £36.94, but said that if it 
received any information from the merchant, it might need to continue investigations.
The merchant sent Vanquis information to show that the purchase had been authorised 
using Ms Bs name, address and email address. So Vanquis wrote to Ms B on 13 August, 
saying it was holding her liable. It re-debited the £36.94 on 23 September.
Ms B said she wanted to know what had been purchased and where it had been delivered. 
Vanquis told her it had been to buy a blender/food processor, and the shipping address had 
been the one Vanquis held on Ms Bs account.
Ms B complained. In its final response, Vanquis said that it was holding her liable because it 
believed the transaction had been correctly authorised. Ms B wasnt satisfied and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. He thought it was most likely that Ms B had 
authorised the transaction herself. If her sister or nanny had made it, it would still count as 
authorised by Ms B, who had told Vanquis she left the card for them to use.
The investigator also pointed out that the payment had been made through Ms Bs online 
payment account, the details of which were on Ms Bs home computer. Shed also told 
Vanquis that she stored her card login details on her computer. So the investigator said the 
transaction could only have been made from Ms Bs home computer, and whoever used the 
card must have been at Ms Bs address. 
Ms B had said the item hadnt been delivered, but the investigator said hed seen tracking 
evidence showing it had been delivered to the UK with Ms Bs correct address. It couldnt be 
tracked further, but it wasnt likely a fraudster would have had something delivered to Ms Bs 
address.
Ms B didnt agree. She said the investigator should have asked Royal Mail to verify that the 
purchase had been delivered to her home. She also said Vanquis shouldnt have re-debited 
the disputed amount without her consent. And she believed that Vanquis was teaming up 
with the thief if a family member, friend or partner had stolen from a card holder but Vanquis 
wouldnt refund her. She said Vanquis also hadnt notified her that it was going to re-debit 
the disputed amount.
The investigator explained that the issue was whether Ms B had authorised the transaction, 
not whether it had or hadnt been delivered. But Ms B wasnt satisfied and said we should 
contact Royal Mail. She asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations 
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in June 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Vanquis) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Vanquis has provided evidence which shows that Ms Bs genuine card was used and was 
authenticated on an internet transaction. So the disputed payment was  authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payment. This online disputed transaction was a distance contract. The Consumer Credit 
Act (CCA) 1974 also applies here, because a credit facility (here, Ms Bs card) has been 
used. The next step for all of these regulations is to decide whether or not the customer 
authorised the payment.  In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise 
the payment, and the customer is liable if he or she did authorise them. 
Ms B told Vanquis on a recorded call that when she was at work, she left the card in case 
her sister or nanny wanted to use it. She also said that she wrote down the security details 
on her home computer. So if Ms Bs sister or nanny used the card and Ms Bs security 
details to carry out the payment, this would count as Ms B having authorised it.
Who authorised the disputed payment?
Ive looked at the evidence to see who was most likely to have authorised the disputed 
payment.
Ms V said that when she was at home, the card was secure in her purse within her handbag 
in her bedroom.  When she went out, she left it at home for her sister and nanny to use. The 
genuine card was used, so I cant see how a third party fraudster could have accessed the 
card to make the transaction.
And its also most unlikely that a third party fraudster would have instructed the merchant to 
send the purchase to Ms Bs home address  because they wouldnt have been able to 
benefit. Ive seen the merchants evidence showing that this was where the purchase was 
sent.
The purchase also brought the balance on Ms Bs credit card to a figure very close to her 
£500 limit. Typically, a fraudster would try to steal a larger amount than £36.94, and theres 
no evidence to show that a larger amount was initially attempted.  I consider its more likely 
than not that whoever authorised the payment knew what Ms Bs credit limit was. This again 
means its likely that it was authorised by Ms B or one of her household.The disputed purchase was also for a relatively low value household items. The other 
transactions on Ms Bs Vanquis card are generally of a similar type. This also doesnt fit the 
pattern of a typical third party fraudster.
Ive also borne in mind that the technical information shows that Ms Bs Vanquis app was 
accessed at 20:48 on 22 June. The disputed transaction was processed at 21:56. The app 
was also accessed the next morning, and several more times before Ms B contacted 
Vanquis.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Ms B or one of 
her household authorised the disputed transaction. This means that Vanquis doesnt have to 
refund her.
Other matters
Ms B has repeatedly said that we should contact Royal Mail about the delivery of the item. 
But the role of this service isnt to investigate complaints about postal deliveries.  Its to 
investigate Ms Bs complaint about Vanquis, and to decide whether or not Vanquis treated 
Ms B fairly when it refused to refund her. And what determines that is whether or not Ms B or 
her household authorised the payment. Ive referred above to the merchants evidence about 
where the purchase was sent to  but thats because it proves that whoever authorised it 
knew Ms Bs address. Whether or not the item arrived doesnt make any difference to the 
outcome of Ms Bs complaint against Vanquis.
Ms B also believes that Vanquis shouldnt have re-debited the disputed amount without her 
consent. She said it wasnt a usual practice anywhere in the world for a bank to uphold the 
transaction against the wishes of the cardholder. The credit which Vanquis made to Ms Bs 
account when she reported the transaction was a temporary credit, while it investigated. I 
find that Vanquis was entitled to re-debit the account when it received evidence from the 
merchant that the purchaser had used Ms B s name, address and other personal details.  
Vanquis didnt need Ms Bs consent to re-debit it. 
I also recognise that Ms B said she didnt receive Vanquis 13 August letter telling her that 
the disputed amount would be re-debited in late September. But I accept that it was sent, 
and it doesnt make a difference to the outcome whether or not Ms B received it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman