DRN-1734938
 
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the service Lloyds Bank Plc has provided in relation to the 
overdraft facility she had in place on her current account she held with it.
What happened
Miss P has said in April 2015 she was in a position to start clearing her outstanding balance 
on her overdraft facility she held with Lloyds. So, she went to her local branch to arrange 
this.
When Miss P arrived at the branch, she says she was asked to go into a meeting room with 
two advisors, she says at this point she was advised not to clear the overdraft facility 
because she wasn't financially in a position to do so. While Miss P says she didnt agree, 
she took the advisors advice and kept the facility open. As a result Miss P says she has 
incurred charges and interest on her account every month. Miss P would like these charges 
removed. So, she complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds looked into Miss Ps complaint. It said it couldnt find any notes of interactions with 
Miss P in April 2015. However, it did say there was evidence to suggest Miss P visited the 
branch once to enquire about her balance. Lloyds also said the charges and interest had 
been applied correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Miss P and 
her representative didnt agree. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld. To 
summarise he said as Miss P hadnt complained about the charges being applied incorrectly, 
so he had only considered the advice she said she received in branch, to not clear her 
outstanding balance on her overdraft facility. He went on to say that there is a dispute over 
what happened the day Miss P visited the branch, and as he was not present during that 
discussion, he cant be certain what was discussed. However as the branch staff offer a non 
advised service, and Miss P would have seen the terms and conditions before opening an 
account, he felt it was more likely the staff provided Miss P with information rather than 
advise, and therefore, it was still up to Miss P to choose how she wished to move forward. 
Miss P and her representative didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the case was 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account. Having done so I am satisfied 
Lloyds clearly outline when charges will be applied and how to avoid charges being applied. Before opening the account, Miss P would have had to sign to say she agreed to the terms 
and conditions of the account including the terms of the overdraft facility. So I think it is 
reasonable to suggest Miss P was or ought to have been aware of how charges and interest 
would be applied.
I have gone on to consider the advice Miss P says she received when she visited the branch 
on 15 April 2019. I have reviewed all contact/system notes Lloyds holds on file, having done 
so, I cant see that any conversations were recorded. This is not to say I doubt Miss Ps 
versions of events, but I cant be certain what was discussed. 
So, I have also considered what Miss Ps intentions were when she visited the branch that 
day. In her testimony she said, she wanted to start paying off her overdraft and went into 
branch to do this. On balance, I think it is likely that even if the advisors had discouraged 
Miss P from repaying her overdraft, she was in a position where she thought she could 
financially afford to do so, and she understood how the overdraft facility worked and how she 
would be charged. So, if Miss P wanted to start repaying her overdraft she would have done 
so, despite the information the branch advisors provided. After reviewing her statement and 
seeing the charges that had been applied, if Miss P remained unhappy she could have 
started repaying her overdraft sooner as she was aware she could do this.
So, on balance and considering the branch staff dont provide an advisory service, I cant 
fairly conclude Miss P was given that advice and refrained from repaying her overdraft 
because of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman