DRN-2082877
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my
decision.
Mrs H says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a card account Mrs H took out in 1991. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before
adding it to her card. I cant be certain what was said when Allianz sold the PPI to Mrs H so 
Ive based my decision on the information available from the time.
Allianz has provided a copy of the application form Mrs H completed when she applied for
her card and PPI. The form had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the 
policy has been selected. The form has also been signed in agreement with the information
on it. So, with the information available I think its likely Allianz made it clear the PPI was
optional and Mrs H chose to have it.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But I think she chose to take it out knowing the other means she had of making
her repayments, which included generous sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Hs sick pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. And it looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said, but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman