DRN-2432253
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE wont refund part of their travel 
insurance premiums to them. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes.
The policy was purchased through a broker on 6 January 2020, to cover a trip from 5 March
2020 to 25 March 2020. Mr and Mrs G paid £505.91 for the insurance, which covered their
declared medical conditions, and included a discount of £68.81.
On 23 March 2020, Mr and Mrs G contacted Great Lakes to cancel their policy because their
trip had been cut short one week early due to Covid-19. Mr and Mrs G therefore asked Great
Lakes for a refund of the premium proportionate to the unused week of their policy.
Great Lakes said Mr and Mrs G werent entitled to any refund under the terms and
conditions of their policy. However, Great Lakes subsequently offered Mr and Mrs G a
voucher for £43 as a gesture of goodwill, which could be used to buy a travel insurance
policy in the future.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept Great Lakes offer. They say they wouldnt be taking out any
future insurance policies with Great Lakes because of the way this matter has been handled.
They also believe the £43 voucher which theyve been offered doesnt cover the cost of one
week of unused premiums.
As Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She concluded that Mr and Mrs G werent
entitled to any refund under either industry guidelines or their policy terms and conditions.
She said Great Lakes had gone beyond what it was required to do by offering Mr and Mrs G
a voucher reflecting the cost of 3 unused days of cover from 23 March 2020 to 25 March
2020.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me.
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr and Mrs G said they returned from holiday on
19 March 2020 so any refund or voucher calculation offered by Great Lakes should reflect 7
days (and not 3 days) of unused premiums.
I sent a second provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Gs case in November 2020. In it, I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says certain insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs G held have a cooling off
period of up to 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any
reason. This is called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs G didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry
rules, even if Mr and Mrs G had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled
to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them
cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your policy documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy was purchased on 6 January 2020 and cancelled on 23 March 2020.
This was more than 14 days after they bought the policy. And, Mr and Mrs G travelled under
their insurance policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type ofsituation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term
relating to discretion is intended to cover.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs G are entitled to any refund of premiums under the
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
complaint.
I understand the duration of Mr and Mrs Gs trip  and therefore the ongoing need for this
single trip insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive 
thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs contract because of the
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties
to the insurance contract.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Gs contract with Great Lakes to
be performed  cover under the policy started on 6 January 2020.
Mr and Mrs G werent just insured for the dates they did travel. The price set by Great Lakes
also covered Mr and Mrs G for cancellation cover from 6 January 2020. So, the premium Mr
and Mrs G paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a
number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr and/or Mrs G
falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs G making a successful claim on the policy
from 6 January 2020 as well as while they travelled until their holiday was cut short on 19
March 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced
to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Gs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes
to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time.
However, after Mr and Mrs G returned early from their trip on 19 March 2020 due to Covid-
19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr and Mrs Gs insurance policy.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs G
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy
from 19 March 2020, the date their trip was curtailed until the original end date of their policy.
The calculation of the refund
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period
of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculatingthe premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly or any differently to other customers in
similar circumstances.
The premium Mr and Mrs G paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 80 days
from 6 January 2020 to 25 March 2020, the original end date of the policy.
Mr and Mrs G returned home early on 19 March 2020, so they are entitled to a refund of
premiums equivalent to a maximum of 7 unused days of cover.
However, when calculated according to the formula Great Lakes use to determine the value
of unused premiums taking into account the discount that was originally applied to their
policy, no refund is due to Mr and Mrs G for 7 unused days of cover.
Great Lakes has instead offered Mr and Mrs G a voucher for £43, valued at Great Lakes
discretion.
The voucher is valid for 36 months and can be used towards any policy provided by the
broker who sold the original policy.
I understand why Mr and Mrs G may not wish to use a voucher but, as Great Lakes
calculations mean no refund is due to them for the period 19 March 2020 to 25 March 2020,
I think the voucher which Great Lakes has offered goes beyond what it is required to do.
This means I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I wont
be asking it to do anything further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G responded to my second provisional decision, but Great Lakes didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G arent entitled to a refund of their premiums under either insurance industry 
regulations or under the terms and conditions of their policy with Great Lakes. And I dont 
think the situation Mr and Mrs G found themselves in constitutes an exceptional 
circumstance of the kind outlined in Great Lakes policy terms. But, thats not to say I dont 
think this was an exceptional circumstance in broader terms. 
Because of the unique and exceptional circumstances surrounding Covid-19, I agree that it 
would be fair and reasonable for a pro-rata refund to be provided to Mr and Mrs G from the 
date they returned home until the original end date of their policy. However, Mr and Mrs G 
arent entitled to any pro-rata refund because of the way Great Lakes calculates its 
premiums. The voucher which Great Lakes has offered isnt a refund  its a gesture of 
goodwill which Great Lakes has made at its own discretion.  
I understand Mr and Mrs G dont wish to use Great Lakes voucher. Thats up to them. But 
the offer of a voucher is more than what I think Great Lakes is required to do in the 
circumstances.Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I wont be recommending for Great Lakes to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should provide Mr and Mrs G with the voucher already offered, as 
I think the offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman