DRN-1645515
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc have been unable to locate his savings account and 
pay him the money he says was outstanding in the account.
What happened
Mr M says he recently rediscovered a passbook slip for a savings account which showed a 
balance of around £735 in 1975. Mr M gave HSBC a copy of the passbook slip to help them 
find the account. Mr M wants HSBC to locate the account and to pay him the outstanding 
balance along with any other savings accrued from 1975.
HSBC said that they performed an extensive search of their records and werent able to find 
this account. HSBC said due to the passage of time they were unable to say what had 
happened with the outstanding amount. In view of their long-standing relationship with Mr M 
and to recognise any inconvenience caused, HSBC offered Mr M £150 compensation.
Mr M remained unhappy with HSBCs response, so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns. He said he was satisfied that HSBC carried out the 
necessary checks to locate Mr Ms account and that the £150 compensation HSBC offered 
Mr M was fair. Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed again. So its 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M feels strongly about this and I understand that he wants to know why HSBC 
can't find his account. But I don't think HSBC need to do anything more in trying to find the 
account - which I know will disappoint Mr M, so I'll explain why.
Mr M has provided evidence showing that the account existed. He has sent us a copy of the 
passbook slip which shows that in 1975, there was a balance of around £735 in the account.
HSBC have sent us a screenshot of the searches carried out on their systems in order to 
locate Mr Ms savings account. HSBC have tried to locate his account using Mr Ms personal 
details such as his name, date of birth and his address. Despite using this information, they 
were still unable to locate an account from 1975 on their system. Mr M hasnt been able to 
provide HSBC with the sort code and account number for the account.
HSBC have also carried out a search of all accounts held by Mr M - including those held in 
the past. But the results showed no trace of this account on their system. HSBC say they are 
legally bound to keep records for six years. That's not unusual or unreasonable. So having 
thought about this, I think it's unlikely Mr M's account has an outstanding balance and is 
dormant.
As HSBC have been unable to identify any details regarding the account or an outstanding 
balance, I think on balance it's more likely the account had been closed and the outstanding  balance paid out. Ive no doubt that this claim has been made in the 
genuine belief that Mr M still has an account with HSBC, but I dont have enough evidence to 
make that finding.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for and I can understand this must be 
frustrating for him. HSBC has offered Mr M £150 compensation and hes free to accept this if 
he wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr 
M £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman