DRN-1129348
 
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC treated her when in financial 
difficulties.
What happened
Miss M says Barclays changed its overdraft charges in 2014 which caused her overdraft 
charges to increase from about £7 a month to over £60 a month. She says she called 
Barclays in July 2014 for help and for it to consider giving her a loan. But it failed to treat her 
fairly or sympathetically and wouldn't help her. Miss M says the lack of help caused a spiral 
of debt and the lack of notice of the change meant she couldn't get out of her debt. She 
would like a refund of the charges from July 2014.
Barclays says the charges were applied in line with the account terms and conditions and 
Miss M allowed various transactions to be presented knowing there wasn't enough money in 
her account. It says it has no record of Miss M asking it for help or support.
Miss M unhappy with that response brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and didn't uphold it. In summary he thought the charges were applied in line 
with the account terms and conditions and didn't think there was any record of Miss M 
contacting Barclays about her financial difficulties. The investigator didn't think there was any 
record of a loan being applied for.
Miss M doesn't accept that view and says she called Barclays in August 2014 whilst on 
holiday in Turkey. She says she could ask the hotel she stayed in for evidence of that call 
but says she didn't say she had applied for a loan. Miss M believes Barclays has deleted 
records of her call and says she told it about her diagnosis of depression.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Miss M will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I'm satisfied that Barclays gave Miss M notice of the changes it made to overdraft charges in 
2014 and I've not seen any evidence that the charges were incorrectly applied to her 
account. I can see that Miss M accepts that Barclays is entitled to make such changes and 
the issue here is if Barclays acted positively and sympathetically when it became aware of 
Miss M's financial difficulties.
I have looked through Barclays records and I can't see any record of contact from Miss M 
during 2014 or at any stage about any financial difficulties she may have been in. I 
appreciate that Miss M says she called Barclays about  her financial difficulties whilst on 
holiday in Turkey in August 2014. In those circumstances I would have expected a record  of that call on Barclays records. And I think it unlikely that Barclays would have deleted that 
record as Miss M suggests. So I think on balance that Barclays hadn't been told about Miss 
M's financial difficulties and I don't think it could have acted positively and sympathetically.
I would have expected Miss M to have contacted Barclays again after the call she says she 
made from Turkey in any event . I think it unlikely that the position could have been resolved 
in one call and that Barclays would have asked Miss M for details of her income and 
outgoings. I would have also expected Miss M to have applied for the loan if she thought it 
appropriate and that it unlikely Barclays would have refused that loan request without an 
application. I appreciate that it would be difficult for Miss M to get evidence of the call from 
Turkey and I can see that she says that holiday was ruined. But I can't see why Miss M 
called Barclays from Turkey or that she has explained why there wasn't a follow up call on 
her return home.
I appreciate that Miss M has a mental health problem and I accept that a bank or building 
society ought to consider such matters when dealing with these sorts of issues. But as I 
have made clear , I'm satisfied that Barclays wasn't made aware of any health or finance 
problems and so couldn't reasonably be expected to provide support in those circumstances.
Overall I'm satisfied that Barclays hasn't acted unfairly or made a mistake here and so I can't 
fairly order it to refund any charges applied to Miss M's account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman