DRN-3667846
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc did not make proper affordability checks when 
it agreed to two loans in August 2019 and February 2020.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M applied for a loan of £7,500, which he said was to pay for a holiday. 
Bank of Ireland agreed to the loan, which was payable over five years at just over £157 a 
month.
In February 2020 Mr M applied for a second loan, this time of £4,500. He said the loan was 
needed to consolidate other debt. Again, the bank agreed to the loan, which was payable 
over five years at just under £111 a month.
In or about September 2021 Mr M contacted Bank of Ireland to say that he did not believe 
appropriate checks had been carried out when he applied for the loans to ensure that he 
could afford to repay them.
Bank of Ireland responded to say that it believed it had carried out appropriate checks before 
agreeing to the loans. Those checks were, it said, automated (meaning there was no manual 
intervention) and had been largely based on information which Mr M had provided and on 
credit checks. That information and those checks had not suggested that either loan would 
be unaffordable or that further enquiries were needed at the time. The bank noted that, at 
the time Mr M raised his complaint, payments on both loans were up to date and that there 
were no arrears.
Mr M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He took the view that Bank of Ireland should have investigated Mr Ms overall 
finances in more detail than it had and that, had it done so, it would have concluded that 
neither loan was affordable. He recommended that Bank of Ireland refund all interest and  
charges on the loans and remove any negative credit information recorded against Mr Ms 
name in relation to them.
Bank of Ireland did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. It thought that it had made reasonable and proportionate 
checks before agreeing to the loans. It said too that removing credit information would 
enable Mr M to continue borrowing.
I reviewed the case and, because I thought it likely that I would reach a different conclusion 
from that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In my provisional 
decision I said:
Banks and other lenders are required to assess the affordability of a loan before agreeing to 
it. In doing so, they must carry out proportionate checks in order to assess not only whether 
they are likely to be repaid, but also whether the loan is affordable for the customer. That 
means that the customer should be able to repay the loan without undue difficulty over its full 
term. What is reasonable and proportionate will not be the same in every case but will 
depend on the individual circumstances.
In the case of both these loans, Bank of Ireland sought information from Mr M about his 
income, outgoings, and other commitments. Its lending decisions were largely based on the 
information he had provided and information it had obtained from credit reference agencies. 
In respect of the first loan, the investigator noted that the consequences for Mr M of not 
being able to repay the loan were significant. He thought that this meant that the bank ought 
to have sought to obtain a greater level of understanding of his finances. It should have 
carried out more detailed checks.
The investigator also noted that, had more detailed checks been carried out, Bank of Ireland 
would have identified that Mr M had recently taken out a £5,000 guarantor loan and opened 
two credit card accounts with a total credit limit of over £7,000. Mr M also had an overdraft of 
around £3,000.
In addition, Mr M was not living with his partner at the time, but was contributing to their 
housing costs, as well as paying his own. His bank statements indicated too that he was 
spending significant sums on gambling.
Mr Ms income and expenditure when he applied for the second loan were not significantly 
different from what they had been when he took out the first loan. His debt profile had 
changed, however. He had used the first loan to repay a loan (not for a holiday, as the 
application had said), but his credit card debt had increased. He was still using an overdraft. 
I cannot say whether Bank of Irelands lending decisions would have been different if it had 
identified all or any of these matters before agreeing the loans. I think it quite likely that they 
would have been. It might have agreed to lend less, or to decline one or both applications.
The issue I have to consider, however, is not whether  with more information  the bank 
would have made a different decision. I need to consider whether it should have undertaken 
more detailed affordability checks than it did.
As I have indicated, the affordability checks that a prospective lender must take depend on 
the circumstances. But they should be reasonable and proportionate.
The investigator here took the view that more checks should have been made because of 
the likely consequences if Mr M were to default. I accept of course that, if Mr M had 
defaulted on either loan, there would have been serious consequences for him. I do not 
believe however that this, of itself, meant that the banks checks were insufficient.
There was nothing in the application or on Mr Ms credit file to suggest that he would not be 
able to afford repayments. It is true that he had taken on further debt and obtained credit 
cards shortly before he took out the first loan. But that would not have been apparent from 
his credit file, which was not updated until later. He had been paying his existing 
commitments.
I note as well that Mr M was able to make payments to both loans. That does not necessarily 
mean that proper checks were carried out before they were agreed, of course, but it 
supports the banks position.
In addition, the bank made it clear in the loan applications that it would rely on information 
provided by Mr M in its assessment of those applications. Mr M did not provide full 
information about, for example, his housing costs. And he said that the first loan was for a 
holiday, but he then used it to consolidate debt. The primary obligation to assess affordability 
lies with the lender, of course, and it cannot simply rely on information provided by the borrower. Nevertheless, I do not think in this case that the bank was wrong to take into 
account what Mr M had told it when assessing the applications.
In respect of the second loan  which Mr M said was to consolidate debt  the investigator 
took the view that repaying credit card debt could have the effect of giving Mr M access to 
further credit, because he would then be able to spend again up to his credit limits. I do not 
think however that I can fairly say that the bank should have approached the application on 
that basis. If Mr M had appreciated the need to consolidate debt, it would have been fair to 
assume that he was trying to reduce, not increase, his overall exposure.
For these reasons, my current view is that Bank of Irelands assessments were proportionate 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I do not believe that anything in the applications or in 
the credit reports that suggested further checks were necessary.
Even if I were to take a different view on that, however, I do not believe that the remedy 
suggested by the investigator is fair. Since both loans were used to consolidate existing 
debt, Mr M is likely to have saved on interest payments. Had the loans, or either of them, 
been declined, Mr M would still have had to pay interest to other lenders.
In addition, removing any reference to the loans would, as the bank says, given an 
inaccurate picture of Mr Ms financial circumstances to other potential lenders, making it 
easier for him to borrow in the future. That in my view is not consistent with his case that the 
loans were not affordable.
In response to my provisional decision, Bank of Ireland said that it had nothing to add. 
Mr M clarified that he did not expect the loans to be written off but that his main concern was 
to have adverse credit information removed from his file. He also said, in summary:
He has entered into a debt management, arranged through a debt advice charity. He 
now has a very low credit score, which means he cannot borrow any more.
Bank of Ireland did not question him about the running costs of his other property, which 
should have been considered in the affordability assessment.
The bank should have explored his situation in more detail and not relied on the 
information he provided on his application and the credit score alone. 
The bank should have requested bank statements from him. It was not clear that the 
ombudsman had reviewed the bank statements.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should clarify that, before I issued my provisional decision, I did consider all the available 
evidence about Mr Ms financial situation, including evidence which had not been considered 
by the bank before it made its lending decisions. The evidence I considered included Mr Ms 
bank statements. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I think it likely that the banks lending decisions would 
have been different if it had had a fuller picture of Mr Ms finances. That, however, is not 
what I have to decide. I must consider whether, in the circumstances, the checks that the 
bank made were reasonable and proportionate. In my view, they were.I accept too that Bank of Ireland could have requested further information from Mr M. It 
would not necessarily have been unreasonable or disproportionate to have done so. It does 
not follow however that it was obliged to seek more information or to check the information it 
had been given by Mr M. As I say, it was entitled to assume, in the absence of clear 
indications to the contrary, that Mr M had provided that information honestly and in full. 
Although Mr M has not provided any further information on the point, I remain of the view 
that it is far from clear that declining the loan applications would have benefited him. He was 
consolidating existing debt, not taking on new debt. If the bank had turned down his 
applications, it is likely that his overall debt and financial circumstances would have been 
much the same as they are now.     
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman