DRN-4127206
The complaint
Mr A has complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his motor insurance policy after his car was involved in an accident 
colliding with a third party. When esure looked into the claim for him it paid a cash settlement 
in relation to the body work that was damaged. But Mr A wasnt happy about this as he felt 
there was mechanical damage as well in relation to his rear suspension that was caused by 
the accident. 
When he complained to esure about this it maintained its position. It said its engineer had 
looked at Mr As car and as mechanical damage wasnt identified it thought its position was 
reasonable. So, Mr A complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. She thought 
esure didnt have sufficient evidence to say that Mr As car didnt sustain any mechanical 
damage. She initially suggested that esure should look again at Mr As car to assess the 
suspension/wheel alignment problem. But Mr A had sold the car given the passage of time 
and had paid for the suspension problem in order to get the car through its MOT and to 
subsequently sell the car. So, she thought the fair and reasonable thing to do was for esure 
to pay half the cost Mr A incurred in paying to rectify the suspension problem.
As esure didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
Although I can understand why esure thought the damage to Mr As car was only in relation 
to the body work initially, I dont understand why its initial engineer didnt ensure the 
mechanical issue was considered alongside the damaged bodywork. I say this as Mr A 
made it clear he also had a mechanical problem in relation to his rear suspension/wheel 
alignment and its possible that this was caused by the accident and the impact between the 
two cars involved. But when esures engineer inspected Mr As car they only undertook a 
cursory external check outside Mr As address as they didnt have the keys to the car. And 
this was despite esures instruction which said that the car needed to be booked in for a 
wheel alignment check as well. 
It is possible Mr As car had a wheel alignment or suspension problem that was caused by 
the accident and the fact that his car wasnt fully inspected means I cant be sure one way or 
the other about this. It is possible the car did have mechanical damage as well as body work 
damage caused by the accident. Indeed, when Mr A provided some evidence in support of 
his position to this Service (suggesting his car had a possible suspension issue) esures 
engineer acknowledged that this was a possibility. And in his initial engineers report he 
acknowledged some wheel damage and that some wheel alignment documentation would 
be necessary in order to consider this possibility further. So, it is surprising esure didnt get 
Mr As car inspected in relation to possible mechanical damage at this point in time if not 
earlier.
Mr A has gone onto get his car fully repaired in order to pass its MOT and to sell his car 
which is understandable, but it also makes it difficult to establish for sure if his suspension 
problem was linked to the accident or not. However, esures engineer did suggest this was a 
possibility and esure specifically asked for this issue to be considered (including getting a 
wheel alignment report) when it approached the engineer. And given this I agree with our 
investigator that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for esure to pay half of the cost Mr A incurred in paying to have his suspension 
problem repaired before selling his car (£900 in total).
I think this feels fair given Mr A said there was a problem after the accident with the wheel 
alignment of the car and esure didnt fully get to the bottom of this. And esures engineer 
highlighted that there may be other steps that could be taken to help with the alignment 
problem which would have been cheaper. So, paying half of Mr As costs here, plus 8% 
simple interest for the time Mr A has been without the money, feels fair. I note esure have 
questioned Mr As repair invoice and the total he paid to repair his car which included the 
body work damage. But Mr A has explained the garage made an error on the invoice which 
seems reasonable and it is clear that a suspension or wheel alignment problem was 
identified during the early stages of the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £900 plus 8% simple interest from the date the cost was 
incurred until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman