DRN-3678111
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of some solar panels.
Mrs P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs P bought solar panels for her home in February 2019. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mrs P says the installer misled her into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs P and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Ikano challenged our services right to consider this complaint on the ground that Mrs P had 
never complained to Ikano about its response to her claim under section 75. It is true that the 
CMC brought this complaint directly to us instead of to Ikano. But I can see that one of my 
colleagues forwarded the complaint to Ikano on 15 December 2021, and Ikano 
acknowledged receipt on the same day. From that date, Ikano had eight weeks to consider 
Mrs Ps complaint about the outcome of her claim. That time expired on 9 February 2022. 
On 5 July our adjudicator explained to Ikano that this complaint was therefore within our 
jurisdiction, and I agree.
The adjudicator gave his assessment of this complaint on 9 August, which he was entitled to 
do. I am grateful to the CMC for providing him with all of the evidence he needed to consider 
this complaint.
Misrepresentation
However, having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. 
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the 
cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures, setting out the bottom and 
top of a potential range; the highest figure is £418.42. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is 
not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the finance amount is £6,495, payable 
over three years. This document was signed by Mrs P immediately below those figures, and 
so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to her attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mrs P could 
be forgiven for overlooking it. However, one third of the amount borrowed would clearly 
come to over £2,000 each year. That is about five times the stated benefit figure for the first 
year. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs P about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
