DRN-2063087
The complaint
The estate of Mr Y (the estate) complains that TenetConnect Services Limited 
(TenetConnect) was paid adviser fees but didnt provide any service or advice to Mr Y in 
exchange for this. The estate also complains about the adequacy of TenetConnects 
handling of this complaint. To put things right, the estate wants all adviser fees deducted 
from Mr Ys pension plan refunded.
Scope of this final decision 
The estate complains about adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys pension plan following 
pension switch advice in July 2013. Adviser fees were deducted from his plan until                 
August 2019. Mr Y was a client of the same regulated adviser during this period. The estate 
believes the adviser is personally accountable for the issues complained about. This isnt 
true. Rather, the two regulated businesses the adviser represented during this period are 
accountable for his actions and/or omissions and investigating any complaints.
The two businesses are separate legal entities and unconnected from a regulatory point of 
view  this is demonstrated by the fact they have separate reference numbers on the 
financial services register. Therefore the complaint has been severed in two so that the 
issues can be considered separately against each business. This is because TenetConnect 
isnt responsible for the acts and/or omissions of the adviser when he represented the 
unconnected business and vice versa. Both businesses have accepted that the complaints 
have been set up against them correctly. 
This final decision covers events from July 2013 to 7 March 2019. Events from 8 March 2019 
onwards when servicing of Mr Ys pension plan was transferred to the unconnected business 
have been considered under a separate final decision.
What happened
In July 2013, Mr Y met an adviser from Darlington Naley Taylor & Associates Limited which 
was an appointed representative of the principal business, TenetConnect. The adviser 
recorded Mr Ys circumstances at that time as follows:
He was 56 years old and married;
He had been employed as a lecturer since 2004 but had been off work due to long-
term illness since 2012;
He planned to retire at 65;
The marital home was valued at £200,000 and encumbered with an interest-only 
mortgage of £143,000;
He had unsecured debts of around £11,000;
He had savings of £3,000;
He had built up benefits in the Teachers Pension Scheme since 2004; 
He also had a private pension plan valued at about £78,000  this was invested in a 
managed fund and had an Annual Management Charge (AMC) of 1.05% plus a 
monthly plan fee of £3;
He had a cautious balanced attitude to risk; and
His objective was to review his pension plan to determine its ongoing suitability 
because he was concerned about the level of charges, service and performance of 
the provider
TenetConnect advised Mr Y to switch the value of his existing pension plan valued at about 
£78,000 into a new plan primarily to benefit from lower ongoing charges. The recommended 
new plan had the following charges:
2.5% initial advice fee based on the value switched into the new plan
0.25% ongoing annual adviser fee payable to TenetConnect
0.45% ongoing annual management charge payable to the plan provider 
The combined ongoing annual fees of 0.7% was based on the plan fund value, with a 
proportionate amount of the fee deducted daily throughout the year.
In late August 2019, Mr Y met the adviser to discuss his dissatisfaction about the lack of 
service and advice following the pension switch in 2013. The adviser accepted that he had 
provided a poor level of service since the switch and paid Mr Y £500 compensation  this 
offer was made by the adviser while representing TenetConnect, as confirmed by the 
letterhead on which the offer was made.
Although Mr Y accepted the £500 compensation, he felt he was entitled to a refund of all 
adviser fees deducted from his plan since July 2013 which amounted to about £3,000 
including the initial fee for the pension switch advice. In August 2019, Mr Y instructed the 
plan provider to stop paying the ongoing adviser fee to the unconnected business. He then 
complained and made several allegations against TenetConnect which can be summarised 
as follows:
The advice to switch in July 2013 wasnt suitable and led to him incurring 
unnecessary charges;
The adviser misled him to believe that he would achieve better investment growth by 
switching the value of his existing pension plan into a new plan;
Following the switch, adviser fees had been deducted from his plan, but he hadnt 
received any service or advice in exchange for this;
The adviser forged his signature on documents dated in 2015 and 2016;
TenetConnect had breached the FCAs principles and rules about the fair treatment 
of customers and breached his rights under the Equality Act 2010; and
The servicing of his plan had been transferred to the unconnected business on                     
8 March 2019 without his knowledge or consent
In its final response letter, TenetConnect rejected all elements of Mr Ys complaint except 
the part about it not providing ongoing service or advice following the pension switch in 
2013. To remedy the matter, it offered Mr Y a refund of the 0.25% ongoing annual adviser 
fees deducted from his plan during the period it was responsible for servicing less the £500 
compensation already paid (by the adviser) plus interest. 
Mr Y didnt accept TenetConnects offer and instead referred the matter to this service. In 
addition to the allegations above, he told us he was unhappy about TenetConnects handling of his complaint due to the length of time it took to respond and that he found its letters to be 
threatening and in breach of the Equality Act 2010.
Our investigator upheld in part Mr Ys complaint. She concluded the pension switch advice in 
2013 was suitable because it led to lower ongoing costs and matched Mr Ys attitude to risk. 
She acknowledged there was an initial advice fee which couldve been avoided had Mr Y 
stayed where he was, but concluded this would be recouped over the term to Mr Ys planned 
retirement age of 65 and that he wouldnt have opted to stay anyway because he was 
dissatisfied with the previous plan provider. She suggested that Mr Y should contact the 
police about his allegation of forged signatures since this is a criminal matter. She thought 
TenetConnects offer to refund ongoing adviser fees was reasonable. Since TenetConnect 
took longer than eight weeks to respond to Mr Ys complaint and that this matter had caused 
him a great deal of distress, she recommended that TenetConnect also pay him £200 
compensation (in addition to its offer to refund the ongoing adviser fees).
TenetConnect accepted our investigators opinion. But Mr Y didnt accept it since he thought 
£200 compensation didnt adequately reflect the significant distress hed experienced and 
still wanted all adviser fees refunded. Therefore this complaint has been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take account of relevant law, regulation, guidance 
and what I consider to be good industry practice. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think it most likely to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr Y recently passed away. Before going any further, Id like to offer my sincere 
condolences to his family for their loss. 
From reading the substantial correspondence, its clear the estate feels aggrieved about 
adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys plan and TenetConnects handling of this complaint. The 
estate says that when handling this complaint, TenetConnect knew Mr Y was disabled but 
harassed and intimidated him which breached his rights under the Equality Act 2010. The 
estate says TenetConnects unfair treatment had a detrimental impact on Mr Ys health and 
contributed to his death. Im very sorry to hear that Mr Ys family feel this way and will bear 
this is mind when reaching my final decision. 
Ill look at each issue separately.
Pension switch advice in 2013
In December 2008, the regulator issued a report titled Quality of advice on pension 
switching. The report summarised the findings of the regulators thematic review on the 
quality of advice given to customers to switch the value of their pensions into a new pension 
plan. The regulator stated:
We assessed advice as unsuitable when the outcome was the customer switching 
into one of the following:A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome 
involved assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for 
investment flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund 
performance, but there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; 
or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that 
this option was needed).
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a 
stakeholder pension would have met the customers needs.
A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different pension schemes, but 
where the extra cost was not explained or justified to the customer.
A new pension and the customer had lost benefits from their ceding pension (for 
example, guaranteed annuity rates) without these being explained or justified.
A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and personal 
circumstances.
A pension where there was the need for ongoing advice, but this had not been 
explained, or offered, or put in place.
Ive considered the regulators findings above to help me decide whether the pension switch 
advice provided to Mr Y was suitable. I havent seen any evidence the switch led to Mr Y 
losing benefits from his previous pension plan. Or that the switch didnt match his attitude to 
risk or circumstances. Overall, the pension switch led to Mr Y achieving lower costs over the 
term to his planned retirement age of 65 with a potential for improved investment returns. Its 
also a fact that Mr Y had other sources of guaranteed income in retirement from the State 
pension and Teachers Pension Scheme upon which he could rely. Therefore Im content 
that the pension switch advice was suitable and in Mr Ys best interests. So Ive decided that 
the 2.5% initial advice fee was justified and shouldnt be refunded.
Ongoing service and advice
In making this complaint Mr Y said he didnt want to pay ongoing adviser fees. But the 
evidence shows he agreed in July 2013 to pay an ongoing annual adviser fee of 0.25% from 
his pension plan to TenetConnect in exchange for yearly reviews. TenetConnect didnt 
provide ongoing servicing to Mr Y following the switch contrary to what was agreed. In 
recognition of this, its already offered a refund of the 0.25% ongoing annual adviser fees 
deducted from Mr Ys plan during the period it was responsible less the £500 compensation 
already paid (by the adviser) plus interest. 
To determine if theres any other financial loss, Ive thought about what might have 
happened had TenetConnect offered advice to Mr Y during the period it had servicing rights. 
Since Mr Y said he wasnt prepared to pay ongoing adviser fees, I find it more likely than not 
that he wouldve terminated his relationship with TenetConnect, albeit sooner  and I think 
its likely this would have led to TenetConnect refunding the adviser fees it had received up 
to that point, which is exactly what its offered to do. So its the same outcome. Therefore I 
dont think theres any other financial loss to consider.
The estate says it wants all adviser fees deducted from Mr Ys plan refunded. As stated 
above, I dont think the initial advice fee should be refunded because Im content that the 
pension switch advice was suitable and in Mr Ys best interests. As for the ongoing adviser fees, TenetConnect has already offered to refund these in its final response letter. Im 
content this is a fair offer and in line with what I wouldve have directed it to do had it not 
already made the offer. 
TenetConnects told this service its offer remains open. 
Forged signatures
Mr Y alleged that the adviser forged his signature on some documents dated in 2015 and 
2016 because they didnt have any communication during this period. As explained by our 
investigator, this isnt something this service can investigate since were not handwriting 
experts. Should it wish to pursue this allegation, the estate should contact the police since 
this is a criminal matter.
TenetConnects complaint handling
Complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity. This means I cant consider the quality of 
a businesss complaint handling. Although, I think its important to note here that I havent 
seen any evidence the actions taken by TenetConnect in response to this complaint amount 
to harassment or intimidation. Or that TenetConnect treated Mr Y differently because he was 
disabled or that it breached his rights under the Equality Act 2010. Rather, in response to 
this complaint, I can see that TenetConnect instigated its formal complaint process, as it was 
required to do so under the regulators rules, and issued a comprehensive final response 
letter in which it accepted the complaint in part and offered compensation to Mr Y  
compensation which Ive deemed to be fair, as explained above. However it took longer than 
eight weeks to provide its final response letter. In line with our investigators 
recommendation, its agreed to pay £200 compensation in respect of this delay. Im content 
that this is a fair outcome. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, its my view that TenetConnect should pay the estate £200 
compensation for the delay in issuing its final response letter.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold in part this complaint against TenetConnect Services Limited. I direct 
TenetConnect to pay to the estate £200 compensation for the delay in issuing its final 
response letter. Should the estate now wish to accept TenetConnects offer of a refund of 
adviser fees as set out in its final response letter, then it should contact it to arrange 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2021. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman