DRN-3751305
The complaint
Mr N has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him transactions he didnt make 
in October 2021. Barclays subsequently closed Mr Ns account.
What happened
Mr N had Covid in October 2021. He later noticed £1,300 worth of transactions to a gambling 
company hed not made. He complained to Barclays. Barclays reviewed what had happened 
but felt their evidence showed it was most likely Mr N had made the transactions. They took 
back £300 which theyd initially reimbursed him. Barclays also gave Mr N a notice to close 
his account. They asked him to repay the outstanding overdraft.
Mr N brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator also thought it was most likely Mr N had authorised these transactions. Mr N 
continued to disagree and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ns complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ns case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr N have told us.
Mr N doesnt dispute he has a history of regular gambling with different companies over a 
prolonged period. There are also some transactions made with the same company that Mr N 
has not disputed.
Overall I believe the evidence shows Mr N authorised the disputed transactions. I say this 
because:
The IP address related to these transactions matches an IP address used when Mr N 
accesses his mobile banking app. I appreciate Mr N has argued that IP addresses 
can be tampered with but I have to ask what the gain would be here.
Just after the disputed transactions, Mr Ns account is credited with winnings 
following gambling with the company where the disputed transactions took place. Its 
generally accepted that gambling wins get credited back to the same account so 
again that makes me wonder why an unknown third party would be gambling with 
Mr Ns Barclays debit card.
Mr N has a history of regular gambling.
I also note Mr N has a history of fraud claims for gambling transactions. Historically Barclays 
refunded these but from the evidence they obtained about these disputed transactions, I 
accept why they believed Mr N authorised these transactions/
Im aware Mr N was ill at the time. But I dont agree that would have prevented him from 
gambling.
I appreciate Mr N is distressed at Barclays giving him notice of their intention to close his 
account. I can see it was bad timing as he was away for a prolonged period, but I dont 
believe they did anything wrong and were able to make the decision they did. Mr N had a 
large overdraft at the time so I can understand why Barclays would want to minimise Mr Ns 
debt.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ns complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman