DRN-1592953
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way in which Zurich Insurance PLC handled their 
insurance claim for an escape of water in their property.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and doesnt therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point thats been made.
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs W discovered a leak in their kitchen had allowed mains water to 
enter their property, causing damage to the ground floor. Mr and Mrs W made a claim with 
Zurich who appointed contractors to investigate and put things right.
The process of drying out and reinstatement of Mr and Mrs W property to pre-incident 
condition did not go smoothly and they made a complaint to Zurich about a wide range of 
issues. 
Zurich initially offered Mr and Mrs W £250 compensation as an apology that their 
communication about the works couldve been better. At this point Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
was still ongoing. Later, as the claim approached completion, Zurich acknowledged theyd 
made mistakes and shouldve been far more pro-active in handling the claim. In recognition 
they increased the compensation offered to Mr and Mrs W to £500. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree £500 was enough, so they referred their complaint to our service. 
They remained unhappy with several aspects of Zurichs handling of their claim and with the 
service provided to them, including:
Being told their property would be ready to advise on the reinstatement works when 
they returned from holiday. It wasnt.
Finding out from a neighbour whilst out of the country about a gas leak in their 
property caused by the contractor.
Alternative accommodation offered to Mr and Mrs W not being suitable, resulting in 
them having to arrange their own places to stay.
Our investigator looked into things. Whilst she agreed mistakes had been made by Zurich, 
she felt the £500 compensation offered was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They provided a detailed response to our investigators opinion 
and asked for answers to several questions such as; when and why a contractor appointed 
by Zurich had caused further damage to their property by jack hammering the concrete floor. 
Mr and Mrs W said finding this out from a neighbour mid-way through their holiday had 
ruined it for them. They consider Zurich should pay a minimum of £2,500 which would cover 
half of the cost of the trip affected. 
Our investigator provided a response to Mr and Mrs Ws concerns where possible. And 
where not possible, she advised Mr and Mrs W of any issues she wouldnt be able to 
consider within the scope of this complaint  and that they would need to raise directly with 
Zurich. Our investigator said her opinion hadnt changed. She didnt think Zurich needed to 
do anything more.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy so the complaints been passed to me to review. Im 
aware Mr and Mrs W have raised further issues regarding damage to their boiler, ultimately 
leading to the need for it to be replaced and damage to their cooker. Theyve also raised 
concerns about the inflated cost of their claim as a result of Zurichs mistakes having an 
impact on their insurance premiums in the future. As these issues werent looked into by 
Zurich as part of this complaint, I havent considered them here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Mr and Mrs W have provided a lot of information about their complaint. They clearly 
feel strongly about whats happened, the damage caused to their property and the delays in 
reinstating it to pre-incident condition. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that while Ive only 
included a summary of the claim and the way it was handled, which reflects the informal 
nature of our service, Ive considered all both parties have said and sent us. 
If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it when deciding 
a suitable award, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. Ive focused though on what I think are the key issues.
Delays in completion of the work
There were undoubtedly delays in completing the works on Mr and Mrs Ws property. I dont 
consider this to be in dispute.
Mr and Mrs W say they were told their property would be ready for them to advise on 
painting and wallpaper choices for reinstatement work to commence on their return from 
holiday. I can also see the contractors initial report to Zurich also said they would attempt to 
dry the property back to pre-incident condition ready for the reinstatement works to start and 
the return of the policyholder from holiday so I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustrations 
on their return finding out this was not the case. 
The same report also confirmed discovery of tiles in the kitchen which required testing for 
asbestos. And the contractor recommended alternative accommodation be organised for   
Mr and Mrs Ws return from holiday. I find this information contradicting and I think Zurich 
couldve managed their expectations more realistically there.
Mr and Mrs W have questioned why it took the contractor a month to resolve the presence of 
asbestos. Mr W says a positive result was received before they left for their holiday and has 
questioned whether the type of tiles in his property posed any danger at all if left untouched. 
But it isnt for me to tell Zurich what risks they or their contractors should take, and I think its 
reasonable they proceeded with caution. Ive seen from the contact notes provided by Zurich 
there was a delay in the approval for a specialist to inspect the area. Approval wasnt given 
by Zurich until 20 days after they were notified the tiles had returned positive for asbestos. 
Its clear to me had Zurich given authorisation sooner the works couldve been done more 
promptly.Mr W also disputes that the tiles in which asbestos were found were ever removed. 
However, Ive reviewed the certificate confirming the area had been deemed asbestos free. 
This essentially gave Zurich the all clear so their contractors could proceed safely, and Im 
satisfied works restarted promptly after it was received.
Once the drying out process had been completed, reinstatement works could commence. Its 
clear to me Zurich couldve been managed this process better and progressed it more 
promptly. This isnt in dispute. Zurich has acknowledged they shouldve been far more     
pro-active in handing Mr and Mrs Ws claim and have apologised for not being.
The additional damage caused by the contractor
Mr and Mrs W have directly asked the question why the contractor used a jack hammer to 
remove part of the ground-floor concrete of their property. I understand Mr and Mrs W 
disagree that this extent of the work was needed in comparison to the volume of escaped 
water into their property. Theyve asked if our service has considered instructing an 
independent expert to provide an opinion based on their written reports and photos provided.
But it isnt for me to tell an insurer what work is required to return a property to pre-incident 
condition. More so to ensure that its been done, and that a business acts fairly while in the 
process of doing so. So, while its important for me to be clear Im not an expert in this area, I 
dont think I need to be. Ive seen the contractors initial report provided to Zurich. And as part 
of the drying out process they identified the need to remove screed flooring. Im satisfied by 
doing so Zurich did nothing wrong proceeding with the work recommended.
Its not beyond possibility for accidents to occur when work of this nature is being carried out. 
And while I acknowledge the circumstances under which the events happened were 
unfortunate, I would expect Zurich to make good any damage done, which they did do. 
Mr and Mrs W say they were advised to go ahead and travel and that the work could 
continue in their absence. I think this was reasonable. Neither Zurich or their contractors 
couldve foreseen complications with the drying out process at the time of advising of their 
plans to travel. Mr and Mrs W acknowledge themselves they wouldve been liable for the 
cost of the flights and 50% of the accommodation cost had they cancelled their trip. 
It was unfortunate that during completion of the works, the contractors caused further 
damage to both a gas pipe and water pipe in Mr and Mrs Ws property. Mr and Mrs W were 
notified of this via a text message from their neighbour. They were told a gas engineer 
unrelated to the claim had been found in their property, and that their property appeared to 
have been partly destroyed. 
I can understand how hearing this while out of the country mustve been a very distressing 
experience. Compounded by not having a full understanding of the situation. Mr and Mrs W 
said this ruined half of their holiday to the point they considered flying home.
I cant hold Zurich at fault for the manner in which Mr and Mrs W were notified. But I think 
they were at fault for not communicating with Mr and Mrs W about the complications to the 
work on their property  especially when Mr and Mrs W contacted Zurich from their holiday 
destination. Zurich has acknowledged they shouldve communicated better. I think had they 
done so, and explained the situation to Mr and Mrs W, it wouldve gone some way to putting 
their minds at rest as to what was happening to their property.
Alternative accommodationZurichs contractor recommended alternative accommodation be arranged for                     
Mr and Mrs Ws return to the UK before they left on their holiday. It was stated in the 
contractors initial report. The report went as far as to highlight Mr and Mrs Ws both had 
serious health conditions. 
But no accommodation was arranged. And when Mr and Mrs W returned to the UK, with 
their property not being in a fit state to reside, they had to source their own accommodation. 
Its disappointing Zurich didnt ensure a property was ready for Mr and Mrs W. Or at least 
that short term accommodation was available for their immediate return. No contact was 
made with regards to arranging alternative accommodation until two days after their return to 
the UK. Thankfully, whilst somewhat inconvenient, Mr and Mrs W were able to check into a 
hotel on the day of their return and stayed there for a short period before moving to another 
property.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs W opted to source their own accommodation as Zurichs 
contactor failed to find a property satisfactory to their needs. And they had to move several 
times as the accommodation theyd found had been pre-booked. Essentially it was             
Mr and Mrs Ws choice find their own accommodation. I can see Zurich agreed to the 
properties proposed by them. This took the responsibility away from Zurichs contractor to 
find suitable property. Mr and Mrs W have confirmed they have been reimbursed for the 
costs on their alternative accommodation in full.
In summary, Im in no doubt Zurich made mistakes and that they should have handled the 
claim better. But Zurich was not at fault for the initial leak so when considering an award for 
the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W, Ive taken into account a claim of this nature will 
undoubtedly cause a considerable amount of distress and disruption to daily life. 
Ultimately, Zurich has covered Mr and Mrs Ws claim in full and returned the property to   
pre-incident condition. And, in addition to the cost of the alternative accommodation,                 
Mr and Mrs W have confirmed all additional costs claimed for have been reimbursed by 
Zurich in full. This included out of pocket expenses specified by Mr and Mrs W which Zurich 
agreed to pay.
So taking everything into account, I think £500 is fair compensation. Im satisfied this 
appropriately recognises the impact Zurichs handling of the claim had on Mr and Mrs W. 
While Im sorry to hear this claim meant Mr and Mrs W werent able to enjoy part of their 
holiday, I do think the compensation Zurich offered recognises the trouble and upset for what 
happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask         
Mrs W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman