DRN-4035650
The complaint
Mr B complains he was charged for overseas transactions by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened
Mr B had a current account with BOS. On 5 December 2022, he was deployed to Ukraine to 
give humanitarian aid for six months. Between then and 28 December 2022, he was charged 
£41.15 by BOS for using his debit card in Ukraine. 
Mr B complained. He said he called BOS before he left to ask if there would be any charges 
when he was abroad; and would his card work while there. He said he was told there 
wouldnt be any problems. He said he shouldve been told about the charges at that stage, 
but he wasnt. He said the chat exchanges with BOS were curt and rude, and the service 
was poor as he had to continually repeat his issues  rather than the agent seeing what they 
were. And he said BOS final response was sent to his home address in the UK  when he 
had told them he was going to be abroad. Mr B said he wants the charges refunded.
BOS accepted that he probably wasnt aware of the charges and refunded £41.15  the 
charges up to 28 December 2022. But as he was then told about the charges, they would be 
applied after that. BOS accepted that some of the service he got on webchat fell short of 
their standards and they paid compensation of £30.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said BOS dealt with his complaint 
reasonably. He said BOS charges were in line with their terms and conditions. BOS had 
refunded the charges up to the end of December 2022 but it was reasonable for them to 
make charges after that.  BOS had also paid compensation of £30 for the service Mr B got 
on the webchat service. He didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. And so it has come 
to me to make a final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is deployed in giving humanitarian aid in Ukraine. Clearly, that is a courageous and 
admirable thing to be doing. He called BOS before he went to ask if there was anything he 
needed to be aware of  given that he was going abroad. But he was then charged for 
overseas transactions  and paid £41.15 between when he left and 28 December 2022.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he called BOS before he went  and wasnt told about 
the charges. So I asked for a recording of the call he made to BOS on 29 November 2022. 
This wasnt available to our investigator. 
On the call  Mr B asked whether his card would work in Ukraine, and could he use online 
banking there. He asked (will there) be any issues with using the card?...? The call 
handler checked and said it would be OK. Mr B didnt ask about charges. I thought about 
whether we would expect BOS call handler to think about the charges that might be applied 
if Mr B used his card. But  I dont think it is reasonable to expect him to do so. My 
interpretation of the call was that Mr B was asking if his card would work in Ukraine  not 
whether he would be charged. Had Mr B asked about charges, clearly he shouldve been 
told about them, but he didnt.
BOS terms and conditions do set out clearly what the charges are. These wouldve been 
sent to Mr B from time to time. 
BOS took the view that Mr B wasnt aware of the charges and refunded £41.15 for the period 
up to 28 December 2022  but said that after that time, charges would be applied. I think that 
on balance, that was a reasonable thing for BOS to do.
Mr B also complained that BOS final response was sent in the post to his UK address when 
he told BOS he was abroad. We asked BOS about that  and they said it was their process 
to do that for reasons of confidentiality. But if Mr B had asked for it to be emailed, that 
couldve been done  if it had been possible to discuss that with him on the phone, but that 
didnt happen due to Mr Bs circumstances. I thought about this aspect and I also looked at 
the webchat between Mr B and BOS. I can see the final response was sent to him in the 
body of the chat on 9 January 2022  so he did get it electronically as he wanted.
I can appreciate that the webchat was frustrating for Mr B to use. He told us he had 
intermittent internet service in Ukraine (added to the other concerns he had for his safety). I 
can see that he became frustrated at the changes of chat handlers and the need to go over 
issues each time. But  BOS paid compensation of £30 for that, which was fair.
I asked BOS if they would consider giving Mr B free international services while he was in 
Ukraine  given the nature of his role there. But they said that wasnt possible  as their 
systems are designed to add the charges. And they said that once Mr B was made aware of 
the charges  and received a refund for the first part of his deployment  then that wasnt a 
reasonable thing to do. 
Ive considered this point. Our service doesnt have the power to tell a firm what its prices 
should be. So we accept what BOS have said here  its down to their commercial decision 
as to whether to give Mr B free international services or not. And on balance, given that BOS 
refunded his charges up to the end of December 2022, I think its reasonable for them to say 
that charges would apply from then on.
Mr B told us that he has now opened an account with another bank who give free 
international services, so his issues from now on have been resolved by doing that. But in 
summary, having considered everything regarding his complaint, I think BOS dealt with it 
reasonably, and Im not going to ask them to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman