DRN-3142361
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs L have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to remove 
Tech and Travel packs that were associated with their current account. 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs L have explained that in August 2016, whilst in a branch of Barclays, Mr L 
asked that the Tech and Travel packs be removed from their current account. Mr L says he 
was told that both account holders would need to be present, to remove the packs. Mr and 
Mrs L say that in the same branch visit, Mr L paid in £1,000 to clear the accounts overdrawn 
balance and then asked to close the account. Mr L says he was told again that both account 
holders would need to be present to do so. 
Subsequently the monthly fee for the packs continued to be accrued on the account, until the 
packs were removed in 2019.
Barclays says that there are no records of these requests and it did not uphold this 
complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already. They felt that there was sufficient 
evidence of Mr Ls presence in the Barclays branch in August 2016 and therefore on balance 
he thought that Mr and Mrs L were mis-led into thinking that both parties needed to be 
present to remove the packs, when that was not actually the case. He therefore 
recommended that Barclays refund 12 months worth of the pack fees with interest added to 
these fees at 8% simple. He said that he felt that this gave Mr and Mrs L enough time to 
attempt to remove the packs again. He also referred to a call in 2018 in which Barclays 
offered to remove the packs, but Barclays notes at the time suggest that they were not 
removed as Mrs L was in a rush and unable to go through the downgrade process.
Barclays agreed to offer this refund. Mr and Mrs L did not accept this offer and therefore this 
complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
This decision will only be addressing the issues relating to the removal of the packs. I note 
that Mr and Mrs L have queried a default that was added to their credit file. But as this did 
not form part of the original complaint with Barclays, this would need to be directed to 
Barclays in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr and Mrs L and Barclays have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided that what Barclays has already agreed to do is sufficient, given the overall 
circumstances of their complaint. Ive explained why below.
The crux of this matter is whether Mr and Mrs L asked Barclays to remove the packs and 
what Barclays did in response to this request. From what I can see, it is clear that Mr L was 
in a branch of Barclays in August 2016. However, there is no evidence, apart from Mr and 
Mrs Ls testimony, that there was a request made at that time to remove the packs from their 
account. I accept that it is possible that this request was made and again possible that they 
were mis-led about the need for both parties to be present. But even if I were satisfied, on 
balance, that this occurred, then I think that the refund already agreed by Barclays is 
sufficient given the overall circumstances of this complaint.
I say this because I cant see why Mr and Mrs L could not have either called into a branch at 
the same time to remove the packs, or have called Barclays to remove the packs between 
when they say they were misinformed and when the packs were removed in 2019. I cant 
see that Mr and Mrs L were mis-led into thinking the packs were removed, so they must 
have known that they were still on their account and that they were being charged for them. 
Generally, I would expect a consumer to mitigate any financial loss that was caused by an 
error on the part of a financial institution. So in this case, if Barclays misinformed Mr and Mrs 
L about the need for both parties to be present to remove the packs, I wouldve expected Mr 
and Mrs L to have attempted to do this, rather than for them to wait a number of years.
Given this, my decision is that what Barclays has already agreed to do in relation to this 
matter is reasonable.
Putting things right
  So, to put matters right, Barclays should:
Refund Mr and Mrs L 12 months of Tech and Travel pack fees; and
Add 8% simple interest to those fees, from the date they were paid to the date of 
Settlement. *
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give a certificate showing how much tax it has taken, if asked for one by Mr and Mrs L.
My final decision
 Barclays Bank UK Plc should do what Ive set out above, to put matters right in relation to 
the advice around the removal of the Tech and Travel Packs, in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman