DRN-1742696
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card and went on to increase the credit limit. Miss C also complains about 
Nationwides actions when she experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
In July 2013 Miss C was approved for a credit card with Nationwide. Between November 
2013 and May 2015 Miss C applied to increase the credit limit four times, with a final limit of 
£4,700 agreed by Nationwide. 
In May 2016 Miss C told Nationwide she was experiencing financial difficulties and arranged 
to discuss her options with a third party debt advice service. Nationwide later agreed a debt 
management plan via the third party.
In August 2019 Miss C complained to Nationwide about its decision to lend and the 
assistance it had given when she was going through financial difficulties. Nationwide 
responded on 23 August 2019 but didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. Nationwide said it had 
considered a range of information provided by Miss C and obtained from the credit reference 
agencies before deciding to approve her credit card and, later, increase the credit limit. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint and she referred it to this service. An 
investigator looked at Miss Cs complaint but didnt agree Nationwide had lent irresponsibly 
and thought it had provided positive and sympathetic support when she reported financial 
difficulties. 
Miss C asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has complained about Nationwides decision to lend and increase her credit limit as 
well as the way it treated her when she experienced financial difficulties. Ill look at each 
issue in turn. 
Before a business agrees to lend I would expect that it completed proportionate checks to 
ensure the consumer can afford to maintain it. We cant tell a business what checks it should 
complete, thats up to each lender to decide. But businesses will consider information 
provided by the applicant along with information from their credit file. In this case, Nationwide 
has told us Miss C completed an application and provided information about where she lived 
and how much she earned. Nationwide also completed a credit check that found Miss C had 
around £100 of other unsecured debts and no adverse credit. 
Nationwide said its systems approved Miss Cs application and gave a £1,500 credit limit. I 
understand Miss Cs point that she was around 18 at this time, but I wouldnt expect 
Nationwide to have treated her differently or taken the step of declining her application because of her age. From the evidence available, Im satisfied Nationwide completed 
proportionate checks and its decision to approve Miss Cs credit card application was 
reasonable. 
Miss C applied to increase her credit limit four times between November 2013 and May 
2015, with a final limit of £4,700. Nationwide didnt offer to increase the credit limit and each 
time Miss C applied online. Nationwide has provided evidence to show that each time it 
increased Miss Cs credit limit it looked at her credit file and the way her account had been 
managed. Nationwide approved the credit limit increases and Im satisfied its decision to do 
so was reasonable based on what it knew about Miss C. I understand Miss C was 
subsequently unable to maintain her monthly payments, but the information Ive seen shows 
that wasnt apparent to Nationwide when she applied for the credit limit increases. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I havent found that Nationwide lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card and went on to increase her credit limit. 
Miss C says Nationwide didnt treat her fairly when she told it about the financial difficulties 
she experienced in 2016. Nationwides notes show it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment with Miss C in March 2016 but found that she didnt have enough income to 
cover her unsecured debts along with her regular outgoings. As a result, Nationwide agreed 
to put a hold on Miss Cs account for 30 days so she could deal with a third party to arrange 
a debt management plan. Since that time, Nationwide has dealt with the third party and 
agreed debt management plans and the outstanding balance has reduced. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but Im satisfied Nationwide did treat her positively and 
sympathetically when she reported financial difficulties. 
Ive considered everything Miss C and Nationwide have said in reaching my decision. 
Having done so, I havent been persuaded that Nationwide lent irresponsibly or that it treated 
Miss C unfairly when she wasnt able to maintain the monthly payment. As Im satisfied 
Nationwide has dealt with Miss Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman