DRN-4453326
The complaint
Mr H and Mr M, of business T have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused to meet 
Ts financial costs in their involvement with the management of a claim they made under 
their commercial property insurance policy. 
What happened
T made a claim for water damage to a commercial property. Their insurer AXA appointed a 
Loss Adjuster (LA) to handle the claim. 
T submitted an invoice for their time involved in their handling of the claim as a management 
fee. 
AXA said it wouldnt reimburse T for their time involved in their own claim. 
T brought their complaint to us. Our Investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld for 
the same reasons AXA gave. 
T disagrees and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy wording which the broker referred to when they asked AXA to 
consider reimbursement of the invoice provided by T for £1,550.00
AXA says that it will cover T as follows:
We (AXA) will cover you for the cost of managing agents fees that you incur for the 
management and supervision of repair or rebuilding work solely as a result of 
damage.
Provided that the fees solely relate to any additional work which would not have been 
necessary had the damage not occurred.
AXA says that as T are the insured, it wouldnt cover their own claimed management fees for 
dealing with their own claim. AXA says T would be responsible for mitigating damages to the 
property and this isnt something T could charge a management fee for. 
Our role is to decide whether an insurer has acted reasonably. I havent seen any evidence 
as T suggests that the LA agreed these costs would be considered or met under the claim. 
I think AXAs decision to decline this part of the claim costs was reached in a reasonable 
way. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman