DRN-4381822
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt port their mortgage. They 
say if NatWest had told them about a change in lending policy they could have taken steps 
to make sure they met it. Mr and Mrs P ask that the early repayment charge (ERC) is 
refunded and for compensation for the stress of applying elsewhere and losing the benefit of 
the interest rate product. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with NatWest. In mid-2022 they contacted NatWest to discuss 
porting. Mr and Mrs P had accepted an offer on their property but hadnt found a property to 
buy. 
In September 2022 Mr and Mrs P found a property to buy and booked an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser. They didnt meet NatWests lending criteria. While NatWest said it would 
consider whether the application could proceed outside policy there wasnt enough time to 
do this before Mr and Mrs Ps sale completed the following week.
Mr and Mrs P say NatWest should have told them it had changed its lending policy. They 
say had it done so they could have arranged matters so that they met its policy. Mr and 
Mrs P also complain about call waiting times and not being able to meet with a mortgage 
adviser before finding a property to buy.
NatWest said it followed the correct process. It apologised for its service at times and offered 
£150. Our investigator said NatWest had acted reasonably and was entitled to apply the 
ERC.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary, they said they had no reason to suspect anything 
was wrong since theyd made their timings and intentions to port clear. They were only told 
they didnt meet criteria the day before their meeting with a mortgage adviser. Mr and Mrs P 
said if there hadnt been a change in policy this meeting would have gone ahead and theyd 
have been able to port. Instead, they were put in an impossible position by NatWest 
changing its policy without giving them an opportunity to address the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out strict affordability tests before 
offering or varying a mortgage. Each lender is entitled to put in place its own processes and 
policies. Lenders dont have to publish their policies or tell customers when they change.
Mr and Mrs P had taken out a five-year fixed interest rate product in 2020. As is usually the 
case with fixed interest rate products, an ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid 
during the product term. This was clearly set out in the product offer, and Mr and Mrs P 
agreed to this when they took out the product.
The product offer said the product was portable. That meant Mr and Mrs P could take the 
product with them (without paying the ERC) if they repaid their mortgage and took out a new 
mortgage with NatWest. The product offer said the new application needed to meet 
NatWests lending criteria at the time of the application and was subject to credit checks and 
a valuation of the new property.
Ive listened to Mr Ps calls with NatWest in June and July 2022 when porting was discussed. 
Mr and Mrs P had an offer for their property but hadnt yet found somewhere to buy. Its clear 
that Mr P wanted to port, and also clear that he didnt agree with NatWests policies and 
processes. I think though that NatWest gave him correct information. That in order to port, 
they had to start a porting application with a mortgage adviser before they redeemed their 
mortgage. That it would look to port on a like for like basis. And there was no guarantee of 
an offer until an application had been reviewed and this was subject to lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs P couldnt start an application in July 2022 because they hadnt found a property 
to buy. NatWest told Mr and Mrs P they couldnt book an appointment with a mortgage 
adviser until they had an offer accepted for a property. This is NatWests policy, and I dont 
think it was unfair for NatWest to apply its policy here. 
Mr and Mrs P contacted NatWest on 20 September 2022 as theyd had an offer accepted for 
a property. They were offered an appointment with a mortgage adviser on 22 September 
2022  two days later. On 21 September 2022 the mortgage adviser called and said Mr and 
Mrs P didnt meet its lending policy. 
The mortgage adviser sent an email to Mr P on 22 September 2022. This said NatWest 
would consider whether the application could proceed outside of its policy. It said this would 
have to be agreed before the application could commence and set out the steps involved. Mr 
and Mrs Ps sale was due to complete on 27 September 2022 and Mr P had told the 
mortgage adviser this couldnt be changed. This was only three working days later, and 
NatWest said this wasnt enough time.
At that point, Mr and Mrs P werent legally bound to a completion date, but they didnt want 
to risk losing their sale. Mr and Mrs P were in a difficult position. They had to choose 
whether to go ahead with their sale, pay the ERC and make a new application. Or delay (and 
risk losing) their sale so that they could potentially start a porting application.
Mr and Mrs P decided to go ahead with the sale of their property at the end of September 
2022 and repaid the mortgage, knowing they wouldnt be able to port. 
Mr and Mrs P say they should have been told about changes to lending policy or allowed to 
meet with a mortgage adviser before they found a property to buy. Its possible that matters 
might have worked out differently if they had, although its also possible they still wouldnt 
have met lending criteria or other issues could have emerged during the application process. 
But I dont think I can fairly find that NatWest ought to have waived its usual process and 
allowed Mr and Mrs P to meet with a mortgage adviser when they werent in a position to 
start a mortgage application. 
When Mr and Mrs P didnt meet NatWests lending criteria it said it could consider whether 
the application could proceed outside policy. I think that was fair. The timing of Mr and Mrs Ps sale and purchase didnt fit with NatWests porting process. But 
thats not the same as finding that NatWest made errors or treated them unfairly. NatWest is 
entitled to put in place processes and lending criteria, and it doesnt have to notify customers 
of changes. NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P correct information about its porting process, 
including that they had to meet lending criteria at the time of the application. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require NatWest to refund the 
ERC or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs P for their new mortgage having a higher interest 
rate.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about call wait times, NatWest offered an apology 
for not providing a good service at times and £150. I think this is fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances, for the upset and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £150 to Mr and Mrs P, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman