DRN-3624220
The complaint
Ms A complains that Belmont Green Finance Limited trading as Vida Homeloans (Vida) 
charged her too much interest on her interest-only buy to let mortgage, which meant she 
was left with a larger redemption figure than she was expecting at the end.
What happened
Ms A had a buy to let mortgage with Vida. She took out the mortgage in October 2018. It had
a fixed interest rate of 3.34% for the first two years, ending in October 2020.
Ms A said that Vida had charged her interest which was more than the monthly amount it
told her it would charge, during the initial two years when her mortgage rate was fixed. She
said that Vida never wrote to tell her that insufficient payments had been made. But then at
the end of the two year period, Vida added a lump sum to her mortgage, without any
notification or justification of the amount. She said that her mortgage balance went up as a
result, and she had to pay back much more to Vida as a result.
Ms A wanted Vida to refund the hidden extra charges it had added to the mortgage account
without informing her.
Vida said it hadnt done anything wrong. The amount owed on Ms As mortgage fluctuated
from month to month, but that was to be expected. It said it hadnt overcharged her.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, because he thought that Vida
wasnt charging quite enough each month to cover Ms As monthly interest payment.
Vida said it wasnt doing that, and it sent us some more information on what Ms A had been
charged.
Vida said that the difference between what Ms A borrowed and what she was asked to pay
back wasnt because of small amounts of monthly interest being unpaid, and building up
over time. It said rather, it was because Ms As interest rate went up at the end of her fixed
term period. That happened in October 2020, halfway through a month. Ms A was still
charged the old contractual monthly payment for that month. Vida said that didnt cover the
interest she owed for that month. It had asked Ms A if she wanted to make up the difference.
But she hadnt made a payment, so the amount was added to her overall debt with Vida.
Vida still didnt think it had done anything wrong. It wanted this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, because he thought that the 
reason Ms A had to repay more at the end of her mortgage was due to a slow build-up 
of unpaid interest over time.
But I dont think thats what has happened here. I can see that Ms As overall debt did 
fluctuate slightly month to month, but thats not surprising, that happens just because 
she pays the same amount each month. Her interest charge is a little bit less in shorter 
months, and a little bit more in longer months. Importantly, I cant see that there has 
been any slow build-up of unpaid interest though. Thats not why Ms A owed more than 
she expected.
I think that what happened, is that when Ms As interest rate changed, at the end of the 
initial fixed rate period on the mortgage, that happened partway through a month. And 
the direct debit payment she made for that month wasnt adjusted to take that into 
account. So Ms A owed more interest in October 2020 than she had paid.
Vida has shown us that it wrote to Ms A about this, on 1 October 2020. It told her in that 
letter that her monthly payment was going up to a little over £1,000 from November. And 
it said that, because the change in interest rates happened partway through October, 
there was going to be an amount of unpaid interest, for that month. This was £368.14.
Vida invited Ms A to pay this, if she wanted to. It said that if she didnt do that, it would 
be added to the balance of the loan.
Ms As mortgage statement shows the amount she owed does vary a little from month to 
month, as Ive explained. And the figures also go up and down each month as interest is 
added, and then paid. But if we look at whats left after each of her monthly direct debit 
payments, we can get an overall picture of what she owed. And importantly, what Vida 
has said now is consistent with what I can see on Ms As mortgage.
Before October 2020 I can see that each time she had paid her direct debit for the 
month, she then owed around £200,000. And after October 2020, each time she paid 
her direct debit for the month, she owed around £200,300.
I understand that Ms A mustnt have received Vidas letter inviting her to pay the extra 
£368.14, and telling her it would be added to the mortgage if she didnt. Thats because 
she told us No letters or correspondence was received notifying of insufficient 
payments. But Vida does seem to have sent this letter to the right address, and it 
wouldnt be Vidas fault if it wasnt delivered.
Aside from this, the amount Vida asked Ms A to pay at the end of her mortgage also 
seems to have been affected by the rejection of her direct debit in June 2021. But again, 
I havent seen anything to suggest to me that this is Vidas fault. Its possible that Ms A 
may just have been making arrangements then to redeem the mortgage, which took 
longer than expected.
I havent been able to see that Vida has made a mistake in this case, which has resulted 
in Ms A being asked to pay more than she expected at the end of her mortgage. I think 
Vida has explained why Ms A was finally asked to pay more than she had initially 
borrowed. I know that Ms A will be disappointed by this, but for those reasons, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vida said it had nothing to add at this stage.
Ms A wrote to ask me to reconsider. She said because she was paying by direct debit each 
month, she expected this payment would be sufficient to cover the interest Vida charged. But 
she said her mortgage statement showed some months where the monthly direct debit 
payment didnt cover the interest being charged. Mrs A said Vida continued to claim the 
same amount by direct debit over the two year fixed interest rate period, while the amount 
owed continued to increase. She said that was why the amount she owed had gone up. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think this was the case. I set out there that 
the amount of interest charged on Mrs As mortgage did fluctuate slightly month to month. 
But once that monthly interest is averaged out, it is covered by the amount that Vida has 
charged each month. 
Importantly, I cannot see the slow build-up of interest in the first two years of her mortgage 
that Mrs A says is the cause of the problem. I dont think thats what happened. 
I explained that when the fixed interest rate period on Mrs As loan ended, Vida wrote to her 
to tell her that her direct debit would be increasing. And it also explained that because her 
interest rate was changing part-way through that month, it wasnt taking the full amount 
owed for that month by direct debit. I think this just affected one month, and I dont think Vida 
has to pay back this money just because of this. 
Mrs A says Vida didnt write to her about this. Mrs A said she only became aware of the 
added sum in December 2020. She said when she asked Vida about this, no one could 
explain it to her, and thats why she complained to us. Mrs A said if Vida had really written to 
her in October 2020, then it would have produced the letter to her earlier in her complaint. 
I accept that, with the benefit of hindsight, it would have been helpful if Vida had pointed out 
that it had written to Mrs A in October 2020 when it first replied to Mrs As complaint. It looks 
as if Vida was concentrating then on explaining to Mrs A how monthly interest had been 
calculated in the two years before her interest rate change, rather than explaining what 
happened in October 202. But Vida had already provided a complaint response in 
considerable detail, so the fact that it didnt provide even more doesnt change my mind on 
this case. 
Ive accepted that Mrs A mustnt have received this letter in October 2020, but I still think it 
was sent. I dont think theres anything here to suggest Vida has somehow fabricated 
evidence in this case.
Ive considered Mrs As further representations carefully, but I havent changed my mind. For 
the above reasons, and particularly because Mrs As statements just dont show the slow 
build-up of unpaid interest that she thinks has caused the problem here, I still dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. So Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman