DRN-3637064
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-Operative Bank Plc blocked payments from his account whilst 
he was abroad.
What happened
Mr M says that The Co-Operative Bank told him that transactions on his account would work 
whilst he was overseas. He says that payments were blocked, and continue to be blocked, 
and the missed payments have adversely affected his credit file and caused him to lose his 
interest-free period on his credit cards. Mr M says that The Co-Operative Bank told him that 
Visa, as the payment processor, was responsible for blocking the card. He adds that he was 
unable to call again as the cost of the previous call was so expensive.
The Co-Operative Bank said the Verified by Visa security system triggered a fraud measure 
when Mr M attempted the payments and he needed to phone in to confirm the payments 
were genuine. It said Mr M did not call until his return to the UK and so his first payment did 
not go through, and subsequent payments were blocked.
The Co-Operative Bank acknowledged Mr M called before travelling but said the payment 
was flagged by Visas fraud prevention system, rather than its own. It added that a further 
payment failed because the recipient bank said the information provided wasnt valid or it 
couldnt accept payments.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that The Co-
Operative Bank was entitled to prevent payments about which it had suspicions and was 
satisfied that there was no evidence it had made an error.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that The Co-Operative Bank had no reason to suspect 
any fraudulent activity and he had confirmed this with Visas head office. He said he 
informed The Co-Operative Bank weeks in advance about his journey and was not told a 
hold had been put on his account, even though its initial response said it would contact him 
directly to explain why a payment was blocked if it happened whilst he was abroad. Mr M 
added that he was still unable to make payments to one of his credit cards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wrote to The Co-Operative Bank on 9 February 2022 to tell it he would he overseas 
from 24 May 2022 until 25 June 2022 and to check his debit card would be unaffected. The 
Co-Operative Bank responded the same day to say that he could use his card abroad, and 
also to let him know it conducts a variety of security checks on payments made using a 
debit/credit card, regardless of location, so payments can be blocked for other reasons.
On 2 June 2022, Mr M contacted The Co-Operative Bank to say that he was unable to make 
a payment to a credit card. Having initially said the transaction had been verified by Visa, 
The Co-Operative Bank said Mr M had received an FCMVBV decline on his card due to 
enhanced security checks that had been put in place by Visa. It said Mr M needed to call to 
verify the payment was genuine but that the account would remain blocked until he did so.
Mr M said he did not call the bank due to the cost of doing so from overseas, but instead 
asked his daughter to pay the credit card so he wouldnt lose his interest-free offer.
Mr M then contacted The Co-Operative Bank again on 15 June 2022 to say that a further 
payment to another credit card had been blocked and once again it would affect his interest-
free deal. I note that a payment to that credit card did show on his account statement on that 
day, and The Co-Operative Bank has now sent evidence that the payment was made 
successfully via online banking.
I acknowledge that Mr M has also been in touch with the Visa head office, and they have 
assured him that the blocked payments were nothing to do with its security verification 
process. Mr M says they even offered to speak directly with The Co-Operative Bank to 
confirm this.
When Mr M returned from overseas, he called The Co-Operative Bank on 29 June 2022 and 
his account was unblocked. However, Mr M is now saying he could not make a payment to 
one of his credit card accounts on 29 July 2022. The Co-Operative Bank has sent evidence 
to show that no payments were attempted via online banking that day but clarified that this 
payment wasnt raised in Mr Ms original complaint.
Based on all the evidence, Im satisfied that the initial payment was declined due to the 
enhanced security checks and I cant conclude The Co-Operative Bank was wrong to do so. 
I say that because the code associated with the transaction confirms there was an issue with 
authenticating it, although The Co-Operative Bank says its unable to confirm further details 
due to the time that has now passed. Its possible that Mr M may have had an issue 
receiving a one-time passcode on his phone due to being abroad, or simply that the system 
automatically recognised he was carrying out the transaction in unusual circumstances. I 
accept that Mr M did not want to call from overseas, but I find it was reasonable for the 
account to remain blocked until the transaction had been confirmed as genuine.
As Mr Ms daughter made the first payment on Mr Ms behalf, I cant see that he would have 
lost the benefit of the interest-free deal or that his credit file would have been adversely 
affected. Similarly, it appears that the payment to the other credit card did go through on 15 
June 2022 as planned.
In summary, I acknowledge Mr M found himself in a very stressful situation, especially given 
he was abroad at the time, but I cant conclude that The Co-Operative Bank did anything 
wrong.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman