DRN-2207273
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about their mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. On 
9 December 2020 I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining which parts of Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaints we could consider. The issues we are able to consider are as follows:
Santander passed Mr and Mrs Ms account to its solicitors in 2019 without giving them 
notice of this;
the mortgage arrears have had a detrimental impact on their credit files and have 
impacted on their new business.
Mr M has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, there were issues raised in the complaint which I have no legal power to 
consider (as per my jurisdiction decision of 9 December 2020), so I will make no comment 
on those matters.
Mr and Mrs M own a property which is currently mortgaged to Santander. Their last product 
switch was in 2017, when Mr and Mrs M switched to a two-year fixed rate product on a 
capital repayment basis, at an initial monthly payment of £2,230, which expired on 24 April 
2019. Since then the mortgage has been on Santanders Standard Variable Rate (currently 
4.34%). They borrowed approximately £480,000, secured on a property which was recently 
marketed for sale at £1.6 million.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs M experienced some financial difficulties and the mortgage fell into 
arrears in February 2018 and has remained in arrears since then. The last payment made to 
the mortgage account was in August 2019. The arrears are currently over £70,000. Due to 
the pandemic, legal action has been put on hold, in line with Financial Conduct Authority 
requirements (which directed lenders to suspend action until 31 October 2020), and pending 
the outcome of this complaint.
I can see from Santanders contact notes that there were numerous discussions with Mr M 
over a number of months about the arrears. I note that in January 2019 Mr M explained that 
the property was being rented out. It appears the rent was not being used to cover the 
mortgage repayments. 
In March 2019 Mr M explained to Santander that the property was being sold. He asked 
Santander to put matters on hold to allow the sale to go through. Santander required 
evidence of this. Santander agreed to place matters on hold until the end of July 2019. 
I note that on 8 July 2019, after Mr M had asked Santander for a further one-month 
extension, he was told that Santander needed to know the buyers reasons for this. 
Santander also explained that if the extension was agreed, it would not be extended any 
further and after that C&R BAU (Collections & Recoveries business as usual) would apply.
On 9 August 2019 Mr M told Santander that completion was due to take place at the end of 
August. Mr M also gave details of some personal issues that had taken his focus away from 
the mortgage. Santander asked for an update on the sale. Mr M was confident that 
completion of the sale would take place by the end of August 2019 and his solicitors would 
be in touch for a redemption statement. 
Unfortunately, there was no further contact from Mr M or his solicitors in August or 
September 2019. It wasnt until 17 October 2019 that Mr M next spoke to Santander. He 
explained that the tenants in the property were buying it, but this had been delayed. Mr M 
also explained that hed had difficulties with his business. During the call Santander made 
Mr M aware that solicitors were being instructed and that if a possession order was obtained, 
Santander could take enforcement action. The case was passed to Santanders solicitors on 
18 October 2019.
In November 2019 Mr M told Santander the property sale was due to complete in mid-
January 2020. There were further discussions over the next few months about this, with a 
redemption statement sent to solicitors on 6 February 2020. Unfortunately the sale fell 
through in March 2020. Mr M told Santander on 4 March 2020 that he couldnt pay the 
monthly instalment.
There has been no action taken by Santander since March 2020, due to the pandemic. 
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about Santanders handling of the 
account. An investigator determined there were some issues that we couldnt look at, and I 
have issued a decision ruling on those issues on 9 December 2020.
In relation to the two issues which he could consider, the investigator didnt think Santander 
had done anything wrong. He was satisfied that the arrears letters were clear about the 
implications of not bringing the account up to date and that information would be provided to 
credit reference agencies. He also explained that Santander was required to provide 
accurate information to credit reference agencies.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware from what hes told us that Mr M considers the two issues in this complaint to be 
intrinsically bound up with all the other issues hes complained about. But Ive already 
decided that the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider those other issues, and so I 
will make no further comment on them.
The available evidence  the arrears letters and the contact notes  persuade me that 
Mr and Mrs M were made aware that non-payment of the mortgage would result in legal 
action. Santander had granted forbearance by suppressing mortgage arrears fees for 
several months during the period it was told the sale was progressing. But after the promised 
completion date of the end of August 2019 passed and the sale hadnt completed, there was 
no further contact from Mr and Mrs M. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Santander was 
justified in passing the matter to solicitors on 18 October 2019. 
The contact notes from the call on 9 August 2019 state that possible litigation action was 
discussed, but the account was put on hold for a further month so the sale could complete. 
This was only agreed because Mr M had been keeping to a payment arrangement of £550 
per month. On 11 September 2019 Santander noted there had been no further contact, and 
no payment.
I appreciate Mr M didnt contact Santander in September 2019 because there were things 
going on in his life which, quite naturally, took his focus away from his financial worries. I 
have no doubt this has been a very difficult time for him. 
It might have been helpful if Santander had written to Mr and Mrs M to let them know it had 
instructed solicitors. But even if it had done so, I dont think this would have changed 
anything. Mr M would have been aware from the discussions hed had with Santander that 
litigation was pending but had been put on hold while the sale was going through. Im also 
satisfied the arrears letters explain, in block capitals and in a prominent position, that the 
property may be repossessed if repayments arent made.
As Mr and Mrs M werent in a position to pay even the full monthly instalment, I think they 
could reasonably have been aware that Santander would instruct solicitors in the absence of 
any payment or contact when the one-month extension granted on 9 August 2019 expired.
Mr and Mrs M are also unhappy at the impact on their credit file of Santander reporting the 
mortgage arrears. Santander is required to provide accurate information to credit reference 
agencies about the position on an account. And its important to remember that what has 
impacted Mr and Mrs Ms credit files is not the accurate information Santander has reported; 
its the missed payments which have affected Mr and Mrs Ms ability to raise credit 
elsewhere.
In all the circumstances, I find Santander has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly and so Im unable 
to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M wanted, but I also 
note that they are not without options. There is likely to be about £1 million equity in the 
property after the mortgage to Santander is repaid. I know Mr and Mrs M havent lived in the 
property for several years and have been trying to sell it. I hope they are able to do so in the 
foreseeable future in order to draw this unhappy time in their lives to a close.
If Mr and Mrs M would like advice about their financial difficulties, they can contact one of the 
free debt advisory services such as StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide 
contact details for those agencies, if Mr and Mrs M would like us to.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman