DRN-3238485
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim for 
storm damage, under their buildings insurance policy.
When I refer to AXA Im also referring to any of their appointed representatives.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs H and Mr H said theyd storm damage to their roof as a result of 
Storm Bella, with slates and the gable end falling, narrowly missing two cars. They made a 
claim against their buildings insurance for the damage to be repaired. AXA sent an assessor 
to consider the damage, and he said the damage wasnt as a result of a one off incident  
such as a storm  but from gradual deterioration over time.  AXA declined Mrs H and Mr H 
claim as this wasnt covered under their buildings insurance policy. 
Mrs H and Mr H complained to AXA saying the roof had been in good repair. They said the 
assessor had been rude and had already decided against their claim before inspecting the 
damage.
AXA maintained the damage was caused over a period of time and not a result of a storm. 
But they apologised for the attitude of the assessor and offered Mrs H and Mr H £50 for this.
Mrs H and Mr H werent happy with AXAs response and referred their complaint to us.  
Our investigator said AXA had applied the policy exclusion fairly and didnt ask AXA to do 
anything more.
Mrs H and Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs H and Mr H that Ive thought very carefully about everything they have 
said, and the information provided. But having done so, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.
The issue I need to decide is whether AXA is entitled to decline Mrs H and Mr Hs claim 
under the buildings insurance policy and what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint.
Mrs H and Mr H are adamant the damage to their roof was caused by a storm and not 
resulting from gradual deterioration. Damage caused by storm is covered by the policy. But 
Mrs H and Mr Hs policy doesnt define the word storm which isnt unusual. This service 
takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, 
hail or snow.
Our approach in storm cases is to ask three questions:
Was there a storm on or around the loss?
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage? And
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer Yes to all three questions that we can say the insurer tis liable to 
pay the claim under the policy for storm damage. 
Was there a storm on or around the loss?
For the first question AXA hasnt commented on whether they have accepted there was a 
storm or not.  And their policy terms and conditions dont define what they consider a storm 
to be.
But having checked the weather stations closest to Mrs H and Mr Hs house. The highest 
wind gust reported on and around 26 and 27 December 2020 was 44mph. And the 
maximum rainfall in the previous 24 hours was 22mm. Storms are generally considered to 
have gusts of 50mph and above. As AXA hasnt commented on whether there was a storm 
or not, Ill look at the next question.
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Damage such as loose or dislodged roof tiles or gutters is typical of that often caused by a 
storm or heavy winds. From the pictures Ive seen the gable end bricks appear to have been 
dislodged and fallen. But this doesnt appear to have been caused by an uplift of the slate 
tiled roof as these appear to still be in place.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
AXA sent an assessor to inspect the damage to the roof, and from their report I can see that:
. there was no evidence of any damage which could be attributed to a single storm event, 
there was evidence of cracks to the verge over a period of time. This has started to fall out. 
There was a previous patch to the top that has been carried out. It looks like cement has 
been out and left to dry and then cement over the top. It is also possible it could be a brick 
that had been put in. There does not seem to be a over hang on verge on the slate roof. 
There is no under cloak either so water will be able to get in the property.
And the assessor from their report determined the damage was a natural breakdown of 
materials. The surveyor who carried out the assessment of the damage is an expert in their 
field and from his report AXA declined the claim under the policy storm cover exclusion:
that does not arise from one identifiable incident which directly and immediately caused the 
loss or damage 
Taking everything, Ive seen into account, on balance, I dont think the answer to all three 
questions is yes. I think its more likely that the primary cause of damage was from a gradual 
deterioration - which the strong wind and rain might have highlighted  but which isnt 
covered by Mrs H and Mr Hs policy.So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to decline Mrs H and Mr Hs claim for damage 
to their roof as it wasnt caused by a one identifiable incident  such as a storm.
I understand Mrs H and Mr H werent happy with the assessor who inspected their roof as 
they feel hed decided the outcome before his inspection. And had made the comment that 
their insurance policy wasnt a maintenance contract. I know Mrs H and Mr H dont agree 
with his report as they have said their roof was in good condition prior to the storm. But I 
dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the report. I can see AXA 
has said they will provide feedback about the assessors attitude and have offered £50 to 
compensate Mrs H and Mr H for this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman