DRN-4409207
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main events.
Mr B took out a travel insurance policy alongside a UK holiday booking. The contract was 
underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr B booked UK holiday accommodation, which he intended to 
share with friends. The remainder of Mr Bs party were all overseas nationals.
Unfortunately, one of Mr Bs travelling companions was denied entry to the UK, as they 
didnt have the appropriate visa. This meant that Mr Bs friends werent able to travel to the 
UK and Mr B decided against holidaying alone. So he cancelled the holiday booking and 
made a claim on the travel insurance policy.
Initially, Great Lakes turned down Mr Bs claim because it didnt think he was a UK national  
which meant he wouldnt have been eligible for the policy. Ultimately though, Great Lakes 
concluded that the circumstances of the claim werent covered by the policy terms. It did 
accept that thered been delays in the way itd handled Mr Bs claim and so, in May 2023, it 
offered him £200 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with Great Lakes position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
explained that following Great Lakes initial decision to decline the claim based on its belief 
that he wasnt a UK national, hed experienced further delays and poor service. And he didnt 
think it had been fair for Great Lakes to conclude that the claim wasnt covered.
Our investigator didnt think it had been unfair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Bs claim. 
Thats because he didnt think the policy covered Mr Bs situation and he also thought the 
claim was specifically excluded from cover. He considered that Great Lakes had already 
made a fair offer of compensation for any delays in its handling of the claim up to the point it 
issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint in May 2023.
Mr B disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes 
to exclude claims arising from events which arent specifically covered. He considered that 
hed been forced to cancel the trip due to events beyond his control. Hed planned to enjoy 
the holiday with friends  and that holiday had been rendered impossible. He felt that a claim 
for his own portion of the costs could at least be considered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think it was unfair for Great 
Lakes to turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr B that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
I must also make it clear that this decision will only cover the complaint points which Great 
Lakes addressed within its final response letters of December 2022 and May 2023. Those 
complaints points are a) whether it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down the claim and b) the 
way Great Lakes handled the claim. I appreciate Mr B has had ongoing correspondence with 
Great Lakes since May 2023 and he feels hes continued to experience communication 
delays and poor service. However, before we can comment on any post-May 2023 customer 
service issues, Great Lakes must be given a chance to look into those particular concerns 
and respond to them. So if Mr B would like to make a new complaint about the way Great 
Lakes handled the claim between May and October 2023, its open to him to do so. If he 
remains unhappy with Great Lakes response, we may potentially be able to look into a new 
complaint about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the policy terms and the circumstances of the claim, to decide whether I think Great Lakes 
treated Mr B fairly.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr B and Great Lakes. Its common ground that Mr B didnt go on holiday, as one 
of his travelling companions didnt have the requisite visa to travel to the UK. So I think it 
was reasonable and appropriate for Great Lakes to consider the claim in line with the 
cancellation section of the policy. Ive set out the relevant terms below:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Booking in total per 
Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits, following necessary 
and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of: 
1. The death, Bodily Injury or Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You, 
Your Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom You had 
arranged to stay; or 
2. Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for 
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk 
of the Courts Office; or 
3. You or Your travelling companion being a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and Your or their authorised leave being 
cancelled due to an unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of Your 
trip; or 
4. You or Your travelling companion being instructed to stay at Home (within 7 days 
of Your departure date) by a relevant authority due to severe damage to Your or their 
Home or place of business in the United Kingdom caused by serious fire, explosion, 
storm, flood, subsidence or burglary; or 5. Your involuntary redundancy or that of Your travelling companion or Your spouse, 
civil partner or cohabiting partner, notified after the purchase of this Policy or after the 
trip was booked, whichever is later.
We wont generally tell an insurer what risks it should and shouldnt insure. Thats a 
commercial decision for an insurer to make. In my view, Great Lakes has clearly set out the 
list of specific, insured events its chosen to cover. Its clear that Mr Bs trip wasnt cancelled 
for any of those listed reasons. So I dont think it was unfair or reasonable for Great Lakes to 
conclude that no part of Mr Bs claim was covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
And I agree with our investigator that the claim is specifically excluded from cover too. The 
cancellation section of the policy also lists things which Great Lakes has decided not to 
insure. Ive set out the exclusions I think are relevant to the circumstances of Mr Bs claim:
Any claim as a result of Your decision to cancel the trip for reasons other than those 
listed within this section.
Any claim as a result of a failure to have the required passport, visa or other relevant 
travel permission.
As Ive explained above, Mr Bs trip wasnt cancelled due to any of the listed, specific insured 
events detailed in the insurance contract and so I think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on 
the above exclusion. I dont find this term to be unfair or unusual  in my experience, travel 
insurance policies will generally set out the risks an insurer has chosen to cover and to 
exclude. 
I appreciate Mr B says that the reason his travelling companion didnt have the relevant visa 
was because of miscommunication by a government department. However, its still the case 
that his travelling companion didnt have the necessary documentation to allow them to enter 
the UK. And therefore, I dont think it was unfair for Great Lakes to conclude that the claim 
would also be excluded due to the visa exclusion.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr Bs insurance policy. But in this case, I dont 
think there is any other section which would cover the circumstances of Mr Bs claim. 
So it follows that while I sympathise with Mr Bs position and I can entirely understand why 
he didnt want to take the trip alone, the circumstances of his claim simply arent covered by 
the policy terms. Therefore, I dont think it was unfair or reasonable for Great Lakes to turn 
down Mr Bs full claim. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could direct Great Lakes to pay Mr Bs claim.
Great Lakes accepts that it didnt handle Mr Bs claim as well as it should have done. There 
were delays in its communications with him and it initially wrongly turned down the claim 
because it concluded that Mr B wasnt a UK national. So I think Great Lakes handling of the 
claim up until May 2023 caused Mr B unnecessary, material additional inconvenience and 
upset. And I think it was appropriate for Great Lakes to offer Mr B compensation to reflect 
the impact of its claims handling errors on him. In my view, the £200 compensation Great 
Lakes has already offered Mr B is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the circumstances 
of this complaint. Mr B should let Great Lakes know if he now wishes to accept this particular 
offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman