DRN-2164073
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, as the receiving bank, did not do 
enough to help him when he raised concerns about a payment he had made. 
Mr B has also complained about the sending bank. That matter is being considered as part 
of a separate complaint, so in this decision I am only looking at the actions of NatWest. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I have summarized 
the key details below.
On Saturday 23 November 2019, Mr B made an online payment of £1,695 from his bank 
account to a NatWest bank account. He was intending to buy a business hed found 
advertised online and made the payment following discussions with the seller.
At 9:12 on Monday 25 November 2019, Mr B contacted his bank. He asked it to stop the 
payment as he thought he was about to be scammed. He explained he was supposed to 
have been in touch with the seller that morning but hed not responded. Mr B said he now 
thought the offer seemed too good to be true and that the business was priced below what 
he thought its market value might be. At 10:01, Mr Bs bank contacted NatWest. It explained 
Mr B had raised concerns about a payment hed made and it was possible hed been the 
victim of a scam. As funds remained, NatWest froze the receiving account and contacted its 
customer. 
In the interim, the seller emailed Mr B the details needed to run the business, including log in 
details for the website, email templates and links to forms. The email was sent at 11:54 and 
Mr B confirmed hed received the documents at 12:00. 
Later that afternoon, the seller responded to NatWest and provided evidence to support his 
position that he had had entered into an arrangement with Mr B and provided a service to 
him. 
NatWest considered the evidence the seller provided and felt this matter was not a scam, 
but a civil disagreement between the two parties. It removed the hold it had placed on the 
receiving account, releasing the funds back to its customer. NatWest contacted Mr Bs bank 
the next morning to let it know. 
Mr B then complained to NatWest. He said the bank had failed him and failed in its duty of 
care. He felt it had not investigated his claim correctly and had reached its decision to 
release the funds far too quickly.  
On 17 December 2019, NatWest issued its final response. It felt it had investigated the issue 
correctly by freezing the receiving account and making contact with its customer to find out 
more. It explained if evidence is received that it is a civil matter, the stop on the account will 
then be removed. It explained it was unable to give Mr B detailed information on the 
evidence its customer provided or the precise nature of its investigation, but it confirmed the 
correct processes were followed. NatWest concluded there had been no bank error and said 
it would not reimburse Mr B for his loss, suggesting this was instead a civil matter between 
the two parties. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. He said he was satisfied what happened was 
fraud and thats why he raised it as such. 
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded she was unable to fairly ask NatWest 
to refund Mr B. She didnt think the payment Mr B had made was covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code), which was established to provide protection 
for customers who fall victim to authorised push payment scams. She wasnt persuaded 
there was enough evidence to show the seller intended to deceive Mr B. Whilst she 
recognised the business arrangement between Mr B and the seller did not go as planned, 
she thought Mr B had paid for goods from a legitimate seller. 
She also looked at NatWests actions at the time and thought it had acted correctly, and in 
line with the Authorised Push Payment Voluntary Best Practice Standards issued by UK 
Finance and Financial Fraud Action UK in April 2018. She noted there wasnt a minimum 
timescale for investigating a dispute and that shed expect NatWest to act as quickly as 
possible to investigate any scam claim made against its customer. 
Mr B did not agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. In summary, he said 
hed been the victim of an injustice and the answer reached was not fair and reasonable. He 
said the banks investigation could not have been conducted to the high standards expected 
from the Financial Services industry in the timescale it took. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I agree with the position our Investigator reached. I think NatWest dealt 
with the matter properly. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr B, but I can see no basis on 
which I can fairly require NatWest to refund the money he sent. I will explain why. 
Should NatWest have refunded Mr B under the CRM Code? 
At the time Mr B made the payment, the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) was in force. NatWest has signed up to the CRM 
Code and it covers detection, prevention and response to APP scam payments. 
So Ive thought about if the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payment Mr B 
made and, in particular, whether NatWest ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the 
CRM Code. But I dont think NatWest is responsible for reimbursing Mr B because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code. The CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some 
way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Mr B made formed part of a civil dispute 
and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. In order to conclude that the payment Mr B 
made was part of a scam and therefore covered by the CRM Code, Id need to be 
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that the seller was not legitimate and had 
set out to deceive Mr B. But I dont think I can fairly say the seller had no intention of 
providing the goods or services Mr B paid for right from the start.
Mr B does not dispute that he received email templates, website log in details, email log in 
details and links to the paperwork the seller said would be required to run the business. Mr B 
spoke to the seller before he made the payment and Im mindful the dialogue with the seller 
continued after the payment was made. It would be unusual for a seller to continue to 
discuss a matter and engage with further contact when theres no obvious further financial 
gain to be had. 
The seller offered to support Mr B whilst he established the business by providing training 
and Im mindful that this did not take place. But I dont think this is a strong enough indicator 
that the business opportunity was a scam. Ive seen copies of emails exchanged between 
Mr B and the seller and I think the training and support ultimately did not happen because 
the working relationship between the parties deteriorated. 
Ive also seen the evidence the seller provided to NatWest. When NatWest reviewed it, it 
considered the matter to be a dispute between the two parties. I can appreciate that Mr B 
feels strongly that his own experience and dealings indicate the seller was operating a scam. 
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship 
with their bank, I think the evidence provided was sufficient to show the sellers legitimacy. 
I have not seen any persuasive evidence to show otherwise. As such, I dont think NatWest 
acted unfairly when it decided the payment Mr B made fell outside of the scope of the CRM 
Code.
Did NatWest treat Mr B fairly and reasonably when it released the funds back to its 
customer? 
Almost all of the money Mr B had sent to the seller remained when NatWest learned of the 
dispute Mr B had raised. So Ive also considered NatWests response when responding to 
the reporting of a potential scam from Mr Bs bank.
Mr B says NatWest did not conduct a fair and thorough investigation into the matter and 
reached the outcome too quickly. He suggests that both the victim and the fraudster should 
have contributed to the investigation and that it was impossible for a through investigation to 
have been undertaken in hours. 
But I think NatWest responded to Mr Bs bank appropriately, and within the timeframes and 
the manner set out in the Authorised Push Payment Voluntary Best Practice Standards. NatWest froze the receiving account and restricted the sellers access to it pending further 
enquiries. This is what I would expect to happen when a bank is put on notice of a potential 
problem and funds still remain. 
It was for NatWest as the sellers bank to contact its customer, conduct an investigation and 
recover funds if it was possible to do so. Mr Bs own bank was his sole point of contact in 
relation to this matter, so I dont think NatWest acted incorrectly by not contacting him 
directly to discuss the situation at any point.
I also dont think NatWest needed to consult with Mr Bs own bank before concluding its 
investigation. Banks have agreed on a set of necessary information to be collated by the 
sending bank following reports of a potential scam. Mr Bs bank collected this information 
from him when he phoned to report the situation and then provided it to NatWest.
NatWest contacted its customer and asked for more details around the payment. The seller 
provided evidence to support the legitimacy of the payment. The Best Practice Standards 
explain that NatWest did not need to return the funds to Mr Bs bank if there was a credible 
complaint or dispute received from the recipient of the funds. NatWest felt it had enough to 
make a determination that the sellers position was, on the face of it, credible and that the 
payment had not been sent incorrectly. From what Ive seen, I think it had a sufficient basis 
to fairly make that judgment call. By doing so, NatWest was not making a determination that 
the seller was entitled to the money over Mr B. It was making a determination that it was not 
required to return those funds to Mr Bs bank. The true ownership of funds is a matter for the 
Courts. I am not able to say who the legal owner of the money should be. In my role, I can 
only make a determination about the actions of NatWest. 
I can appreciate that Mr B does not have confidence in the depth of NatWests investigations 
because they were concluded quickly. But the seller responded to NatWests enquiries very 
quickly. There is nothing in and of itself concerning about that. Not being able to use a bank 
account is prohibitive and I dont find it unusual that the seller wanted to resolve that 
situation as soon as possible.  
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr B. But I can only make an award against a bank if that 
bank has done something wrong which has led to a loss. In this case, Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that NatWest has acted incorrectly or that it ought to have done more than 
it did to assist Mr B. I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably by not returning the funds. 
It follows that I cant fairly require NatWest to pay Mr B the money hes lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman