DRN-3716920
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society have unfairly declined his claim under 
s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In May 2013, Mr W and his wife (Mrs W) purchased holiday club points  these were to be 
used as part of a points-based membership for holiday accommodation. The total cost was 
£11,700 and Mr W paid in part using his credit card with Nationwide. (While there are many 
other purchases with the same supplier, my understanding is that Mr W is only complaining 
about the purchase Ive specified.)
Mr W says the product was misrepresented and that the supplier has breached the contract. 
In 2017 he raised a claim with Nationwide under s.75 CCA, via a professional 
representative. Mr W has said:
Mr W had existing points under this membership which he wanted to relinquish. He 
says they were told the only way to exit this was to purchase more points which they 
would then be able to relinquish in five years.
There was no fixed accommodation or specified time they could use it.
The agreement is null and void because its a perpetual contract which is illegal 
under Spanish Law.
Nationwide declined the claim, it said it didnt think Mr W had shown there had been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract in the circumstances. In summary it said:
Mr W had bought similar products previously and so would have known how the 
booking and points system operated.
The documents Mr and Mrs W signed dont support what Mr W is saying he was told 
and theres no specific mention of what service hasnt been provided. 
Whilst there was no evidence to support the assertion that Mr W had been told he 
could exit the membership after five years, it hadnt been five years since the 
purchase at the time of the claim and so it didnt know if this would be allowed or not.
When Mr W complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence that Mr W was given incorrect information at the 
time of sale, and they said the Spanish judgement referenced by Mr W occurred after this 
sale. They thought it was reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the fact it hadnt been five 
years since the purchase yet and added why they didnt think a court would conclude that an 
unfair relationship was in place.
Mr W didnt accept these findings or make any further points in response. So, the complaint 
was passed to me to consider.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 June 2022 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. I also explained that I couldnt see Mr W (or his representative) had raised with 
Nationwide any concerns that an unfair relationship existed for the purposes of s.140A CCA 
and so I wouldnt be considering or addressing this point.
Mr Ws representative explained they were seeking legal advice and so asked for additional 
time to respond  they have now provided their counsels submission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr W, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive considered whether Nationwide has fairly declined Mr Ws claim under s.75 CCA based 
on the reasons put forward under both misrepresentation and breach of contract. I think it 
has and Ill explain why:
In relation to Mr Ws available accommodation and the fact that the points werent 
tied to any specific dates - this is something that Mr W would have been aware of 
given his previous experience using this product over the years. He hasnt raised any 
specific issues in relation to his bookings and so I dont think Nationwide has done 
anything wrong in concluding this aspect of his purchase was unlikely to have been 
misrepresented.
Mr W says he was convinced to make this purchase because he was told this was 
the only way to exit the membership and essentially end any continuing obligations 
he had in relation to his existing points. I havent seen any evidence to support Mr 
Ws assertion that he would be able to exit the agreement after five years  however, 
given this time hadnt passed at the time of the claim, I think it was fair for Nationwide 
to say this wouldnt have constituted a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If 
Mr W has now experienced this issue, he should raise this as a new claim.Mr Ws representative has referenced a Spanish court judgement and says this type 
of agreement is illegal under Spanish Law. He therefore thinks the agreement is null 
and void, and therefore the credit agreement also should never have existed.  
Although this agreement was signed while Mr and Mrs W were in Spain, theres no 
evidence that the agreement is subject to Spanish Law. I havent been provided with 
a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws full purchase agreement, but from what Ive seen in others 
with this supplier, this agreement is likely to be subject to the laws of the Republic of 
Ireland with elements covered by English Law. I dont think that the Spanish 
judgment I have been asked to consider helps me determine the outcome of Mr Ws 
claim. That judgment dealt with a different timeshare agreement, governed by a 
different legal jurisdiction. I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude this 
agreement is null and void.
Ive reviewed the general submissions on behalf of complainants document provided by 
Mr Ws representatives legal counsel. Having done so, I dont think the arguments raised 
are relevant to this complaint. I dont think it would be helpful for me to explain point by point 
why the generic arguments raised in this 36-page document arent relevant to the complaint 
thats actually been raised, but the main issues are as follows:
The document focuses mainly on restricted use credit agreements taken out at the 
point of sale, and the credit broking requirements / lenders responsibilities in relation 
to those type of loans. However, this complaint relates to a payment Mr W made 
using his pre-existing credit card account.
The document also refers to the fairness of the purchase agreement terms in general 
and whether an unfair relationship is present for the purposes of s.140A CCA. But 
these issues havent been raised with Nationwide and dont form part of this 
complaint.
So, I cant see how these submissions help me determine the outcome of Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman