DRN-2933879
The complaint
Mrs W complains about five credit agreements taken out in her name with Sky UK Limited 
(SUL).
What happened
Between March and November 2018 five credit agreements were taken out with SUL in Mrs 
Ws name. Three of the agreements were taken out in November 2018. The credit 
agreements were taken out to buy mobile phones. 
Mrs W says she did not either take out the agreements herself or give authority for the 
agreements to be made. Rather, she suggests that her former partner, who was living with 
her at the time, entered into these agreements without her knowledge or consent.
Mrs W explains that she remained unaware of these agreements as they were being taken 
out and maintained because her former partner, intercepted the mail. Moreover, she 
received no texts or emails about the agreements. Then in November 2019, she tells us that 
she happened to be at home when the post arrived. She saw five letters from Sky addressed 
to her. She opened the letters and found out about the existence of the five credit 
agreements.
Mrs W tells us she told her former partner about the agreements, he admitted he had taken 
the agreements out. He also admitted taking out other finance agreements with third party 
lenders also in her name. According to Mrs W her former partner had been made redundant 
and was having money troubles. In order to try and alleviate his money problems, he had 
decided to use credit obtained in Mrs Ws name to tide him over. It appears, from what Mrs 
W tells us, that he sold the phones. It also appears her former partner was using the money 
he got by these means in part at least, to pay his share of the household expenses. Which is 
one of the reasons Mrs W suggests she didnt realise he was struggling financially before 
this. Mrs W indicates their relationship ended shortly thereafter and she moved out.
Initially Mrs W started to make payments towards the agreements. She suggests this was 
because she was worried about what would happen to her credit file if she did not. But she 
very quickly was unable to keep up with the repayments. The accounts fell into arrears and 
were defaulted. SUL sold the accounts to a third party who is now chasing Mrs W for the 
debt.
Mrs W complained to SUL. Initially she called about the agreements. She tells us she did not 
think there was anything she could do aside from try to pay off the agreements. Later, after 
she had taken advice, she told it about what her ex-partner had done. 
Mrs W points out that some of the contact details for the agreements i.e. the email address 
belonged to her ex-partner not her. Moreover, when the account was set up the direct debits 
were coming from an account that Mrs W says belonged to her ex-partner not to her. Further 
it appears that Mrs Ws former partner was able to link his own Sky ID to her account, at 
around the time the first agreement was taken out.
In any event Mrs W does not think that SUL took the appropriate steps to assess if she, the 
apparent borrower, could afford the lending. She also suggests that SUL did not assist her 
as it ought to have done once she began to struggle to repay it.
Mrs W wants SUL to buy back the debt and write it off. Further she wants her credit file 
amended to remove all mention of the agreements. 
SUL did not agree it had done anything wrong. However, it was prepared to look again at its 
stance if it saw information from the police to say it was prosecuting Mrs Ws ex-partner for 
fraud.
Dissatisfied Mrs W came to our service.
Once Mrs Ws complaint was with us SUL told us it carried out appropriate checks to verify 
Mrs Ws identity before going ahead with the agreements. It said it checked, amongst other 
things, sensitive personal information such as name, date of birth and address. It indicated 
that it also did other checks, but it was unwilling to share the details with us. It told us this 
was because this was business sensitive information. Its stance is that either Mrs W or 
someone acting on her behalf took out the agreements on that basis it decided to hold Mrs 
W responsible for all five agreements.
SUL also confirmed that all five agreements were made online. It seems the method for 
doing this was via the Sky Box in Mrs Ws home using her Sky ID. It was unable to provide 
logs that related to Mrs Ws Sky ID for the period when the finance agreements were taken 
out. Further, it added that each time one of the mobile phones was delivered the person who 
took delivery provided identification documents for Mrs W. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. She came to the view that on 
balance Mrs W did not enter into the agreements. Further, she also came to the view that on 
balance Mrs W neither gave authority for a third party to enter into the agreements on her 
behalf, nor had she given a third party apparent authority to enter into the agreements. 
Moreover, overall, our investigator was not satisfied appropriate checks were carried out 
before the lending was made and she did not think the lending was affordable. Neither did 
she consider that SUL had demonstrated that it monitored appropriately for financial 
difficulties when the agreements were live. 
In addition, our investigator considered that SUL had acted inappropriately when it sold the 
debt twice after Mrs W complained even though it ought reasonably to have known she was 
not in a financial position to pay off the debt.
For all of these reasons our investigator recommended that SUL:
Buy back the debt from the third party who owned the debt at the time that our 
investigators view was issued, (or whoever now owns the debt) in relation to the five 
finance agreements taken out in Mrs Ws name
Write off the outstanding amount relating to the debts
Refund the payments Mrs W made herself towards the agreements (from the date 
she first contacted SUL about the loans in November 2019)
o SUL should add 8% simple interest to each payment refunded, from the date it 
was paid by Mrs W until the date SUL settles the complaint.
Remove all five credit agreements from Mrs Ws credit file
Pay Mrs W £250 for distress and inconvenience.
It appears that Mrs W accepted our investigators recommendation, but SUL did not. In 
summary, in response SUL reiterated its position that Mrs W ought reasonable be held 
responsible for the agreements. It accepted that it isnt unreasonable to expect a long-term 
partner to have access to enough basic personal information and documents to pass the 
relevant industry standard credit and ID checks that are in place, but this responsibility 
remains with the individual.Further, SUL explained that the Sky ID amongst other things allows the person who is using 
it to access all associated functions (such as changing personal information, making 
amendments to subscriptions, or ordering devices). SULs position is that by seemingly 
permitting her ex-partner access to her Sky ID from its perspective Mrs W would be deemed 
as permitting full account control and thus, authority. It also pointed out that the protection of 
Sky ID credentials are the responsibility of the ID holder. It pointed to its terms and 
conditions which it suggested Mrs W had agreed to and which mean that Mrs W is 
responsible for any loss it has suffered:
3.5. We may require you to reimburse us for any reasonable and foreseeable losses, costs 
and expenses which we incur as a direct result of the misuse of the App or Service by you 
or any one you have allowed to use the App or Service.
Moreover, SUL explained its stance to what it called domestic matters. It told us if Mrs W 
had reported this matter to the police and a formal crime reference number had been 
allocated it would have cancelled the agreements and cleared any associated debts. 
SUL had provided us with the payment history for the agreements. There were immediate 
late payments on at least one of the accounts. It did not agree that this might be an 
indication that either the person paying could not afford the lending or was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Rather it to said it is the customers responsibility to manage their affairs 
to adhere to the contract in which they enter in to. [SUL] cannot be held responsible for a 
customers mismanagement if appropriate affordability checks which are carried out with [a 
credit reference agency] confirm their eligibility for any given product(s). In this case, each 
application passed those affordability checks resulting in the orders being fulfilled.
Further still, SUL did not agree that it had acted inappropriately in selling the debt on twice. 
Rather, it suggested that Mrs W had not taken the steps she ought to have done to prevent it 
following this course of action.
Notwithstanding its response, purely as a goodwill gesture, SUL offered to:
Retrieve the balance from the current debt owner in relation to the Credit Agreements.
Cancel the agreements and clear any associated amounts relating to the debts.
Knowing the proceeds of the sale of these devices was used, as you mentioned, for 
household bills it would be fair to assume Mrs W indirectly benefited from this. SUL 
feels it is unreasonable to refund the payments that Mrs W made towards the 
agreements or acknowledge any interest youve requested be paid.
Remove any footprint of these Agreements from Mrs Ws credit file.
It also told us that the £250 for distress and inconvenience we recommended was 
unreasonable.
Meanwhile Mrs W told us she was working on each of the occasions when the mobile 
phones were delivered.
We had reached an impasse, so I was asked to take a fresh look at Mrs Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
There seems to be three possibilities here that might give SUL a proper basis for pursuing 
Mrs W for the debt.
Option 1 Mrs W contracted directly with SUL.
Option 2 Mrs W gave a third party actual authority to contract with SUL on her behalf
Option 3 Mrs W gave a third party apparent authority to contract with SUL on her behalf. I 
will look at each scenario in turn.
Option 1
As I mention above, the first question I think I need to look at is, on balance did Mrs W make 
the contract with SUL?
Mrs W says she did not. SULs position appears more nuanced. Initially it appeared to be 
saying provided its identity checks went far enough it was entitled to assume that the person 
who purported to contract with it was who they said they were. And it followed therefore that 
there was a valid contract between it and Mrs W. Now its position seems to be slightly 
different it seems  to suggest it is entitled to say it has a valid contract with Mrs W as she did 
not take enough care to make sure that a third party did not have access to enough basic 
personal information and documents to pass the relevant industry standard credit and ID 
checks that are in place. 
However, I think that the question here is based on the information I have were the 
fundamentals of contract law in place such that I can fairly say that a valid contract was 
formed?  I dont think they were. 
I find it likely that Mrs Ws ex-partner did have access to enough basic personal information 
and documents to pass the credit and ID checks SUL had in place. Moreover, I also find it 
likely, such is modern life, that Mrs W was logged in automatically to her Sky ID via her Sky 
Box and anyone who had access to that Box had access to her Sky ID. 
I think it is notable that the finance agreements were set up with an email address that does 
not appear to belong to Mrs W. I also think it is notable that the direct debits were initially 
coming from an account that on balance was not Mrs Ws account. It does not seem that 
SUL is disputing that the email address and the account did not belong to Mrs W.
The linking of her ex-partners own Sky ID to her account and the timing of it also suggests it 
was not Mrs W who was making these agreements.
I also find her behaviour in November 2019 when she contacted SUL about the accounts to 
be consistent with her version of events.
SUL does not appear to suggest that Mrs W, possesses the phones, or sold the phones or 
benefitted directly from their sale. Mrs W says she knew nothing about them. And was 
unable to provide the phones to SUL when they asked for them back in order to reduce her 
liability. Which begs the question, why would Mrs W take out these agreements, then hand 
over the phones to someone else to sell but leave herself with the full and sole liability under 
the finance agreements?In the circumstances, I think Mrs W never accepted any offer from SUL in regard to these 
finance agreements because it was not her who was in contact with SUL when the contracts 
were made. I dont agree therefore, that Mrs W and SUL contracted directly in relation to 
these agreements.
Option 2
That said if Mrs W authorised the third party who purported to be her to enter into the 
contract I think that a valid contract may have been formed. In those circumstances I would 
find that it was fair and reasonable that SUL be allowed to pursue Mrs W for the debt.
For the purposes of this decision I am going to assume that the third party who purported to 
be Mrs W was her ex-partner. I dont think the parties would disagree about this for the 
purposes of me considering if Mrs W gave actual authority or apparent authority to a third 
party for these agreements to be entered into on her behalf.
But for the same reasons that I dont think that Mrs W entered into the contract directly 
neither do I think she gave her ex-partner her actual authority to act on her behalf.
It follows I dont think that Mrs W contracted with SUL via an agent (her former partner), who 
had her actual authority to enter into these agreements on her behalf.
Option 3
In the alternative, I have also thought about whether Mrs W represented to SUL that her ex-
partner had her apparent authority to enter into these agreements on her behalf. If she did 
again I think it likely that a valid contract would be created, or that at least SUL might have 
some proper basis to seek to recover its loss from her. 
SUL appears to suggest that the mere fact that Mrs W may have given her ex-partner 
access to her Sky ID via the Sky box is sufficient, by itself, to say she authorised his actions 
in entering into the contract. 
I dont agree I can draw the conclusion SUL invites me to make, simply because Mrs W 
might have taken greater care to ensure that her ex-partner did not have access to her Sky 
ID. SUL has outlined the many associated functions that the Sky ID permits, its purpose is 
not solely to permit the ID holder to enter into finance agreements for mobile phones. I dont 
agree therefore Mrs W was giving any apparent authority to her ex-partner to enter into such 
agreements on her behalf, even if she did give him access to her Sky ID.
Moreover, I find it likely that Mrs W did not knowingly give her ex-partner her Sky ID. It may 
be that she created the conditions that allowed her ex-partner to get her Sky ID but even that 
is not enough I find to say that she was giving apparent authority to her ex-partner to take 
out finance agreements in her name. I also note as an aside, that I rather doubt Mrs W had 
any inkling that a finance agreement for mobile phones could be applied for with this ID.
I dont place reliance on clause 3.5, SUL has not shown that this clause was part of its 
contract with Mrs W. I have no context for example to tell me when and how Mrs W agreed 
to be bound by that clause.
For all of these reasons, I dont agree that SUL has any proper basis to pursue Mrs W for 
this debt. It follows I find it needs to buy back all of the debt, write-off the balance owing, 
cancel the agreements, and ask the credit reference agencies to remove all record of these 
agreements from her credit file. I also find that it must refund any payments she has made 
towards these agreements and add interest to that refund. I dont agree that while Mrs W 
may indirectly and unknowingly have benefitted from the sale of the phones, this is sufficient 
reason to say she should not be refunded for payments she made to agreements she is not 
responsible for. In any event, it is not clear where or how the proceeds of the sale were 
spent and that she did get a benefit, albeit indirectly.By pursuing Mrs W for the debt in these circumstances I also find that SUL acted unfairly 
and this likely caused Mrs W distress and inconvenience I find a payment of £250 is a both a 
fair and a reasonable award for this.
The main thrust of Mrs W complaint was about the agreements and whether she should be 
held responsible for them. However, for completeness I will briefly look at the remaining 
complaint points.
I accept that SUL appears to have a blanket approach to domestic matters which it 
appears doesnt take into account individual circumstances. Thats a matter for it. I cant tell 
SUL (or any business) that its policies or procedures are wrong  thats a commercial 
decision it is entitled to make. 
But sometimes, the normal application of a business standard policy or procedure leads to 
an unfair outcome for a consumer. And thats what I think has happened here. SUL did not 
establish with Mrs W why she might not be able to report the matter to the police or do so in 
the timescale that it seems to expect. It withheld the redress it might otherwise have offered 
her because she did not fit the conditions it set. I think that was unfair to Mrs W. I think that 
also caused her distress and inconvenience, the £250 I have awarded is meant to cover this 
too. I also note that Mrs W did report the matter to Action Fraud and get a crime number that 
was given it seems to SUL I dont see why, given what I have been told about SULs policy 
this was not enough.
In summary, when lending money to a consumer, SUL is required to ensure the consumer 
can repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. A lender should obtain sufficient information to make an informed decision 
about the lending. Exactly what a lender should consider is for each lender to decide and the 
guidance and rules list a number of things each lender may wish to consider. Any checks 
should be proportionate, based on the size of the borrowing.
I cant tell what checks SUL did overall, so I cant say they are proportionate. Whereas the 
payment history of the accounts suggests to me that whoever took out the lending initially 
could not afford it. And certainly, once Mrs W was making the repayments I think she soon 
experienced financial difficulty. In such cases SUL has obligations to act fairly, with due 
consideration and forbearance towards consumers who are in financial difficulties. I dont 
agree it did here. It is not enough for SUL to suggest that once its checks have been passed 
it is then down to the borrower to manage their money. Again, I think acting in this manner is 
likely to have caused Mrs W distress and inconvenience, which the £250 is meant in part to 
cover.
Its entirely up to SUL if it sells on an active debt. That however may be inconsistent in some 
cases with its obligations towards a consumer who is in financial difficulty. SUL had a 
breakdown of Mrs Ws finances. It knew her situation, in these circumstances, it was not 
appropriate to pass the debt on without making sure those new owners had the full picture. 
In particular that they knew there was no realistic prospect of full payment. Again, I think this 
most likely did cause Mrs W distress and inconvenience. I think the £250 is a fair and 
reasonable award for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Sky UK Limited must:
Buy back the debt from the third party who owns the debt in relation to the five finance 
agreements taken out in Mrs Ws name. This includes any fees or charges applied by 
any third parties in relation to the debt. Mrs W must be left owing nothing to the third 
party.
Write-off the outstanding amount relating to the debts. Mrs W must be left owing 
nothing to Sky UK Limited.Cancel the agreements.
Refund the payments Mrs W made herself towards the agreements (from the date 
she first contacted Sky UK Limited about the loans in November 2019)
o SUL should add 8% simple interest per year to each payment refunded, the 
interest to run from the date it was paid by Mrs W until the date Sky UK Limited 
settles the complaint.
Contact the credit reference agencies and request that they remove all mention of all 
five credit agreements from Mrs Ws credit file.
Pay Mrs W £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Sky UK Limited must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mrs W 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £250 from 
the date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs W can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Mrs W should refer back to Sky UK Limited if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and 
both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman