The complaint
Mr R has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Hes unhappy about a 
personal pension policy (PPP) he started with Provident Mutual in 1988.
What happened
Aviva administers the PPP Mr R started with Provident Mutual in 1988. Mr R was self-
employed at the time, but he moved into pensionable employment and joined his employers 
pension scheme soon after. Provident Mutual wrote to him in 1991 telling him that he could 
no longer contribute to the PPP as he had joined his employers scheme.
Mr R complained to Aviva in 2020. Hes unhappy that he wasnt told he wouldnt be able to 
contribute into the pension if he moved into employment and joined an employer scheme. 
He says that he wasnt warned of the risks, and hes likely to have a PPP with no value.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it hadnt sold the policy to Mr R. An IFA 
had been involved. Aviva said that it was up to the IFA to advise on the PPP and its 
suitability for Mr R.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. He didnt 
think Aviva had provided advice. The investigator explained that Mr R had joined a group 
trust investment account (GTIA). This was a group personal pension scheme set up by 
Macintyre Hudson. Aviva said that Provident Mutual had marketed the GTIA to Macintyre 
Hudson and it would then offer it to its employees and also sell it to individual customers as 
a PPP. 
The application form Mr R had completed in 1988 was for the GTIA and it referred to 
Macintyre Financial Services (MFS) as the independent financial adviser.
The investigator felt that it was likely that MFS was acting independently when it sold the 
PPP and it was responsible for assessing the suitability of it.  
The letter that was sent to Mr R in 1991 also suggested that he refer to his financial advisers 
and identified them as MFS.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that the FSCS wouldnt investigate a complaint about MFS 
although it had ceased trading. He also said that MFS had held itself out as acting as agent 
of Provident Mutual and so Aviva was now vicariously liable for the sale of the PPP.
Mr R wasnt able to provide any documentary evidence of this agency relationship.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
DRN-1975556What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning which I have set out above. I dont 
uphold this complaint. There is very little that I can add to what the investigator has already 
said. Essentially, Aviva isn't responsible for the advice Mr R was given when he started this 
PPP.
This PPP was sold almost twenty years ago and so its not surprising that the evidence is 
incomplete. There is no evidence from MFS as it has ceased trading.
Having considered the evidence that is available, I think it is likely that MFS advised Mr R.  
There is no documentary evidence to suggest that MFS was acting as agent of 
Aviva/Provident Mutual in the sale of this PPP to Mr R as he suggests..
The documentary evidence we have suggests that in fact MFS was acting as Mr Rs 
independent financial adviser. Thats what Avivas records say, and the letter form Provident 
Mutual in 1991 expressly identifies MFS as the relevant adviser.
Im satisfied, on balance of probability that MFS was acting as Mr Rs independent financial 
adviser and not as an agent for Provident Mutual. It was the advisers responsibility to advise 
on the PPP, and assess its suitability for Mr R, and not the product provider. So it wouldnt 
be fair to uphold this complaint about Aviva as it wasnt responsible for the sale of the 
PPP or the recommendation that was made.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman