DRN-2260253
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) did not correctly transfer shares 
into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and this may cause her to pay tax on income she 
receives. Mrs L also complains that Halifax did not contact her when promised. Mrs L is 
represented by her husband, Mr L, in this complaint.
  
What happened
Mrs L opened a share dealing account with Halifax on 7 May 2019. This was opened online 
and the next day, a transfer intent form was downloaded online and completed by Mrs L. 
This was sent to Halifax and they received it on 10 May. Halifax also received a 90-day ISA 
transfer form from Mrs L on the same day.
The transfer of shares from the old provider to Mrs Ls share dealing account at Halifax was 
completed on 11 June 2019 and a confirmation letter was sent to Mrs L. Details of the 
transfer were passed internally to the Halifax ISA team for completion. At this point, it was 
discovered that Mrs L did not have an ISA account opened and a text message was sent to 
Mrs Ls phone advising her to call Halifax. No response was received to this text message 
and Halifax cancelled the transfer of shares to an ISA and the shares remained in Mrs Ls 
share dealing account.
Mr L contacted Halifax on 23 July 2019 to ask why Mrs L had not received her dividend 
payment to her nominated account. He was told that this would be in the account the next 
day. Mr L was not informed that the shares remained in the share dealing account and not in 
an ISA.
Mr L contacted Halifax by telephone on 13 January 2020 to again ask about dividend 
payments. At this point he was told that the account was a share dealing account and not an 
ISA. Halifax said that they would investigate this and call him back. This call was not 
followed up.
Mr L called back on 31 January and Halifax said that the shares were held in a share dealing 
account as there was no ISA opened. Halifax said that a text message was sent asking that 
she call them but they did not receive a response. Halifax advised how Mrs L could open 
and ISA and said they would confirm with the previous broker that the shares did come from 
an ISA. Mr L raised a complaint at this point and asked that all communication be done by 
letter. 
Mr L followed up this call with a letter where he complained about the service and said that 
Mrs L had completed a form that was designated an ISA transfer and could not understand 
why the shares had not been allocated ISA status. He also said that the letter to Mrs L 
confirmed that ISA shares had been transferred. 
Halifax replied to this letter and said that the shares had not been allocated ISA status as no 
ISA was opened by Mrs L and that she had completed an incorrect form. The complaint was 
partially upheld as Mr L did not receive the promised telephone calls. Halifax offered £75 for 
the trouble and upset caused. Halifax did not uphold the complaint about any additional tax 
that Mrs L may have to pay as the shares were not within an ISA.
Mr L did not accept Halifaxs findings and wrote to the service. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint and thought that Halifax could have communicated more effectively 
with Mrs L, but they did not think that Halifax had done anything wrong in cancelling the 
transfer. They asked Halifax to increase their award to £175. 
Both Halifax and Mr L were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsman to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided lengthy submissions to the service and this has helped inform my 
decision. I agree with much of what the investigator has said and I partially uphold the 
complaint and will explain why.
The complaint can be broken down into several points and I will provide my thoughts on 
each one:
it was not clear what documents were to be completed when Mrs L was applying to 
transfer shares into a new ISA
Halifax did not communicate effectively with Mrs L and should have done more to follow 
up on the transfer request 
as a result of the wrong form being completed, Mrs L may have a tax liability as the 
income from her shares and any gains arising from a future sale would be subject to tax 
It was not clear what documents were to be completed when Mrs L was applying to 
transfer shares into a new ISA
I have looked at what was presented to Mrs L when she logged on Halifaxs website to 
transfer her ISA and open a new ISA account. Directly under the first sentence about the ISA 
Transfer there is a large blue button that its titled Open an ISA. Clicking on this would take 
the client to the ISA account opening page but Mrs L proceeded to click on a link at the 
bottom of the page which downloaded the 90-day transfer form.
I think that on this point it should have been clear that the Open an ISA button should have 
been used which would have taken Mrs L to another page which would have started the ISA 
application process but I do have to consider that some people are not familiar with online 
pages and find it difficult to navigate around websites. I dont think that Halifax have done 
anything wrong on this point.
Halifax did not communicate effectively with Mrs L and should have done more to 
follow up on the transfer request 
Halifax sent a text message to Mrs L asking her to contact them following receipt of the 90-
day transfer form. When no response was received from Mrs L, they cancelled the transfer 
and kept her shares in a share dealing account.The adjudicator has said that it appeared to him that Mrs L preferred to communicate via 
letter (something that Mr L also requested). I acknowledge that Mrs L was accessing Halifax 
online share dealing platform and a certain amount of reliance can be placed by Halifax that 
the client is familiar with this type of channel, but I think that placing reliance on a single text 
message without any follow up does not lend itself to a particularly good client outcome.
Halifax should have known that the transfer from the previous provider was from an ISA and 
although their internal process was to place the shares into a share dealing account upon 
receipt, they could have sought clarification from Mrs L before cancelling the request to 
transfer.
There were several further points of contact between Mr L and Halifax where this could have 
been clarified and the correct course of action taken. I do note that Halifax have said that an 
ISA account must be opened by Mrs L for the shares to be transferred from the share 
dealing account to an ISA. To date, Mrs L has not done so.
On this part of the complaint I think that Halifax could have done more than sending one text 
message and cancelling the transfer. Halifax have acknowledged that they failed to call Mr L 
when they said they would and there was a delay in recalling the file containing the transfer 
request. Halifax have offered £75 in compensation for this.
As a result of the wrong form being completed, Mrs L may have a tax liability as the 
income from her shares and any gains arising from a future sale would be subject to 
tax 
As it currently stands, Mrs L holds her shares in a share dealing account and outside of a 
tax-free wrapper. This means that any income that is paid on her shares will attract income 
tax and if there are any gains from a future sale, this may attract capital gains tax. Shares 
held within an ISA are currently free from tax.
I need to consider if the actions of Halifax contributed to Mrs L having a tax liability on the 
shares she currently holds within the share dealing account. In taking this into account I 
need to consider what actions Mrs L has taken to mitigate the risk of this happening. This 
risk could immediately be mitigated by her opening an ISA and I note that Mrs L has not 
opened an ISA.
On this point I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong and I note that Mrs L has not 
opened an ISA yet so that her shares are in a tax-free wrapper.
In summary, I find that by completing the wrong form, Mrs L did not give an instruction for an 
ISA to be opened and Halifax cant be held liable for any tax that her shares may be subject 
to. I think that Halifax could have handled the transfer cancellation better and not placed 
reliance on one text that may not have been in keeping with how Mrs L normally did her 
business.
I think that the compensation award that the investigator asked Halifax to pay is reasonable 
and I will be asking Halifax to do this.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mrs L £175 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Mrs L has cashed the initial cheque of £75, issue another cheque for £100 in respect of 
compensation payable for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman