DRN-3069754
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited has dealt 
with his payments for a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement. His 
partner is dealing with his complaint.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services that he signed in June 2018. He agreed to make 48 monthly payments of 
£435.84 for the car and there was a final payment of £9,562.50. The payment date was 
changed in November 2019, payment deferrals were then requested and agreed to and the 
account was brought up to date in June 2020. Payment deferrals were requested and 
agreed in November and December 2020 so the account was then two months in arrears. 
The monthly payment was modified in February 2021 to £466.99 and Mr W made a payment 
in April 2021 to reduce the arrears to one month. A payment arrangement was then set up 
for him to pay an additional £40 each month to clear the arrears.
Volkswagen Financial Services sent arrears letters and text messages to Mr W from May to 
August 2021 despite the payment arrangement being in place and he and his partner 
contacted it regularly about those communications. Mr W also asked it to change his 
payment date but the change wasnt made correctly. 
Mr Ws partner complained to Volkswagen Financial Services about these issues. It 
accepted that the arrears letters and text messages were sent in error and that the payment 
date hadnt been changed correctly. It apologised for those errors and credited a total of 
£1,360.97 to Mr Ws account which cleared the arrears.
Mr Ws partner then complained to this service as she said that it wasnt clear when 
payments would be due, whether the arrears correspondence would continue, whether there 
were arrears on the account and whether theyd been reported to credit reference agencies. 
She also said that Volkswagen Financial Services hadnt considered the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its errors and hadnt made a suitable offer to resolve the complaint 
but had taken action without first consulting her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that the total 
payment of £1,360.97 already made to Mr Ws account demonstrated that Volkswagen 
Financial Services had taken a very fair and reasonable approach to this case. He said that 
there was no dispute that it had made multiple errors but it was his understanding that they 
had been resolved so he wouldnt be asking it to take any further action.
Mr Ws partner has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Shes 
described the issues that she and Mr W have had with Volkswagen Financial Services and 
says that its credited the payments to Mr Ws account to fix the errors as it was the only way 
to stop them so she doesnt agree that its taken into consideration the stress and distress 
that this has caused. She feels that it should further compensate them for those issues and 
shes suggested compensation of half of a monthly payment, which would be £233.49.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
its clear that there have been errors in the way that Volkswagen Financial Services 
has dealt with Mr Ws account  including the arrears letters and text messages that 
it sent to him between May and August 2021 and the issues with changing the 
payment date;
it has apologised to Mr W for those issues and has confirmed that the payments will 
be collected on the 29th day of each month and that Mr Ws credit file has been 
reviewed and any adverse information recorded in relation to any COVID related 
arrears has been removed;
it also credited two monthly payments of £466.99 and two payments of £40 to Mr Ws 
account in July 2021 and then credited £346.99 to his account in August 2021 which 
cleared the arrears;
the errors that it has made will have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr W but 
it has accepted that it has made errors, it has apologised for them and has tried to 
correct them and has credited a total of £1,360.97 to Mr Ws account;
two complaints had been made to Volkswagen Financial Services and I dont 
consider that it acted incorrectly when it issued final response letters on those 
complaints to Mr W and made credits to his account in response to those complaints 
 Mr Ws partner says that it should have consulted her before taking that action but I 
dont consider that there was any requirement for it to do so;
I consider that Volkswagen Financial Services has responded to Mr Ws complaint 
fairly and reasonably and crediting £1,360.97 to his account, which cleared the 
arrears on his account, is more than I would have required it to do in these 
circumstances; and
I sympathise with Mr W for the issues that hes been caused but I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require Volkswagen Financial Services to pay any 
further compensation to him or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman