DRN-3662052
The complaint
Mr V has complained PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie, SCA wont refund £5,000 for transactions 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr V complained to PayPal that nine transactions had been made from his 
account to three people he didnt know. PayPal wouldnt refund him as their records showed 
a device previously used by him to access his PayPal account had been used.
Mr V brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator confirmed to PayPal wed received evidence from Mr Vs solicitors which 
showed Mr V was not in a position to make the disputed payments in April 2021. During the 
period he wasnt at home, his devices had been stolen and misused. PayPal was asked to 
refund Mr V.
PayPal didnt agree to this and have asked an ombudsman to consider the complaint. They 
confirmed payments to family and friends  as these nine disputed payments were  were 
ineligible for their payment protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Vs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing specific applies to Mr Vs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what PayPal and Mr V have told us. Ive also noted what our investigator wrote in his 
view.
We have a clear timeline of events which show the nine disputed transactions took place in 
April 2021. Theres no dispute Mr Vs own devices were used to make these transactions, 
but these were stolen from where hed been living. Ive also seen evidence which shows why 
Mr V wasnt in a position to have made these transactions himself. This was confirmed to 
PayPal in our investigators view and I see no need to repeat those points here. 
Theres been no suggestion Mr V authorised these transactions himself. 
I note what PayPal has told us about these transactions being ineligible for their payment 
protection. However if they are unauthorised as I believe they were, they do fall under the 
protection offered by the PSRs. 
I am satisfied these transactions were unauthorised.
Putting things right
As these transactions were unauthorised, PayPal must refund £5,000 to Mr V, along with 8% 
simple interest a year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie, SCA 
to:
Refund £5,000 to Mr V; and
Add 8% simple interest to those transactions from the date they debited Mr Vs 
account until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman