DRN-4146577
The complaint
A company which Ill call 2 complains that Wise Payments Limited wouldnt refund a 
payment after they didnt receive the agreed service from the third-party payee.
The complaint is brought on 2s behalf by their director, Mr H.  
What happened
2 told us:
They made a payment for £400 to a third-party on the agreement they would provide 
marketing to generate business opportunities for the company. However this service 
wasnt delivered as agreed. 
They contacted Wise Payments Limited and asked it to recover their payment from 
the third-party who had acted fraudulently, but it said it couldnt do this. 
As Wise Payments Limited wouldnt recover their money, it should provide them with 
a refund instead. 
Wise Payments Limited told us:
Once 2 had transferred funds to the third-party bank, the funds were no longer within 
its control as this then passes to that bank instead.
It didnt have the ability to become involved in the dispute between 2 and the third-
party as it was only a money remittance service. It could only block any parties it 
became aware of that had acted fraudulently and had suggested 2 contact their bank 
for assistance. 
The obligation was with 2 as the sender of the payment to check the third-party was 
legitimate before they sent any money. This had been made clear throughout its 
website and when 2 had signed the customer agreement.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Wise Payments 
Limiteds terms and conditions were clear that it couldnt resolve disputes between the 
parties, and that it wouldnt be liable for any losses. She also thought that Wise Payments 
Limited had acted fairly by preventing further transactions to the third-party. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed reported the issue immediately so Wise Payments Limited 
should have recalled the payment which had been sent to a bank it hosted. So he asked for 
an ombudsman to review 2s complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
There isnt much more that I can add to what our investigator has already said. Wise 
Payments Limiteds terms and conditions make it clear that it is solely a money remittance 
service. This means providing a service of transferring funds without the creation of any 
payment accounts for the payer or payee, with the sole purpose of transferring that 
corresponding amount between the parties. In this case, Ive seen that 2 authorised a 
payment to a third-party and Wise Payments Limited executed this payment in line with the 
instruction. As the payment was authorised and it went to the correct payee, this means 
Wise Payments Limited doesnt have the same obligations it would have if the payment 
hadnt been authorised or if it had made an error and credited the wrong payee.   
I recognise 2 says that Wise Payments Limited should refund them the £400 payment as 
they didnt get the service they paid for. However, its not disputed by either party that 2 did 
receive the correct service from Wise Payments Limited. And I think Wise Payments Limited 
made it clear it didnt have any control over an authorised payment once it has been sent  
regardless of how quickly a dispute was raised. I also think its terms are clear that the payer 
is responsible for checking the payments details are correct and that it isnt able to intervene 
in any disputes between the parties. I think its also worth noting here, that although 2 says it 
didnt receive what they were expecting, the third-party could also dispute this as it appears 
a level of service was provided. As Wise Payments Limited is only involved in the physical 
movement of the funds, I dont think its reasonable to expect it to decide whether those 
funds were used for their designated purpose as expected or not. 
2 also says that Wise Payments Limited should contact the third-partys bank as it has 
hosted them. But I dont agree. I say this because Wise Payments Limited have the 
relationship with the payer and the payee  not their respective banks. Wise Payments 
Limited simply have bank details provided by each of the parties for them to credit as 
requested, no checks or interactions take place with banks except the debits or credits 
required as part of the transactions. So I think its reasonable that Wise Payments Limited 
suggested 2 approach their bank directly to see if they could assist further  particularly as 
the dispute appears to be about the quality of what was provided as a service. Ive also seen 
that Wise Payments Limited said it has noted 2s dispute about the payee to prevent further 
transactions taking place. So Im satisfied it has taken the appropriate steps here in case the 
payee was fraudulent, in line with its terms and conditions.
I recognise Mr H feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision as he 
wanted Wise Payments Limited to refund 2s payment. However, based on everything Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Wise Payments Limited carried out the transaction in line with 2s 
instruction and it was clear that if there were issues with the payment after it had been sent, 
that it wouldnt be able to help. So I wont be asking Wise Payments Limited to take any 
further action.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 2 to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman