DRN-4048907
The complaint
Mr E complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In February 2022 Mr E saw an advertisement on a well-known video sharing website 
regarding investing in cryptocurrency. He began communications with the company and was 
persuaded to invest, but unknown to him at the time he was dealing with fraudsters.
Mr E made three payments from his Revolut account, totalling £5,170, to two separate 
accounts that were controlled by the fraudsters. A breakdown of the payments is listed 
below;
10 February 2022 £1,000 (to beneficiary one)
11 February 2022 £1,960 (to beneficiary one)
24 February 2022 £2,210 (to beneficiary two)
Mr E became suspicious when he was given excuses for why he couldnt withdraw any 
funds and was asked to make a further payment, for broker fees, to enable a withdrawal to 
be made, which Mr E refused to pay.
Mr E raised the matter with Revolut, via an online chat function, in March 2022. Mr E initially 
told Revolut that he hadnt authorised the transactions. Revolut asked Mr E for further 
information, to enable it to look into things, but Mr E didnt respond. The complaint was then 
raised with Revolut on 29 July 2022, it again asked Mr E for further information and as it 
didnt receive a response it issued its final response, on 2 August 2022, not upholding the 
complaint.
Unhappy with Revoluts response Mr E, through his representatives, brought his complaint to 
this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. In summary, while he recognised Mr E had made the payments as a result of 
fraud, he didnt think Revolut could have been expected to prevent it. He said this because 
he didnt think Revolut had missed an opportunity to identify the payments were being made 
in relation to a scam.
Through his representatives, Mr E didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, he 
maintained the payments made were uncommon, as there had been no such transaction 
history throughout the entire history of the account.
Since issuing their view our Investigator has asked Revolut to provide details of the attempts 
it made to recover the money Mr E had lost from the beneficiary banks (the banks to which 
the payments were made). Revolut confirmed that it contacted both the beneficiary banks. It 
said it didnt receive a response from the bank to which the payment for £2,210 was made 
(beneficiary two in the table above). But it said the other bank (beneficiary one in the above 
table), responded to say it had already returned the payment for £1,960 to Mr Es Revolut 
account on 25 February 2022, and the payment for £1,000 had been returned to his Revolut 
account on 13 May 2022. Revolut has confirmed that these credits were applied to Mr Es 
account. This information has been shared with Mr E, through his representatives. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed over to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There appears to be some differences and contradictions in the version of events presented 
to Revolut and this service by Mr E. When Mr E first raised the matter with Revolut he told it 
he hadnt authorised the transactions, but later confirmed that he made the transfers. Mr E 
also told this service that the fraudsters advised him to open a Revolut account, but the 
evidence shows the Revolut account was opened by Mr E several months before the scam 
took place. It also isnt clear why Mr E has raised a claim to Revolut in July 2022, requesting 
a refund of payments that had already been returned to him.
Where there is conflicting evidence, as there is here, it is difficult to know precisely how 
events unfolded. So in such situations, I am required to reach my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words what I consider most likely given the available 
evidence.
In any event, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that these payments were made as the result 
of a scam and Im persuaded that Mr E authorised them. So the crux of the matter, and what 
I must decide, is whether I consider Revolut did enough to protect Mr E at the time he made 
the payments.
I can see that in his submissions to us Mr E has referred to the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. But the CRM Code doesnt apply in this 
case because Revolut arent signed up to it.
But even though the CRM code may not apply here, taking into account the law, regulatory 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry standards, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an electronic money institute 
(EMI), to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Revolut had an obligation to follow Mr Es instructions when he requested for these transfers 
to be made. But it has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect 
unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud.
But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Revolut shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. But on balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions in this case were so 
unusual or suspicious, that they ought to have alerted Revolut that Mr E was at risk of 
financial harm.
To identify a payment as being out of character requires a meaningful paymenthistory to deviate from. In this instance, Mr E had opened his account a few months earlier, 
but it had been dormant until the time of these disputed payments. So it would be more 
difficult for Revolut to have identified any individual payment as being out of character.
Ive considered if there was anything else about the transactions that ought to have caused 
Revolut cause for concern, but I dont find that there was. There is no suspicious pattern of 
spending and I dont consider the amounts Mr E was paying were such that they in and of 
themselves ought to have caused Revolut to be concerned. I also dont think there would 
have been an obvious link for Revolut to have picked up that Mr E was making a payment 
for the purpose of investing in cryptocurrency, which can sometimes, but of course not 
always be the indicator of a scam. I say that as the payments here werent being made to a 
cryptocurrency based platform, rather they were being paid to two other payment service 
providers.
I appreciate that overall, Mr E has lost over £5,000, which is a significant amount of money. 
But I dont think, in the circumstances of this case, the payments Mr E made would have 
appeared so remarkable, that I could fairly and reasonably have expected Revolut to have 
been concerned that Mr E may have been at risk. I dont think it could have foreseen that he 
was potentially falling victim to a scam, and not to an extent whereby it should have made 
additional checks on the payments Mr E was making.
Finally, Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr E reported the fraud. As Ive mentioned above, the first two payments Mr E made 
had already been returned to him prior to him raising his complaint with Revolut. Revolut did 
try and recover the other payment Mr E made, but it didnt receive a response from the 
beneficiary bank.
Where Mr E didnt initially respond to Revoluts request for further information, when he first 
raised the matter with it in March 2022, I can understand why Revolut didnt contact the 
beneficiary bank at that time. But even if it had of done, I dont think it would have made a 
difference. I say that as a number of weeks had already passed at that point, since Mr E had 
made the transfers. Its common in cases such as this that fraudsters remove money from 
the receiving account at the earliest opportunity. Fraudsters are alive to the fact that once 
payment service providers have a fraud reported to them, the funds are recalled. This means 
that the fraudsters tend to remove the money from the receiving account to prevent the loss 
of their ill-gotten gains.
Its very unfortunate Mr E has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I do have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have done 
more to prevent Mr E from losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman