DRN-3803219
The complaint
Your text here
What happened
F, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked its card and that 
the bank provided a poor service when F got in touch.
F is represented by its director, who Ill call Mr F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its my decision that HSBC has fairly resolved this complaint  Ill explain 
why.
HSBC has a specific set of responsibilities towards its customers  one of which involves it 
taking steps to prevent customers becoming victims of fraud. The banks terms say that it 
can stop payments to prevent fraud. HSBC says it applied the restriction because a payment 
was flagged as suspicious by its system. 
Its not for me to decide how HSBC should operate its fraud prevention process. I can only 
make a finding on whether it applied the process fairly. I cant say for certain why specific 
transactions were flagged as suspicious, but it seems to me that the card block was applied 
to protect Mr F from suspected fraudulent activity. So I cant conclude that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it applied the card block. 
Mr F says the bank shouldve contacted him or sent him a message. Having listened to the 
calls around the time, it seems to me that HSBC left Mr F a pre-recorded voicemail asking 
that he urgently contact the bank. So it seems the bank did in fact notify Mr F that it needed 
to speak with him.
Mr F says he was told by the fraud team that its systems were down and that his telephone 
call was maliciously disconnected. HSBC confirms that its notes indicate the call was 
disconnected, but there isnt enough for me to fairly conclude that this was done so 
maliciously. The bank acknowledges that Mr F wasnt given accurate information and paid 
him £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances, and within the region of what I wouldve asked HSBC to pay, had it not 
offered anything at all. So I wont be asking the bank to increase its compensation award.
Mr F points to losses he made as he was unable to purchase items to sell on for a profit. He 
says he was left unable to use his card for several days. However, HSBC confirms that the 
card block was lifted within a day, and I can see from the calls Ive listened to, that the fraud 
team eventually lifted the card block after speaking with Mr F the next day. So Im satisfied 
that Mr F wasnt left without use of his card for several days. And given that the card block 
was lifted the next day, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr Fs business purchases were 
unfairly delayed or prevented because of something HSBC did wrong. 
To conclude, HSBC has acknowledged and apologised for the error it made in the 
information it provided Mr F over the phone. The £200 compensation it paid Mr F to put 
things right is fair in my opinion. So I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more in relation 
to this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman