DRN-1541192
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint is that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax didnt uphold the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr V paid for day trips using his Halifax credit card. While he was able to travel to his 
destination the return ferry trip was cancelled. Mr V was provided with overnight 
accommodation at no cost but incurred additional costs for items needed for an 
overnight stay. There was an issue confirming the rescheduled ferry trip the following 
day and Mr V decided to book alternative travel. 
The relevant law here is the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015.s.75 says that, under specific circumstances where a consumer has 
paid for goods or services on credit, the provider of the credit can be held jointly 
responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those 
goods or services. s.75 is subject to financial limits and the costs of the goods or 
service need to be between £100 and £30,000.
Halifax said that Mr V didnt have valid claim because his purchase was made up of 
separate items each of which was less than £100. The legislation sets out that s.75 
doesnt apply to any claim to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100. In this case Mr V bought two return ferry tickets each costing £34 
and two recliner seats each costing £21.90. 
I understand Mr Vs comments about the costs being part of a single transaction, and 
I can see that he paid for the full amount as a single transaction. However, having 
looked at the booking confirmation, the items are listed separately and as the cost of 
each was less than the limit set I do not find that Halifax was wrong by saying the 
items fell below the financial limit. 
Even if I accepted that the total cost would be considered and therefore the 
transaction fell within the financial limits for a s.75 claim, I wouldnt expect the full 
cost to be refunded. Mr V had the benefit of the outward journey and was provided 
with accommodation when the return journey was cancelled. I understand there were 
issues with the revised return journey and so Mr V bought alternative transport, but 
this was his choice. I understand that Mr V was refunded the return portion of the 
travel through a chargeback claim (dated 24 September 2019) which I find was a 
reasonable resolution.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about that Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman