DRN-1398621
 
The complaint
Miss H says Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Savvy provided to Miss H in July 2019. The loan 
was for £500 and was to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £83.33. Savvy said Miss H 
didnt pay any instalments and the loan defaulted in October 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Hs complaint in part. He couldnt say that the loan shouldnt 
have been given. But he thought Savvy hadnt given Miss H a chance to address her arrears 
following the outcome of her complaint. So he thought it should remove the default notice 
and discuss a payment plan with Miss H. 
Savvy disagreed. It said it had already given Miss H considerable forbearance and shed had 
time to repay the arrears or discuss a repayment plan before it applied the default. Miss H 
said that Savvy should have made better affordability checks and these would have shown 
her other short-term loans and poor financial position. And so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Savvy asked Miss H for information about her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Miss H said her monthly income was £1,250. She said her monthly 
expenditure was £701.41. This left Miss H with £465.26 disposable income to meet her 
monthly repayments of £83.33. Savvy asked Miss H about her other short-term lending, but 
she didnt disclose any. Savvys credit checks found some minor arrears on Miss Hs credit 
card which she explained. 
Miss H said Savvy should have seen her other short-term loans and poor credit history. But 
shed told Savvy that she didnt have any other short-term loans. I cant see that Savvys 
credit checks found anything untoward that should have prompted further checks. Theres no 
requirement for Savvy to have checked Miss Hs credit file thoroughly. This was Miss Hs 
first loan, so Savvy didnt have a repayment history to consider. So I think these were 
sufficient and proportionate affordability checks for Miss Hs first loan from Savvy. 
Given the loan amount, what was apparent about Miss Hs circumstances at the time and 
her history with Savvy, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount 
of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Miss H provided or the information Savvy shouldve been aware of, which meant 
it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Miss H was saying. From the 
information Miss H provided, it looked as though she could afford her loan repayments. So I 
cant say that it was wrong for Savvy to have provided the loan. 
 
Miss H didnt make any instalment repayments. When a consumer raises concerns about 
financial difficulties, as I think Miss H did, we expect the business to respond positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that in its arrears notices Savvy offered to set up an affordable 
repayment plan and referred Miss H to debt management charities. I think that was fair and 
reasonable.Savvy said Miss H hadnt responded to its arrears notices. But I can see in its file that Miss H 
had replied to its letters. Initially Miss H didnt agree to make any repayments as she was 
awaiting the outcome of her complaint. But she did write to Savvy offering to make reduced 
repayments to clear the debt. I cant see that Savvy responded to this. I think Miss H had 
explained that she was willing to make repayment arrangements once her complaint had 
been investigated. But Savvy issued a default notice the same day it sent its response to 
Miss Hs complaint and before shed had a chance to bring her complaint to us. 
So I agree with the adjudicator that Savvy issued its default notice prematurely before Miss 
H had a reasonable chance to respond to its investigation of her complaint and to set up an 
arrangement to pay.   
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss H, I think Savvy should cancel the default notice on Miss Hs 
credit file and discuss with her an affordable repayment plan to clear her arrears.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint. I require Valour 
Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) to carry out the requirements set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman