DRN-2390257
The complaint
Mr L complains Sennocke International Insurance Services Limited (Sennocke) mis-sold a 
self-build site insurance policy to him. 
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr L was undertaking a self-build project and approached Sennocke in 2017 for insurance to 
cover him and anything that should go wrong with the project.  Mr L says that he was 
reassured by the marketing on the website and the information that was provided about the 
level of cover. Mr L contacted Sennocke and provided the information required in order for it 
to set up a policy for him. 
Mr L had cause to make two claims under the policy both of which were declined by the 
insurer. Mr L also had problems with using the services of the legal expenses insurance 
which came with the policy. 
Mr L made a complaint to Sennocke as he thought the policy had been mis-sold to him and 
hed been mis-led about the level of cover it provided. Mr L mentioned that he was of the 
impression this was an All Works policy and he would have full cover should anything go 
wrong, giving him peace of mind. This wasnt the case and he didnt feel hed received the 
quality of product, or service portrayed at the point of sale. Mr L was also unhappy that 
Sennocke hadnt provided any assistance to him in the claims he needed to make or 
informed him about the number of businesses that were involved in providing the policy 
cover. Mr L requested Sennocke reimburse all of the premium payments hed made, and it 
deal with his claims in order to honour the promises that were made to him at the time of 
sale.
Sennocke considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It 
explained Mr L renewed the policy several times and, on each occasion, was provided with 
the policy documentation which explained the cover provided. It said it reminded Mr L to 
read the documentation and contact it should he have any questions; however, Mr L did not 
do so.  Mr L asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but explained to Mr L she didnt think the policy 
had been mis-sold. She explained Sennocke didnt provide any advice to Mr L about the 
suitability of it for his needs and she was satisfied the information it did provide him with, 
about the policy, was sufficient. The investigator also said that she didnt think the 
information provided on the website was mis-leading. She concluded it provided general 
information about cover which could be arranged through various policies.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
When doing so he reiterated some of the points hed previously made. He also said he was 
given advice by Sennocke about the insurance policy and he called and emailed it directly 
many times before taking out the policy.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair in the circumstances, I need to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
There seems to be some confusion here whether the sale was advised or non-advised. But I 
dont think this makes a difference to my decision and Ill explain why below. For clarity, Ive 
assumed the sale was advised.  So in this instance, I need to be satisfied Sennocke made a 
recommendation which suited Mr Ls needs and it also provided him with information that 
was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
Sennocke has not been able to locate the calls Mr L had when he took out the policy. Mainly 
due to the time that has passed, and the fact Mr L called on several different numbers. Mr L 
has suggested Sennocke should be able to find the calls, but without knowing which 
numbers he may have used, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Sennocke to 
listen to every call the it had over a period of time simply to find the relevant ones. Ive 
therefore made my decision based on the information available to me. 
Mr L wanted insurance to cover the risks associated with undertaking a self-build project. 
Having reviewed the information he received, Im satisfied that he was provided with this 
cover and it was an appropriate recommendation.  All policies have exclusions and the site 
insurance policy is no different. The policy states exclusions which apply to all sections of 
the policy  and it is this that Mr L has referred to as the exhaustive list.  However, this isnt 
the correct understanding, as the policy then goes onto explain each section will have its 
own specific exclusions. Mr L says he wasnt given the correct information about this. 
However, I cant see any evidence which suggests that is the case. This explanation is also 
given in the policy summary that Mr L was provided with. 
In my opinion, the policy does provide the cover Mr L wanted, albeit not in the way he 
expected it. I understand in Mr Ls specific circumstances, claims have been declined under 
one section of the policy and the insurer is not paying out directly. The policy does however 
also provide cover to pursue legal action, so there is an avenue for Mr L to recoup his costs, 
albeit direct from the company concerned rather than from the insurer. I dont think this is 
unusual as insurance policies wont cover all eventualities and is one of the reasons why 
legal cover is often also available and recommended. 
Mr L was provided with policy documentation when the policy was taken out and at each 
policy extension.  The policy summary was also provided which explains the cover the policy 
provides and any significant or unusual terms. Having considered everything, I think 
Sennocke did provide Mr L with information about the policy, which was clear, fair and not 
mis-leading.  
Mr L has said he also relied on the information that was provided on the website before 
deciding to take out a policy with Sennocke. Ive looked at a snapshot of the website which 
Sennocke say was in place at the time, it has also provided me with updates that were made 
in 2018.  Sennocke provide a range of policies and can build a package of cover suited to a 
customers individual project. I dont think the information given on it contains any mis-
leading statements or specific advice, rather it is designed to give general information. Mr L says he was assured he would be provided with peace of mind.  There is a reference to this 
however it relates to having purchased a warranty policy and selling on the property  it 
references the buyer having peace of mind the structure is covered by a warranty policy.
Mr L has said he wasnt told by Sennocke about the number of businesses hed have to deal 
with when making a claim. I realise this can cause some confusion, especially as insurers 
themselves may employ agents and claims handlers to act on their behalf. However, I dont 
think this was information that Sennocke necessarily needed to provide to Mr L when he 
purchased the policy as it isnt something that is particularly unusual. The insurers of the 
different sections are listed in the policy information.
Ive considered Sennockes role in handling claims, and although is does say it can provide 
assistance in its terms of business, it itself isnt a designated claims handler. As such, it 
didnt have a responsibility to deal with Mr Ls claims for him. Because of this, although I 
realise Mr L had a certain expectation of the service, he thought he should receive, having 
reviewed everything, I dont think a compensation payment should be awarded here. 
I realise the claims process can cause upset and inconvenience, especially where claims are 
declined. However, having claims declined doesnt automatically mean a policy was mis-
sold.  Having considered everything, I dont think Sennocke mis-sold the policy to Mr L for 
the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Sennocke International 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman