DRN-3431320
The complaint
Mrs R complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mrs R under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that she electronically signed in March 2021. She says that the cars dashboard 
screen went blank nine days after the car was supplied to her so she returned the car to the 
dealer. She continued to have issues with the cars dashboard and returned the car to the 
dealer in May 2021 and twice in June 2021. She says that the dealer performed data 
downloads and found a fault with the wiring on the centre console, so removed the screen 
and console to replace the loom. She says that the issues have continued but the dealer 
says that its unable to replicate it. 
Mrs R complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the issues with the car but it said that 
the car was under warranty, it hadnt failed in its obligation to provide a car that was of 
satisfactory quality and wouldnt support rejection of the car. It recognised that Mrs R had 
experienced inconvenience, for which it apologised, and it offered her £150 in recognition of 
her loss of enjoyment of the car. Mrs R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and she recommended that Mercedes-
Benz Finance should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund Mrs Rs deposit of 
£1,643 and 80% of her monthly payments since April 2021 for the loss of use and impaired 
use of the car, all with interest; pay £300 for any distress or inconvenience thats been 
caused; and remove any information from Mrs Rs credit file in relation to the agreement.
Mrs R accepted those recommendations but Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt provided a 
substantive response to them so Ive been asked to issue a decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs R - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs R was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mrs R says that the issue with the cars dashboard screen started nine days after the 
car was supplied to her and shes provided photos showing the blank dashboard 
screen; 
she returned the car to the dealer in April 2021, May 2021 and twice in June 2021 for 
the issues with the screen to be rectified and says that the dealer performed data 
downloads and found a fault with the wiring on the centre console, so removed the 
screen and console to replace the loom, but she says that the issues have continued 
and that the dealer says that its unable to replicate it;
our investigator asked Mercedes-Benz Finance to arrange for the car to be inspected 
by an independent expert but it hasnt done so - it has provided pre-delivery 
information about the car but not the job-sheets from the dealer about the issues with 
the car;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there is an issue with the cars dashboard 
screen that first happened soon after the car was supplied to Mrs R and which 
repairs havent rectified  and I find that the issue with it causes the car not to have 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs R; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to allow Mrs R to reject the car and to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Mercedes-Benz Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mrs R  both at no cost to her. I find that it should also remove 
any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mrs R paid a deposit of £1,643 for the car. I find 
that it would be fair and reasobsle for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund to Mrs R the deposit 
that she paid for the car, with interest. 
Our investigator recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should refund 80% of the 
monthly payments made by Mrs R from April 2021 to the date of settlement for the impaired 
use caused by the car not being of satisfactory quality. I agree with that recommendation 
and that Mercedes-Benz Finance should also pay interest on the amounts to be refunded. I 
consider that its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to keep the other 20% of 
Mrs Rs monthly payments as payment for the use that shes had from the car.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs R. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay her £300 to compensate her 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mrs R  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs R the deposit that she paid for the car.3. Refund to Mrs R 80% of the monthly payments that shes made under the 
agreement since the beginning of April 2021 as compensation for her impaired 
use of the car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mrs Rs credit file.
6. Pay £300 to Mrs R to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mrs R a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman