DRN-3782536
The complaint
Ms P complains that after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy, Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) didnt ensure her car was repaired in a reasonable time 
and that the communication about the repairs was poor.  
What happened
Ms Ps car was recovered a week after being stolen in September 2021. It appeared to have 
little damage other than two areas where units had been removed and wires were left 
exposed. Through RSAs motor repair network, the vehicle was sent to garage N for repair. 
It isnt clear what happened over the next few months, and the garages  contact with Ms P 
was very poor, despite her chasing it for updates. But it appears that the garage wasnt sure 
about all the parts that needed to be ordered in order to do the repairs. 
Ms P complained to RSA. In its final response letter to her in January 2022 it accepted that 
the garage hadnt been proactive and that it should have updated Ms P. It said a part was 
still needed and that the vehicle would be going to a dealership garage (garage G) in 
February 2022 so it could identify the part. RSA offered Ms P £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience and said the garage would update her on progress. 
Ms P complained to us in March 2022 when the vehicle still wasnt repaired after six months. 
She said shed been told garage G didnt want to deal with it  although it was still with that 
garage. Meanwhile, Ms P had made a further complaint about garage N to RSA. She said 
although most of the parts had been on site for at least three months, the garage wouldnt 
tell her what work (if any) had been done or when the repairs were likely to be completed. 
RSA had chased the garage for a progress report in December 2021 and had been told that 
all the parts (except one) were on site. In January 2022 RSA asked it to update Ms P - but 
that didnt happen. So it chased the garage again for an update. Garage N wasnt able to 
provide one to RSA initially. Later, it said garage G had failed to identify the part that was 
needed. So RSA called garage G on 10 March 2022. It said the vehicle had been ready to 
collect by garage N for 13 days, as garage G wasnt prepared to touch it. When asked by 
RSA, garage N then confirmed that work other than the limited work it had hoped garage G 
would carry out still had to be done on the vehicle.
At this point, RSA assigned the case to its resolver team and it seems that an independent 
engineer was appointed to assess the vehicle on garage Gs premises. Ms P visited the site 
on 22 March 2022. She took photos and videos that showed the vehicle to be dirty and in 
very poor condition, with exposed cables, a missing windscreen, water ingress, parts strewn 
about inside it and stained seats. Garage Gs representative said it had arrived in that state  
and that garage G wouldnt touch it as it had been stripped, with parts torn out. And it said 
garage N had given no explanation of what the problems with the vehicle were. 
Ms P thought it should be written-off, given the deterioration in its condition, added to the 
original damage. But RSA told Ms P on 4 April 2022 that for that to happen, the repair costs 
would have to exceed £37,000.
Meanwhile, the independent engineer had inspected the car. He was also told by garage G 
that the car was in poor condition when it arrived on 25 February 2022. The engineer then 
contacted garage N, to be told that it had problems in ordering a part (having ordered the 
wrong one several times) so it wanted garage G to identify the correct part  as well as 
working on the windscreen, the headlining and recoding. The independent engineer thought 
the repair costs would be  around £6,000 (subject to other damage being found). He said 
garage N should put pressure on garage G to identify the correct part, but meanwhile it 
should take the car back and build it up. 
Three months later, on 20 June 2022, RSA told our investigator that the repairs were almost 
completed. But Ms P visited the garage the next day to find that the vehicle was still in a very 
poor state and hadnt been worked on recently. We updated RSA, and it then said the 
garages new expected completion date was 4 July 2022  although that might change. 
Ms P said she was shocked and appalled by the ongoing lack of progress (10 months after 
her vehicle first went to garage N) by the fact that the cars footwell was now full of water, 
and that her request for the garage to give her details / photos of any work that had been 
done (plus a log of all her calls to it and a list of faults with the car) was ignored. 
The investigator reported the current position to RSA and issued her view. She said RSA 
was ultimately responsible for garage Ns actions, and as there had been unreasonable 
delays, RSA should pay Ms N a further £350 for distress and inconvenience (£550 in total). 
The investigator said RSA should also ensure that the remaining work was completed in the 
next two weeks. RSA agreed to pay the extra compensation, but it said no-one could say 
how long the repairs would take. It said parts would have to be ordered for the extra work 
that needed to be done  and that the vehicle was currently with another firm (garage D) so 
the problems with the electrics could be assessed. 
The investigator said RSA should have been more proactive, as the evidence showed that 
work wasnt done on the car even after all the parts were received. She queried why the 
electrics werent assessed previously, when that was the initial problem with the vehicle  
especially as garage D had now said it might have to order parts. And she pointed out that 
the new damage was the result of the way the vehicle had been treated by garage N. She 
said any further delays would be dealt with as part of a new complaint. 
Ms P said she wasnt happy to accept the situation where the completion date for repairs 
remained open-ended after 10 months. So the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
From what Ive seen, it looks as though RSA hasnt done enough to ensure Ms Ps claim 
was dealt with efficiently and that garage N has been allowed to mismanage the repair 
process. Despite a request from Ms P for a timeline / list of the work done by garage N, it still 
hasnt been provided, so its unclear what the garage has actually done during the many 
months the car was in its possession. All the parts (except one) had arrived by December 
2021, according to the report given to RSA by the garage. Yet it looks as though no repairs 
were done for the next few months  and the vehicle was allowed to deteriorate. 
RSA blames garage Gs processes for part of the delay  and its lack of help in identifying 
one of the parts  as well as the fact that Ms P had to get a V5 registration document from 
the DVLA. But I think by far the major part of the ongoing delay was due to a lack of action 
on garage Ns part, plus the failure of RSA to establish what was going on at the garage and 
move things along - or to have the car taken elsewhere. The initial damage seems to have been modest, and the photos taken by Ms P show that the 
car was in a far worse state in June 2022 than it was in when recovered by the police in 
September 2021. Garage G says it was like that in February 2022, which is why it decided 
not to assist. It isnt clear why garage N removed the windscreen  or why, after that was 
done, the car was left outside. But the ingress of water has caused further damage. 
I can see why Ms P is so upset by what has happened to the car  and by the fact that the 
repair process has been allowed to drag for so long. I think its very surprising that the car 
was recently referred to a different garage for the electrics to be assessed and repaired, 
when it appears that was the initial problem with the car. And the new damage (caused by 
garage Ns actions) has only added to the repair time. 
Although Ms Ps been in hire since September 2021, the hire car doesnt give her the space 
that suits her familys needs. So in my opinion, Ms P has faced a significant amount of 
ongoing inconvenience from that alone. Shes also had to struggle to get any answers from 
garage N, causing her further inconvenience and upset. Although I can see that RSA has 
tried to update Ms P (and that it also asked the garage to do so) I think the updates shes 
had have been inadequate. And shes been given inaccurate information about expected 
repair completion dates (as have we).
Given the length of time the process has taken, the lack of any proper communication with 
Ms P, and the extra damage caused to the car, I think it would be reasonable for RSA to pay 
Ms P the cars pre-incident market value, so she can move on. When the car is finally 
repaired, RSA can sell it and recoup its outlay. I dont think its reasonable to expect Ms P to 
have to continue to face ongoing repairs with an open-ended completion date whilst she 
continues to drive a smaller car than she should be driving.
I also think RSA should pay Ms P £750 in total to reflect the level of distress and 
inconvenience shes faced since September 2021. That includes the impact on her of the 
very poor contact from the garage, the time she spent chasing the garage for updates, the 
false promises made to her about calls back and repair completion dates, and the great 
upset of seeing her car deteriorate significantly whilst under garage Ns control.  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional decision within two weeks. Ms P accepted 
it. On the day the date for a response expired, RSA asked for a two-week extension to reply. 
It said the case was complex and that We should be in a position to confirm how we will 
deal going forward in the next two weeks.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the time that has passed whilst Ms P has waited for progress on the claim  - let alone 
a date for the finalisation of the repairs - I dont think its reasonable or fair to her to allow 
RSA yet more time. The wording of the request for an extension appears to show that 
theres still no definite plan in place but that there should be progress soon. I dont think 
thats sufficient at this point to justify a further delay. 
The investigator corresponded with RSA in July 2022 (following the issue of her view 
upholding the complaint). I think she made it clear that the delays - and the ongoing lack of a 
date for the completion of  repairs  werent acceptable and that RSA hadnt been proactive. 
I think it would have been reasonable for RSA to have taken immediate steps at that point to 
reassess the claims lack of progress and take control of the situation, in order to limit further 
distress and inconvenience to Ms P. But that doesnt appear to have happened.As RSA hasnt provided any information for me to consider that might have led to a change 
in outcome, I dont intend to depart from my provisional findings - the reasons for which are 
set out above.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms P the cars pre-accident market value within 14 days of her accepting this 
decision (if theres a valuation dispute, it should provide an interim payment)
Pay Ms P £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman