DRN-2271724
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs S opened a store card account in a shop in 1994. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ss card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included some life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she said Mrs S 
wasnt working when she took out the PPI. So she wouldnt have been able to claim for the 
main benefits of the policy. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S. But it had a responsibility to give her enough 
information to decide whether the cover was right for her.
Mrs S has told us that she wasnt working when she opened the store card account. AXA 
has pointed out that in the Employment Details section of Mrs Ss store card application 
form, a box was ticked to indicate that Mrs S was in full-time employment. And she indicated 
that shed been with her current employer for two months. 
But Mrs S says the employment details given on the form were for her husband. She says 
shes never worked for that employer. And shes reiterated that she wasnt working when 
she opened the account. 
I can see that on the form theres a space to insert details of the applicants partners 
occupation. Mrs S filled this in. Theres then a box to insert Your employers name and 
address or that of your partners employer if you have no taxable income of your own. 
The employer details which Mrs S filled in are consistent with the occupation that she 
specified as her husbands. Im satisfied, on balance, that they related to Mrs Ss husband, 
and not to Mrs S. And I think the reason for this was that Mrs S herself was, as she says, not 
working at the time.
Its true that the form said Are you in regular employment? and the Full Time box was 
ticked. But given that I accept that the employment details given on the form were for 
Mrs Ss husband, I think its likely that the tick against full time also related to Mrs Ss 
husband, and not to Mrs S.
I accept that Mrs S wasnt working when she took out the store card and PPI. So Im 
satisfied that she wouldnt have been able to benefit from the accident, sickness or 
unemployment cover it offered. And I dont think Mrs S would have taken out the policy if 
shed known this.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis- 
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs S 
would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs S paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point when Mrs S would have owed AXA something on her store card.
D. AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs S that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax AXA has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman