DRN-4261324
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information about his loan 
repayment date.
What happened
Mr L asked HSBC to change his loan repayment date to the first of the month in March 2023. 
He says he then asked when the next payment would be taken and says HSBC told him it 
would be in the month after next (May 2023). Mr L says the payment was taken in April 2023 
which caused him distress and inconvenience. He says HSBC has harassed him since the 
complaint and would like the monthly repayment written off or compensation for an 
equivalent amount.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake and says it refunded the payment of £459 when it was 
taken. It says it has paid £200 compensation for the mistake and has apologised for what 
took place. It also says it will not record the missed payment on Mr Ls credit file but is 
obliged to ask him to repay it.
Mr L brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt think the compensation went far 
enough. The investigator recommended £300 compensation but thought HSBC was entitled 
to ask Mr L to repay the missed payment.
HSBC accepts that view.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and says he is still being harassed by HSBC. He would like an 
apology and the monthly repayment written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am satisfied that HSBC has fairly agreed to pay a total of £300 
compensation and has fairly apologised for its mistake.
There is no dispute here that Mr L was given incorrect information about the next loan 
payment date. I have no doubt he was caused distress and inconvenience when he realised 
that HSBC had taken the loan payment in April 2023 and not May 2023 as it said it would. 
But I can see that HSBC fairly apologised for its mistake and I am not sure why Mr L 
suggests he didnt receive that apology as its clearly contained in the final response letter. I 
can also see that HSBC refunded the payment immediately and I have not seen any 
evidence of financial loss Mr L incurred as a result of the mistake. I am satisfied that Mr L 
was responsible for the payment regardless of when it was due and if he had been given the 
correct information, then the payment would have been due in April not May 2023.
The only issue for me to consider is the compensation amount. I have made clear that I think 
Mr L is responsible for the monthly repayments in line with the loan terms and conditions and 
so it would be unfair to direct HSBC write off one months repayment. I dont think Mr L 
suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place, and the money was refunded 
shortly after being deducted. I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly by contacting Mr L and 
asking him about the repayment. 
Overall, I agree with the investigator that HSBC should pay a further £100 compensation 
making a total of £300 which is fair and reasonable. I find such an award in line with the 
amount and type of awards we would order in circumstances such as these. And that 
compensation amount fairly reflects the level and impact of HSBCs mistake. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay a further £100 compensation making a total of £300 if it has not already 
been paid. I can see that the previous award has been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Mr L £100 compensation if not already paid. Mr Ls acceptance of this decision would be in 
full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman