DRN-2419834
The complaint
I partially uphold Mr Zs complaint, and direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED 
to pay him £100 compensation.
What happened
In 2017, a bank gave information to TransUnion saying that Mr Z and his sibling were the 
same person. TransUnion reported this on Mr Zs file as an alias, meaning that his siblings 
credit report was effectively merged with his own.
Mr Z reported this to TransUnion on 25 December 2019. On 27 December 2019, TransUnion 
confirmed theyd arranged to have the alias removed. On 31 December 2019, TransUnion 
confirmed the file had been corrected and apologised for what had happened.
Mr Z says that, while he didnt actually apply for any credit while the alias was on his file, he 
had been intending to apply for a mortgage and had held off until the alias was removed. He 
asked for compensation for his losses from the delay, and for the distress caused by the 
breach of privacy.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Since 
Mr Z hadnt applied for credit, they couldnt see hed suffered any financial losses. They felt 
TransUnion had acted fairly by apologising and removing the alias in just six days.
Mr Z didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr Z and TransUnion a provisional decision on 25 November 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
In a case like this, my first concern is whether Mr Z suffered any significant financial losses  
for instance, if he got declined for credit because of the mistaken alias.
Mr Z says he didnt apply for any credit before the alias was removed. And it was removed 
only six days after he reported it, which I dont think constitutes any significant delay. So 
I cant see that he suffered any significant financial losses here. And to explain, we generally 
only award compensation for losses that someone actually suffered  and not for losses that 
someone could have suffered, but didnt.
Ive also thought about any potential delay TransUnion might have caused in fixing Mr Zs 
file. But again, it looks like they fixed it in just six days here, which seems relatively prompt. 
I also note that those six days were over the winter holiday period  so lending applications 
were unlikely to get processed over those days in any case.
Mr Z has now explained that he was going to apply for a mortgage in 2018, but was told he 
could not due to his siblings information mistakenly being on his file. But from what I can 
see, he didnt report the alias to TransUnion until 25 December 2019. So if there was a delay 
between 2018 and 2019, it seems that was due to Mr Z not reporting the matter. I also note 
that, at present, I dont have any evidence to show that Mr Z ever applied for such a 
mortgage. Of course, if Mr Z can provide evidence to show he tried applying for mortgages 
in 2018 and was told he couldnt due to the alias, and that he reported the matter to 
TransUnion before December 2019, then Im happy to reconsider this point.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that TransUnion need to compensate Mr Z for 
any significant financial losses.
However, I can see that Mr Z has been caused unfair stress and upset by the mistaken alias. 
We cant undo the distress thats been caused, but we often tell businesses to pay 
compensation, to acknowledge they got something wrong and the impact it had. 
In terms of the amount of compensation, I should point out that were not here to fine or 
punish businesses. Further, while TransUnion had to take reasonable steps to ensure they 
displayed correct information, they were also reliant on the information their data suppliers 
gave them. And here, it looks like they apologised and acted promptly to fix the error.
So with everything in mind, I think TransUnion should pay Mr Z £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
In response, both parties accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides accepted the provisional decision, and did not provide any new evidence or 
arguments. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  
that TransUnion should pay Mr Z £100 for the trouble and upset they caused him.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Zs complaint, and direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED 
to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman