The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC passed his details onto one of its subsidiaries 
without his permission or consent. Hed applied for a savings account and asked for no 
direct marketing. 
What happened
Mr P opened a savings account with Barclays in 2016 and recalls choosing to opt-out of 
receiving any direct marketing communications. But hes since received some mailing from a 
subsidiary of Barclays which he didnt agree to be sent.
Barclays said it didnt have a record of Mr P asking not to receive marketing when he applied 
for his savings account. It said there were a number of ways that customers could let it know 
about their marketing preferences and Mr P had now been opted out of receiving these 
communications.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought Barclays had acted fairly. He 
said the information from Barclays didnt show that Mr P had opted out of any marketing 
communication methods. He also said the terms and conditions set out that Barclays may 
share information with trusted third parties to provide its products and services, and to meet 
legal and regulatory obligations. 
But Mr P said that hed signed a form and ticked a No Marketing box when he opened his 
account. He said that at no point had he given his permission for Barclays to pass on his 
details to its subsidiary  he has three examples of marketing materials hes been sent since 
he opened the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling about his personal information has been passed 
on without his permission, particularly as he recalls choosing not to receive such marketing 
communications when he applied to open his account.
I've considered Mr P's signed declaration from when he opened the account in the branch, 
along with his account records. 
And this information doesnt show any particular preferences selected for receiving 
marketing  the declaration doesnt have an option to select to opt-out of any marketing.
DRN-1145383I accept that Mr P recalls selecting a tick box on a form not to receive such marketing, but 
this doesn't appear to be this declaration form. There is of course the possibility that Mr P 
expressed his wishes in this regard when he applied in the branch, and this wasnt recorded 
when his account was set up. But I cant say with any certainty that this is what happened, 
and Barclayss records for Mr Ps account dont indicate that he didnt want to receive them 
which is why certain mailings have been sent to him.
Barclays has now updated Mr Ps records to show that he has chosen not to receive any 
marketing communication from either Barclays or its subsidiary, and I think thats a fair 
resolution to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman