DRN-4289304
The complaint
Mr K complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to correctly act on his 
instructions when he withdrew some of his pension savings in February 2023. 
What happened
Mr K holds pension savings with Standard Life. In the past he had taken withdrawals from 
the uncrystallised part of his pension savings, so those withdrawals hadnt been liable for 
any income tax deductions. In February 2023 Mr K instructed Standard Life to make a 
withdrawal from the crystalised part of his pension savings.
At the time he made his withdrawal request Mr K was living, temporarily, overseas. He says 
that presented some communication difficulties, particularly during the telephone call in 
which he gave his withdrawal instruction to Standard Life. I have listened to that call and will 
discuss what happened later in this decision.
Mr K asked Standard Life to withdraw £30,000 from his pension savings. Standard Life 
made Mr K aware that his withdrawal would be liable to income tax. Mr K says that he 
reasonably expected that his withdrawal would result in a net payment to him of the 
requested £30,000, with the gross withdrawal being increased to reflect the income tax that 
was payable. Standard Life says that it is normal practice for withdrawal requests to be 
made gross, and the net payment to be reduced to reflect any income tax it was required to 
deduct.
Standard Life confirmed Mr Ks request in writing  it sent a letter to the UK address that it 
held for him. But as he was overseas, Mr K didnt immediately receive that confirmation. The 
letter set out that the amount Mr K had requested to withdraw would be reduced by the 
deduction of income tax.
Mr K received payment for his pension withdrawal in March 2023. He received 
approximately £18,225, reflecting the income tax that Standard Life needed to deduct. Mr K 
immediately complained to Standard Life and said that he needed a net payment of £30,000. 
So Standard Life processed a further withdrawal for Mr K of £21,409, that provided a net 
payment to Mr K of an additional £11,774.
Mr K says that Standard Life should have been aware from the outset that he needed to 
receive £30,000 after the deduction of tax. He doesnt accept that Standard Life says it 
couldnt accurately calculate the tax that would be deducted as he says that it exactly the 
calculation that Standard Life successfully performed when it made the second payment. 
And he says it was unreasonable that he needed to undertake a second lengthy verification 
call before the additional withdrawal could be processed
Standard Life didnt agree with Mr Ks complaint so he brought it to us. It has been assessed 
by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Standard Life had done anything wrong. He 
thought that Standard Life had processed the withdrawal in line with normal industry 
practice, and that it had provided the necessary information about the withdrawal to Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr K and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
This was the first taxable withdrawal that Mr K had taken from his pension savings. So it isnt 
entirely surprising that he might not have been familiar with how the income tax that needed 
to be deducted would be handled. From the complaint he has made it seems clear that there 
was a breakdown in communication between Standard Life and Mr K at the time the 
withdrawal instruction was given. But, as I will now go on to explain, Im sorry to tell Mr K that 
I dont think that breakdown means that Standard Life did something wrong.
In my experience, the way that Standard Life has dealt with this withdrawal request is 
entirely in line with normal industry practice. In similar cases that I have seen, a consumer 
would generally request that a specified amount is withdrawn from their pension savings. 
That would be the amount that they would expect their pension savings to reduced by (or in 
other words the gross payment amount). And then the pension provider would, if 
appropriate, be required to deduct income tax from the payment before providing the income 
to the consumer (the net payment).
I accept that might be problematic for some consumers who are looking to receive a set 
amount from their pension withdrawal. But, in the case of one-off withdrawals such as that 
requested by Mr K, it can be difficult at the outset for the pension provider to immediately 
calculate the net payment. For an initial payment the pension provider might not have yet 
received the taxable allowance information from HMRC that is required to process the 
payment  that sometimes is only provided when the payment is input, or in fact the payment 
might be processed on the basis of an emergency default tax code if further information is 
not available.
The availability of tax allowance information would explain why Standard Life was able to 
accurately determine the value of the second withdrawal that was needed to allow Mr K to 
receive the entire net amount of £30,000 that he required. But having the information at that 
time doesnt mean that it was available earlier, at the time of the first payment. But, as I will 
continue to explain, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to expect Standard Life to 
have made use of any tax allowance information even if it had been available at the outset.Ive listened carefully to the call that Mr K had with Standard Life when he made his 
withdrawal request. 
Firstly, as Mr K has said, that call took place whilst he was overseas. And it is clear that 
there is a short delay between Standard Life providing him with information, or asking a 
question, and his response. But, at no time does it seem that Mr K was having any 
difficulties hearing or understanding what Standard Life said. So I am satisfied that him being 
overseas did not impact the sharing of information on that call in any material way.
It is also clear that Mr K was very frustrated in the length of time the call took, and in fact that 
the call needed to take place at all. Mr K explained on the call that he had received a similar 
call a month or two earlier when hed taken a previous withdrawal from his pension savings. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Standard Life to ask Mr K to repeat that call. It has a 
process, agreed with its regulator, that ensures consumers making these sorts of decisions, 
that are generally irreversible, are fully informed. It is entirely possible that a consumers 
circumstances might have changed (in ways that are not immediately apparent) between 
withdrawal requests. And I think similar comments would apply when Mr K took the 
additional income payment to replace the funds hed lost to income tax in March 2023. I think 
it was also reasonable for Standard Life to repeat its normal withdrawal process at that time 
too.
On the call Mr K clearly stated that he wanted to withdraw £30,000. I dont think Mr K was 
sufficiently specific in that request for Standard Life to understand that he actually wanted to 
withdraw whatever amount was necessary in order that he would receive a net payment of 
£30,000. I have thought about whether that was something that Standard Life should have 
explored further with Mr K. But, bearing in mind what I said earlier about normal industry 
practice, I dont think Standard Life had any reason to think that Mr Ks request was different 
to what it would normally expect.
When it accepted Mr Ks withdrawal instruction Standard Life confirmed the request in 
writing. That letter clearly stated that the amount of Mr Ks request was before any tax had 
been deducted. But the letter was sent to the UK address that Standard Life held for Mr K, 
and since he was overseas, he wasnt able to consider the letter before the withdrawal was 
completed. Had he done so, he might have been able to correct the withdrawal amount a 
little sooner.
I dont think it is unreasonable for Standard Life to provide important information such as this 
by post. Generally that would reduce the chances that a withdrawal had been requested 
fraudulently, or that an error had been made in its input. And I havent seen anything that 
makes me think Mr K had provided Standard Life with an alternative postal address for any 
correspondence it needed to send. I accept that Standard Life would have known that Mr K 
was overseas at that time. But that doesnt mean Standard Life should have been aware that 
Mr K didnt have any arrangements in place for the forwarding, or review, of any postal 
correspondence he received.
I understand Mr Ks disappointment that he misunderstood how Standard Life would deal 
with his withdrawal request. This was the first request he had made to withdraw taxable 
pension savings so the process might have been unfamiliar to him. But I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Standard Life acted incorrectly in the way it dealt with the 
request, or that it should have taken further steps to clarify what Mr K wanted to happen. So 
I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman