DRN-4145935
The complaint
Mr F complaints that Inclusive Finance Limited trading as Creditspring (Creditspring) lent to 
him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F applied to be a member of Creditspring in July 2021. He passed Creditsprings checks.
Membership then included access to two loan advances of £500 in a year for a membership
fee of £10 per month for 12 months. Interest on the loans was zero. Mr F drew the first loan
of £500 on 7 August 2021. Four payments of £83.33 (plus the membership fee of £10) were
made, but payments stopped after December 2021. In March 2022, Creditspring were
advised Mr F was on a debt management plan. Reduced payments of £1.87 were agreed in
line with the DMP. These were paid up to July 2022 and the loan was paid off in September
2022.
Mr F complained. He said he shouldnt have been given the agreement in the first place. He
said Creditspring didnt do the necessary checks and didnt ask to see bank statements. He
said he had many other debts and was on a DMP at the time. He now has a default on his
credit file. He said the loan should be written off.
Creditspring said Mr F passed all their credit checks. At the time of his application, Mr F said
he had income of £1,500 per month, with expenses of £773 - rent (£275); utilities (£149.50);
food (£149.50); Transport (£49.50) and debt repayments (£149.50). Based on those figures,
Mr F had disposable income of £727 per month. He had no CCJs, IVAs, or bankruptcies
reported on his credit file. It showed unsecured debts of £1,729. Creditspring didnt uphold
Mr Fs complaint and said theyd lent to him responsibly.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Creditspring did not do sufficient
checks. She thought Mr F was reliant on credit - as he had 11 short term credit agreements
with a 94% utilisation  so he wasnt managing his finances very well. She said Creditspring
should refund all membership fees paid by Mr F and remove any negative information from
his credit file. (continued)
Creditspring didnt agree. They said theyd verified Mr Fs income at the credit reference
agencies. And because the other debt of £1,729 over 11 agreements was low, it wasnt
surprising that utilisation was high. And other debt of £1,729 was manageable given Mr Fs
finances. Creditspring said the credit checks showed Mr Fs last debt repayment to be £383
 so they took that into account when making their lending decision.
Creditspring said they had completed sufficient and proportionate checks and asked that an
ombudsman look at Mr Fs complaint.
I made a provisional decision which said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether
Creditspring acted in line within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules on
creditworthiness assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that
a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the
risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of
not being able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew
about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
o the lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
o the greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
o the longer the term of the loans.
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer
checks can be made.
Ive considered Mr Fs complaint in the light of this guidance. And its fair to say that the loan
of £500 was low value  so checks could be less than for larger loans.
I can see Mr F said he had income of £1500 per month. And Creditspring verified that by
looking at his credit file at credit reference agencies. His outgoings were £773  so he had
£727 left over to pay Creditspring. His other debts were £1,729 over 11 agreements  but
Creditspring did look at this and adjusted his payments to £383 per month, which was what
they saw evidenced at the credit refence agencies. But that still left disposable income of
£493 per month. So  it looked to Creditspring that he could afford the payments(£93.33).
So, I agree  the payments looked to be reasonably affordable as against Mr Fs income
and outgoings.
I can also see that there werent any adverse markers on Mr Fs credit file  such as CCJs,
bankruptcies or IVAs at the time. If there had been, then Creditspring should have taken
those into account.
Mr F has said that he was on a DMP at the time of his application - but I can see his credit
file doesnt show that. Creditspring told us the DMP came later  in March 2022. So  I cant
expect Creditspring to have been aware of that, as it was in the future.
Mr F has said Creditspring didnt check his bank statements. But these arent a requirement
of the credit checks that Creditspring had to do. So  they didnt need to ask for them. We
did ask Mr F for his bank statements but unfortunately, he couldnt provide them.
In summary, I think Creditspring did carry out the necessary and proportionate checks when
deciding to offer membership to Mr F, and this provisional decision is that they dont need to
do anything.But this is a provisional decision and we welcome any additional comments that Mr F or
Creditspring nay have. In particular, if Mr F can provide a copy of his credit file which shows
he had other, larger debts; and / or he was on a DMP at the time of the application in July
2021  then I will consider this in making a final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Mr F nor Creditspring made any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr F nor Creditspring made any comments, my final decision is unchanged from 
the provisional decision. So  Creditspring do not have to do anything.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman