DRN-4176753
The complaint
Mr T says Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited (Evelyn), trading as 
Tilney Investment Management Services Limited (Tilney), amongst other matters, required 
him to switch the provider of his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which meant he 
incurred duplicate fees and missed pension payments. He says Evelyns poor handling has 
caused him considerable trouble and upset and this has had an impact on his health and 
wellbeing.
What happened
In 2020, Mr T decided to stop using the services of an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). 
He says his particular adviser lost his licence to operate due to historical failings. He says 
the IFA firm indicated it was no longer necessary to have advice since his pension was in 
drawdown and he was unlikely ever to make further investments.
At the time Mr T had a SIPP with AJ Bell, but it didnt allow for customers without advisers. 
So he switched to a BNY Mellon Pershing (Pershing) SIPP which had a business 
arrangement with his discretionary investment manager, Tilney.
On 7 October 2021, an agent from Tilney visited Mr T to inform him about an upcoming 
merger with another business (which ultimately became Evelyn). One consequence of this 
was that it would be terminating its arrangement with Pershing. Mr T doesnt recall the 
connection being made between the merger and the requirement for him to appoint an 
alternative SIPP provider.
Mr T received a follow-up email on 8 October 2021. Evelyns investment manager 
summarised the position in the following terms:
Great to see you yesterday and further to our conversation, I said that I would provide you 
with a list of three pension providers who: 1) offer non-advised SIPPs and also 2) have 
terms of business in place with Tilney Smith and Williamson. The reason we provide a list of 
three is to underline the point that we are in no way offering any advice in regards to the 
transfer of your pension. I know that the non-advised approach is very much the route that 
you want to take, but given how regulated pensions are, it is important that I stress this 
point...
Mr T says there was no hint of a timeline provided by Evelyn during his meeting or in its 
subsequent email about moving from his Pershing SIPP. But that as he was told hed need 
to find another provider it was logical he had to deal with the matter straight-away. For 
context he notes it was only the third occasion hed received a visit at his home from the 
investment management firm, so its reasonable to deduce it was an important matter.
On 19 October 2021, Mr T emailed Evelyn to clarify some points following the meeting 
earlier the same month. This covered a range of matters including why the decision had 
been made to move away from Pershing, the fees hed incur and about prospective SIPP 
providers.
Evelyn responded to his questions on 4 November 2021 and in doing so noted:
this is quite a list! But it is also the reason clients have a financial adviser (which I am not) 
as well as an investment manager. All these questions would be directed to them and hence 
their annual fees on top of the investment side.
After a few days Mr T selected Dentons to be his SIPP provider. He says he notified 
Evelyns and started the application process. On 19 November 2021 Dentons made a 
request for information about his pension from Pershing.
On 2 March 2022, Evelyn emailed Mr T confirming the termination of their business 
partnership from Pershing was being delayed  so there was no rush to transfer to a new 
SIPP provider. It stressed Pershing charges were low and that he could take advantage of 
this for a little longer.
Mr T responded the same day. He was surprised by the content of Evelyns message since 
he felt hed been given an ultimatum by it in October 2021 to change his SIPP provider. He 
noted hed already put in place an arrangement with Dentons. It followed that he wanted the 
transaction to proceed. He expressed his concern and frustration about the situation.
Evelyn said it hadnt been aware Mr T had set-up a new SIPP with Dentons until this point. It 
provided him with the forms necessary for the switch to take place on 9 March 2022. One of 
these was the Pershing Transfer Out Request form, but on 14 March 2022 he noted hed 
already completed this on-line through Dentons website in November 2021. He also 
confirmed hed paid a SIPP establishment fee of £420 on 22 November 2021. Mr T 
completed the remaining forms he was sent by Evelyn on 17 March 2022.
Dentons requested confirmation for the age 75 benefit crystallisation event (BCE) check on 
18 March 2022. But, between 20 March 2022 and 25 May 2022, the custodian of certain 
assets was changed from Pershing to Tilneys new merger partner. Evelyn has confirmed 
this meant the switch of his SIPP was put on hold in that period.
The SIPP investment management agreement was signed by Mr T on 20 March 2022 and 
signed by Dentons on 25 May 2022. Between 1 June 2022 and 27 June 2022, Evelyn 
received forms from Dentons to set up an account. But in this period Evelyn was in the 
process of assigning it to the appropriate personnel.
Mr T says these events demonstrate Evelyns decision to tell clients to change providers in 
October 2021 was premature.
The new account with Dentons was set up on 1 July 2022 and on 21 July 2022, Dentons 
requested the transfer of the funds from Pershing and subsequently Pershing emailed 
Evelyn to confirm acceptance on the same date.
Pershing requested confirmation of new account details from Dentons to transfer the funds 
on 16 August 2022. This was provided to them on 18 August 2022 but on the same date, 
Evelyn confirmed his Deutsch Bank (DB) fund had been suspended and therefore couldnt 
be transferred. On 19 August 2022, Mr T agreed for the transfer to proceed without the DB 
fund.
On 7 September 2022, Pershing asked for acceptance from Evelyn for the funds that could 
be transferred. This was provided to Pershing on 8 September 2022 and again on 26 
September 2022, when re-registration details were also requested by Evelyn from Pershing.Mr T was unhappy with what happened with his switch of SIPP providers and he raised a 
complaint with Evelyn. This covered several concerns including that hed been forced to 
move SIPP providers resulting in higher fees; that this process had been poorly handled; 
that the payment of his pension income had been interrupted on several occasions; and 
about his illiquid DB fund.
Evelyn responded to Mr Ts complaint on 16 September 2022. It didnt uphold his case and 
concluded the issue with his DB fund had been raised too late.
On 10 October 2022, Mr T referred his complaint to this Service. He said Evelyns final 
response criticised his accuracy of facts, motives, honesty and integrity. He told us what he 
wanted to resolve his complaint:
IMMEDIATELY transfer the SIPP Drawdown Administration from Tilney (now Evelyn) to 
Dentons, as already started, a year ago.
Ensure that I do not have to pay any EXIT Fees; TRANSFER fees; ANO fees from Tilney 
(now Evelyn) or Pershing, to complete the transfer. I repeat, it was the Board of Tilney who 
unilaterally instigated this change. I had no say in the matter.
Reimburse me personally for ALL unnecessary duplicated Fees of any company during the 
period November 2021 to the date of a satisfactory completion of the transfer. Dentons fees 
currently amount to £1,084.80, with a further approx £490.00 due shortly.
Reimburse me personally for the value of the untradeable Deutche Bank investment, 
incorrectly included within my portfolio since 2009 -  £126.64.
In view of the extent of extensive business incompetence shown during this failed process, 
along with my significant health issues, I ask the Financial Ombudsman Service to award me 
a more appropriate level and significant level of compensation.
Mr T also requested payment of his drawdown payments for September and October 2022. 
He said the payments were delayed without providing him with any notification. Later he told 
this Service he wouldnt settle his dispute for anything less than £50,000, although he didnt 
substantiate a clear basis for the claim.
An Investigator considered Mr Ts case and upheld it, but not to the extent he wanted. He 
found the complaint point about his DB fund had been brought too late for us to consider. He 
concluded that aspects of his complaint werent the responsibility of Evelyn, for example 
those related to the operation and administration of his SIPP, such as making pension 
payments to him.
The Investigator did find Evelyn had been responsible for some of the delays experienced by 
Mr T in switching SIPP providers. But he concluded that as the switch involved an in-specie 
transfer, his funds hadnt been out of the market, so thered been no financial loss. He also 
thought the fees charged to establish a new SIPP were always going to be required. And 
that it wasnt responsible for any duplicate fees paid to Dentons and Pershing. He awarded 
him £350 for the trouble and upset caused by Evelyn.
Mr T rejected the Investigators findings and conclusions. Essentially, he maintained that the 
concerns hed raised were all the result of Evelyns handling.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mr Ts complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. Both parties have provided 
submissions in response, essentially disagreeing with aspects of my initial findings and 
conclusions. Ive considered their respective arguments carefully in arriving at this final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
My first observation is about the scope of this decision. Mr Ts complaint has evolved during 
its journey with Evelyn and subsequently this Service. The Investigator set out in a letter to 
him of 19 December 2022 what we would consider. He also informed Mr T that we wouldnt 
be looking into new points hed raised subsequent to bringing his initial complaint to this 
Service. Thats because Evelyn should be given an opportunity to respond prior to any 
involvement from us. Ive followed the same parameters.
Mr Ts DB fund investment
Next, Im going to deal with the jurisdiction of this Service in relation to dealing with one of Mr 
Ts complaint points  the inclusion in his portfolio since 2009 of an investment of £10,000 in 
a DB fund.
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.In responding to Evelyns final response in respect of his investment in the DB fund Mr T 
said:
I profess to not fully understand the historical ownership and workings of Tilney within the 
widely acknowledged corrupt operations of DB. What I can conclude, is that I am apparently 
faced with the fact that my Portfolio includes an asset value that is untradeable. You also 
confirm that the overvaluation of my Portfolio has been happening since 2009!! The 
valuation of my Portfolio has only been directly MANAGED by Tilney since 2003, nobody 
else.
I AM NOT INTERESTED IN YOUR ANGLE TO ABSOLVE TILNEY OF ANY 
RESPONSIBLITY IN THIS MATTER. I HAVE NO RECORD OF BEING ADVISED OF THIS 
PROBLEM. TILNEY HAS HID THE PROBLEM WITHIN MY PORTFOLIO VALUATION. 
HOWEVER SMALL, YOU MORALLY SHOULD AT LEAST DIRECTLY PAY ME THE 
HISTORIC VALUATION OF £126.64. YOU SHOULD TAKE THE LOSS, NOT ME!
Some of the matters here relate to the merits of Mr Ts complaint, and while he may or may 
not have a reasonable argument, the first matter I must consider is whether this Service can 
consider this element of his case.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Ts complaint was raised with Evelyn in August 2022. It issued a final response to him on 
16 September 2022. As the issue complained about, the DB asset becoming illiquid, 
happened in 2009, his case is out of time on the six-year limb of the test.
Turning to the three-year test. I need to decide when Mr T became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause to complain. And having established 
that date, determine whether he brought his complaint within three years of it.
Ive reviewed documentation available, including annual statements for Mr Ts SIPP from 
2011 onwards that were addressed to his financial adviser. These include entries labelled to 
indicate his DB fund was in liquidation and I can also see that he benefitted from cash 
distributions related to it over several years.
Evelyn said:
I believe it is probable Mr T would have been aware of the issues relating to this investment 
prior to April 2011, however I believe that the statements he received from that point forward 
showed him the investment was in difficulty and the payouts from the administrators, usefully 
labelled as Resulting from Scheme of Arrangement Of Deutsche Bank from February 2013, 
would support a position that Mr T has not bought this aspect of his complaint in time and 
therefore this should not be considered.
Notwithstanding this, the investment was included as part of a discretionary portfolio and as 
such would have been judged as suitable by an investment professional and not subject to 
the financial promotion rules applicable to individuals. Whilst it is disappointing that the 
investment has not performed as well as expected I do believe it was suitable for him.
Mr T said:
[I] WOULD SUGGEST THAT MAJORITY OF JO PUBLIC WOULD NOT READ ALL OF 
THE VAST DETAIL SUPPLIED FROM A SIPP INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT COMPANY, 
THE REMAINING BEING HIGH-VALUE PROFESSIONAL INVESTORS. AS A RESULT, DUE TO THE SUGGESTON THAT [I] HAD APARENT LACK OF DETAILED INTEREST 
AND A DE-REGULATED IFA, [I AM] STUFFED. [I] BELIEVE FIRMLY THAT SUCH AN 
UNTRADABLE INVESTMENT, SHOULD HAVE BEEN SEPERATELY ADVISED TO BOTH 
THE CLIENT AND THE IFA. AS MENTIONED BEFORE, TILNEY INVESTING IN ITs OWN 
PARENT COMPANY, MUST BE A QUESTIONABLE ACTION. TILNEY IS CLEARLY 
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THIS POOR JUDGED INVESTMENT. CONSEQUENTLY, TILNEY 
SHOULD FULLY RECOMPENCE £10K PLUS INTEREST FOR THIS POOR 
INVESTMENT.
Im mindful that the investment in the DB fund represented around 7% of the value of Mr Ts 
SIPP in 2011. And even if he wasnt sent annual statements, its clear his IFA was. I also 
think its a reasonable assumption to make that when theres a significant development such 
as a fund going into liquidation, this would be a matter for discussion between a client and 
their adviser. There has also been a steady flow of payments into Mr Ts fund over several 
years clearly labelled as relating to the return of capital to investors.
Ive concluded that for the purposes of our three year time limit, the clock started for Mr T in 
2011. This is when he was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that he had 
cause to complain about what had happened with his DB fund. As he didnt bring his 
complaint until 2021, it follows I must conclude his case is time-barred.
Ive considered whether there are any exceptional circumstances which might have 
prevented Mr T from raising his complaint in time. But the available evidence doesnt 
demonstrate to me such a situation existed.
Our rules are designed to provide finality to both parties. Theyre intended to give consumers 
an appropriate amount of time to bring a claim. But also reassure businesses that they wont 
have to deal with cases where a consumer has known, or ought reasonably to have known, 
they had cause for complaint years earlier.
I know Mr T is frustrated and disappointed by my decision here. I understand hed like his 
complaint about his DB fund to be investigated, but I cant disregard the rules that apply. Im 
not allowed to consider cases that dont fall within our jurisdiction.
As an aside, I understand Mr T has received over £10,000 back from his DB fund 
investment. And since his journey with this Service started, the final payment from the 
administrator has been made and the fund closed.
Turning now to the other elements of Mr Ts complaint.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Evelyn for Mr T. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the  
relevant time. They must always be adhered to by regulated firms. As such, I need to have 
regard to them in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
The change in provider of Mr Ts SIPP
At the heart of Mr Ts complaint is the fact that he had to change his SIPP provider. This was 
driven by commercial decisions taken by Tilney to merge with another company, one 
consequence of which was to end its arrangement with Pershing. Its not the role of this 
Service to interfere with such matters. But that doesnt absolve firms from adhering to the 
Principles in their dealings with customers.
Mr T has expressed his concern about what happened in the following terms:
I had absolutely no say in the decision to stop using Pershing for my SIPP Administration. 
[Evelyn] came to see me at home on 7 October 2021Three subjects were explained to me: 
 The merger of Tilney with Smith Williamson
 The fact that TMS were stopping their business relationship with Pershing for SIPP 
administration
 Clients were therefore expected to appoint their own SIPP Administrator. 
No specific target date was quoted by [Evelyn], other than the obvious one, I needed to take 
action.
Evelyns position was set out in its final response to Mr T:
I have spoken to [our representative] who has been your investment manager for many 
years and reviewed the email exchanges between both parties from October 2021 
concerning the planned move away from Pershing as a SIPP provider. It was explained 
whilst this was the plan, there was no rush to move, and, it was pointed out, the fees 
charged by Pershing were very competitive. Although initially planned for April 2022, for 
operational reasons the change has been put back until at least the end of the calendar 
year.
As a matter of courtesy, [our representative] provided the names of three SIPP providers, 
with whom we deal, to all his clients who were affected, but I cannot find any evidence you 
were informed you had to move. On your own initiative you established a new SIPP with 
Dentons, and I do not believe Evelyn Partners are responsible for any additional fees you 
have incurred because of this. I am therefore unable to offer a refund of the fees as 
requested.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Evelyn provided Mr T with advice about which 
SIPP provider he should use in the future. I think it made clear that it wasnt its role to 
provide a financial advice service and about the limits of its input. I think it was being helpful 
in identifying three options for him, where those providers were suitable for people with 
relatively modest pension pots and which it already worked with. But it also made clear in the 
exchanges from October and November 2021 he could research the market.
Although Evelyn wasnt providing advice to Mr T about his SIPP provider it was providing 
him with information. And it had a duty to do so in a way which was clear, fair and not 
misleading. In this regard I do find significant weaknesses in its approach.
Its clear that Evelyn notified Mr T that it was ending its relationship with Pershing and about 
the consequences for him. Its file note of the meeting on 7 October 2021 which took place at 
his home records the following:We discussed the fees and with [Mr T] being such a technical man he would look into the 
ones on offer. He did say it was a shame that he was being forced to move really, but I said 
there was no rush and any new fees could come out of the portfolio so he didn't have to 
write a cheque. SIPP Choice seemed to be the one that fitted the bill.
Evelyns email summarising the position for Mr T on 8 October 2021 contained the following 
extract:
Please take the time to do your research and ensure that you are fully aware of all aspects 
of the pension product. When you are ready, please open an account with your chosen 
provider. Please then let me know which you have chosen, so that we can open a 
corresponding account with Tilney Smith and Williamson, to receive the assets from your 
pension provider and manage them to the mandate we have discussed.
Id make the following observations about these communications from Evelyn:
- I can understand why Mr T noted that a home visit from his investment manager 
being rare indicated he was being informed about a development of significance.
- Theres no evidence Mr T was provided with a firm date that he should work towards 
for finding a new SIPP provider.
- But the consequence of its business decision on him was very clear, and the tenor of 
its communication was that he should take action and as soon as he had made his 
choice he was to inform it so it could open a corresponding account.
Evelyn says an in-specie switch of SIPP providers usually takes 8 to 12 weeks. Allowing for 
some margin of comfort given the number of parties involved and the complexity of such 
transactions, based on the information available to Mr T, his action to put in place a new 
provider couldnt reasonably be characterised as precipitate. My view here is strengthened 
by the fact that in its final response to Mr T, Evelyn said its plan had been to complete the 
move away from Pershing in April 2022.
On 2 March 2022 Evelyn sent an email to Mr T in the following terms:
I just wanted to mention that Pershings are probably going to be around for a lot longer than 
first thought (probably the rest of this year) and so there is no rush to get you across into a 
new SIPP wrapper anytime soon.
And obviously that will mean you will not incur the transfer and set up costs and will enjoy 
the relatively cheap Pershing fees for a while longer.
This triggered a frustrated response from Mr T, who noted hed already set up a new SIPP 
with Dentons and that he was already incurring fees. Hed taken action based on what hed 
been told by Evelyn. Its investment manager responded in the following terms:
Dont have a go at Tilney or anyone else, I havent sorted things to get all my ducks in a 
row, nobody else. But also Pershing SIPP costs are incredibly low, so I am actually pursuing 
another avenue whereby you can enjoy low fees. The reason I said no rush is that we are 
working through literally thousands of client accounts in our migration away from Pershing. I 
had the impression this was happening quite quickly, but you can imagine the huge job it 
actually is. So since that means you can stay and keep those low fees for as long as 
possible I havent gone all out with a changeWhy upset the status quo if there is no 
immediate need.
Mr T has told this Service he told Evelyn in November 2021 of his decision to apply for a 
Dentons SIPP. And he says it wouldve received the transfer application forms. It says it 
didnt find out until March 2022. Ive not seen compelling evidence to underpin either partys assertions on this point. But its not a matter I need to get to the bottom of because of my 
conclusions that follow.
The move away from Pershing took Evelyn more than 8 months longer than it had originally 
planned. Indeed, in its last response it has confirmed its ties with that business still havent 
been completely severed. I understand that operational changes of the sort it was 
undergoing are complicated. They require careful project management and due diligence. 
Changes affect structures, policies, products, stakeholders and staff. But these matters 
shouldnt be a concern for customers, one of the most important considerations for firms 
going through transformations is to ensure the impact on them is minimised. And that 
requires good communications and effective mitigations.
In responding to my provisional decision Evelyns adviser said:
There was no ultimatum to move from Pershings, as repeatedly told to [Mr T]. And the 
relationship with them is still in place to this day, ALL my other clients heeded my words and 
kept with the highly competitive Pershing SIPP prices. And we have still not been given a 
date to move them anywhere. The Ombudsman seems to think it has finished, but it hasnt. 
And it was helpful of us to give him the three options, as he was IM only it was his choice, 
not ours.
Amongst other matters, Evelyn went on to say:
As a business, we did not issue any official communications to Mr T, and anything that 
would have been issued would have been approved prior to issue to ensure that it complied 
with the regulations that are being highlighted.
The fact that we were looking to end our relationship by April 2022 does not, in my view, 
support the view that Mr T had to find a new provider as quickly as possible as once written 
notice was given to clients that the relationship was ending, they would still have time to find 
a new provider.
Firstly, I note the update on the position with regards to Evelyns relationship with Pershing 
which will be helpful in framing redress.
More generally Im afraid I cant accept the thrust of what Evelyn says here. I think its a 
position advanced in hindsight. The advisers own response to Mr T in March 2022 indicates 
the move away from Pershing was taking much longer than hed thought would be the case 
(and by extension had led Mr T to believe). And it appears those delays have continued.
Further, while it says it has never issued any official communications to Mr T about the 
changes, it hasnt addressed the content of its advisers file note and email from October 
2021 which Ive concluded set him on a path to replace his SIPP provider sooner than hed 
needed to. 
Its clear the only reason Mr T changed his SIPP provider was because of Evelyns business 
changes. Ive concluded that it failed to give him the information he needed in October 2021 
or subsequently so he could plan effectively for putting in place a new SIPP provider. It didnt 
give him sufficient detail about the timelines involved, nor about progress, nor that it would 
be in his interests to remain with Pershing for as long as possible given it was the 
established and cheaper option.
While Evelyn asserts it made clear to Mr T in October 2021 that he had plenty of time to find 
a new SIPP provider, Ive concluded its more likely than not it actually left him with the 
impression he needed to act. He did so in good faith. And its arguable, from the evidence 
available, its approach here was somewhat cavalier.Mr T says that by establishing his Dentons SIPP before he needed to hes incurred 
duplicate and higher fees than would have been the case had Evelyns communications 
been more effective. And he says hes had to meet the cost of fees from his own budget 
because of the delay in moving his investments across to his new arrangement.
I note that during the Investigation process Evelyn has accepted responsibility for some of 
the delays Mr T experienced in the switching of his SIPP investments from Pershing to 
Dentons, which he confirmed to it in March 2022 he wanted to proceed with since hed 
already established the new wrapper.
For example, between 20 March and 25 May 2022 there was a change in the custodian of 
some of the assets in Mr Ts portfolio, as I understand it related to the new business 
arrangements it had decided to put in place. Additionally, between 19 August and 26 
September 2022 it had failed to act on a communication from Dentons concerning the illiquid 
investment held in his SIPP.
While these are substantial delays, given that Mr Ts investments were transferring in-
specie, meaning his funds were never out of the market, theres no evidence of direct 
financial detriment. That said, following the intervention of the Investigator Evelyn agreed to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr T by offering him £350. 
Id note issues around delays assume less importance, given my earlier finding in relation to 
Evelyns failings to communicate clearly and fairly with Mr T about the need to change his 
SIPP provider.
Delays and non-payment of Mr Ts monthly pension drawdown
Problems making drawdown payments to Mr T have been an ongoing issue. For example, 
on file I can see that in August 2021 Evelyn sent an email to Pershing notifying it that Mr T 
hadnt received his payments for July and August 2021. In response Pershing said:
Firstly, I would like to offer our sincere apologies for the inconvenience this issue has 
caused. I appreciate Mr T relies on these payments for his living expenses and this is not the 
first time he has had income delayed. It appears that there has been an administrative error 
when adding Mr T back to our payroll following his capped drawdown review
I have escalated this issue and steps have been put in place to ensure that this does not 
happen again. Mr T will receive his September income payment at the expected time and 
each month then going forward
In its final response to Mr T on 16 September 2022, concerning delayed pension payments, 
Evelyn said:
The delayed payments you have experienced have been as a result of administrative issues 
at Pershing, the most recent being explained as being due to the transfer of your SIPP to 
Dentons. Each time this has occurred we have contacted Pershing to correct their error. We 
have issued no instruction to Pershing to cease payments and, therefore, cannot accept 
responsibility for this. You may wish to complain directly to Pershing regarding this and if so I 
will forward your complaint to them.
In responding Mr T noted:
Your assertion/statement is that where monthly pension payments were missed in error by 
Pershing, I always received the pension later. That is a completely false assertion. These 
omissions were as a result of poor administration regarding HRMC TAX CODES and 
COMPUTER FAILINGS. I must confirm that back payments did not always happen. In the past I complained directly to Pershing, only to be abruptly advised by [Evelyn] that I should 
not contact them directly and that they would not ever respond to me. Really !!
THE CURRENT STATE OF PLAY IS THAT I HAVE NOT RECEIVED ANY PENSION FOR 
SEPTEMBER 2022 AND THERE IS NO APPARENT RECORD THAT MY OCTOBER 2022 
PENSION HAS BEEN PAID. GOING FORWARD, I THEREFORE MUST CONCLUDE THAT 
I WILL NOT RECEIVE ANY PENSION FOR THE REST OF THE YEAR, WHEN THE 
TRANSFER IS EVENTUALLY COMPLETED. AS YOU HAVE QUOTED, THIS IS CLEARLY 
DUE TO "OPERATIONAL REASONS"WITHIN TILNEY etc, SINCE THE STAFF OF YOUR 
GROUP OF COMPANY'S HAS BEEN SOLEY PRE-OCCUPIED WITH MERGERS, 
ACQUISITIONS, REBRANDING, CAPITAL GROWTH AND PROFIT. ENTIRELY AT THE 
EXPENSE OF THEIR CLIENTS
Mr T has reiterated that on more than one occasion he was told by Evelyn not to contact 
Pershing directly about matters such as his pension payments or the delay in obtaining his 
P45 documentation. The Investigator considered the role of the different firms in dealing with 
Mr Ts pension payments:
whilst most of the dealings between Mr T and Pershing went through Evelyn, Pershing 
are the SIPP provider and Evelyn are the discretionary investment fund manager. So, Mr T 
has a separate client-business relationship with the two businesses. Evelyn are responsible 
for the management of the funds the SIPP is invested in, where-as Pershing are responsible 
for the administration of the SIPP including any transfer out requests.
When I asked Evelyn to clarify their responsibility, they said Mr T is an investment only 
client. So, their role is to provide comments about the suitability of investments and to raise 
any payments Mr T may request from his SIPP with Pershing. It is also important to note 
here Evelyn are not operating in the capacity of a financial adviser  Mr T is aware of this as 
he has confirmed his knowledge that he doesnt have a financial adviser on his SIPP 
account.
The Investigator noted that the Pershing SIPP terms and conditions said, The scheme was 
established by us as Provider and Operator, We are responsible for operating and 
administering the scheme and We are the company with whom you are contracting in 
respect of your SIPP.
I think the particular roles and responsibilities here are clear, although the firms involved with 
Mr Ts affairs wouldve needed to have communicated effectively. 
Im remain unsighted on what, if any, pension payments Mr T believes remain outstanding. 
He didnt provide any further information with regard to this matter for me to consider. I 
understand any missed payments wouldve put pressure on his household finances and 
caused him stress and inconvenience. But any missing payments will be funds in his SIPP 
earning investment returns.
It was Pershing (and later Dentons) role to have administered payments, and we have 
evidence in respect of the former that it had previously been responsible for problems. It was 
Evelyns role to make sure that any requests for drawdown payments could be met from Mr 
Ts funds. Ive not seen evidence that in fulfilling this role it was the cause of any delayed or 
missed payments to Mr T.
So, I make no finding of failing against Evelyn on this matter.
Putting things rightIve concluded that Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited failed to 
inform Mr T in a clear, fair and timely manner about the timing and implications of its 
decision to end its business relationship with Pershing. It set Mr T on the road to putting in 
place another SIPP provider earlier than he needed to.
If Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited had more effectively executed 
its duty of care and acted with more diligence Ive concluded its more likely than not Mr T 
wouldve remained with his Pershing SIPP for much longer, to take advantage of the 
comparatively lower costs.
In responding to my provisional decision Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services 
Limited confirmed:
We have not yet severed our relationship with Pershing, but the migration of our clients is 
[in] process and is being done in tranches.
In terms of making an assumption about when Mr T shouldve taken out his Dentons SIPP, 
its reasonable to assume hed have started the switching process around 12 weeks before 
Evelyn finally completed the move of his affairs. It has started that migration, but not yet 
completed the process for all its clients. 
To keep things simple, should Mr T accept my decision, Evelyn Partners Investment 
Management Services Limited should take the date of his acceptance as the notional date at 
which his new SIPP was in place and ready to go. So the relevant period will be from when 
Mr Ts Denton SIPP was actually established until his new arrangement shouldve been 
operative.
I mindful that certain costs incurred by Mr T, such as the fee to set-up his new SIPP 
wouldve had to have been met in any event. Hes not entitled to reimbursement of these.
But where hes incurred duplicate and/or higher fees during the relevant period, for example 
perhaps in relation to annual administration fees, then I require Evelyn Partners Investment 
Management Services Limited to meet these. The principle should be his ongoing SIPP 
costs for the relevant period are capped at what he wouldve incurred under his former 
arrangement with Pershing.
It is reasonable for Mr T to evidence such costs or to authorise Evelyn Partners Investment 
Management Services Limited to liaise with his former and current SIPP providers to obtain 
such.
To the sum of any excess costs established for the relevant period, Evelyn will need to add 
8% simple annual interest from the date on which any these costs were paid until it settles.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ts I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Evelyns actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Its clear from the communications Ive seen that Evelyn Partners Investment Management 
Services Limiteds handling of Mr Ts situation has caused him considerable angst. Hes also told us about the impact on his health. I mindful that not everything that has gone wrong with 
his pension arrangements can be laid at Evelyns door.
Nevertheless by its own admission Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services 
Limited was responsible for significant delays in the switch of his SIPP to a new provider, 
which although Ive concluded didnt need to have been initiated when it was, had a negative 
impact on him. To this I add the failings in terms of its communications with him on that 
matter. These things went on for many months. As such I think an award of £500 is 
appropriate in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Evelyn Partners 
Investment Management Services Limited now needs to put things right in the way Ive 
directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman