DRN-3322452
The complaint
Mr S says Progressive Money Limited (PML) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says that it 
wasnt made clear to him how much the loan he took would cost. He also says that PML 
didnt look into his finances in a reasonable way. If it had done it wouldve seen that he 
couldnt afford the loan repayments and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan PML provided to Mr S in June 2018. Mr S borrowed £5,000. 
He was due to make 108 monthly repayments of £197.67. He would pay a total of 
£21,348.44 to the loan over the nine year term. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr S complaint as she thought Mr S shouldnt have been given the 
loan. This was because she thought that Mr S already had a large amount of credit and the 
repayments to all of this were likely to be too much overall.  
PML disagreed with the adjudicator, it said that:
It didnt provide advice to Mr S before he started the loan. 
It did perform a detailed investigation of his circumstances to see if the loan was 
affordable for him. 
This investigation showed that Mr S could afford the loan on a day to day basis, 
particularly as his partner helped with the bills, and he wasnt having significant 
current problems repaying his existing debts. 
There were plausible reasons for the recent defaults, and other repayment problems, 
hed had. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did PML, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr S would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do so?
Did PML act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that PML did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S and that as 
a result he lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr S ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. PML 
doesnt have to give advice for this to apply. 
The checks had to be borrower focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments doe Mr S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint. 
PML has provided evidence to show that before lending the loan it asked Mr S about his 
income and expenditure in a series of phone calls. It also looked at some information from a 
credit reference agency and looked at his bank statements. Based on those checks PML 
thought it was fair to lend.
Ive looked closely at the information PML had before lending. PML recorded that Mr S had 
an income of £1,900 per month. His general expenditure was recorded as being around 
£1,500 per month. This included his existing credit commitments of around £500.  So, before 
the new loan repayments Mr S would have some spare income each month. But, I dont 
think he had a great deal left over, and as the term of the new loan was around 9 years. Its 
reasonable to say it was likely this would cause him problems as some point in the future. 
Its been established that Mr S already had a large amount of other credit before he took this 
loan. Mr S had a mortgage. And he had other loans with balances of around £17,000. As far 
as I can see there was no loan consolidation proposed. And there were already signs that Mr S was in financial difficulty in the information PML had. 
Some of the evidence of difficulty was historic. For example, Mr S had a number of 
unsatisfied county court judgements. Two of these were put in place in 2013 and two were 
from 2016, so they werent recent to the start of this lending. But Mr S was still making 
repayments to them so they shouldnt be disregarded either. 
And Mr S had recently taken a new hire purchase agreement for around £9,000. And he had 
opened five other new credit accounts in the last six months and one of these was now 
showing as delinquent. So, it also seems reasonable to say that the problems hed had in 
the past hadnt really been resolved. 
Much of this was discussed in the telephone calls Mr S had with PML. At one point Mr S 
explains that he had made arrangements with his recent creditors due to some payment 
problems. And as part of the complaint PML said that it found Mr S explanations plausible 
about this. But leaving aside whether his explanations were plausible, he was clearly in 
some difficulty. 
And I think PML recognised this as it discussed whether Mr S needed to take the loan with 
his partner or reduce the amount of bill payments Mr S was responsible for. I accept that this 
may reflect how things actually were for Mr S. But it doesnt really change what I think about 
Mr S situation. Whatever Mr S partners contribution to the household expenditures may 
have been, it hadnt stopped Mr S having financial problems. 
So overall, Ive seen a picture here of someone who was in financial difficulties. And this was 
a significant commitment for a long time. So, I dont think that PML could say with any 
degree of confidence that Mr S could make the loan repayments sustainably. And I dont 
think it was responsible to lend. 
Ive also thought about whether PML acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
But PML needs to put things right as I think it irresponsibly lent this loan.
Putting things right
PML should now:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr S as payments towards the capital amount of 
£5,000.
If Mr S has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
him with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, PML should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr S.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to take off tax from this interest. PML must give Mr 
S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Progressive Money Limited 
should put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman