DRN-3622931
The complaint
Mr I complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr I says during 2021 he experienced financial difficulties caused by illness. He says Lloyds 
unfairly registered defaults on his two loan accounts and didnt consider his position. Mr I 
says the default will cause difficulties for him in obtaining new work, due to the nature of his 
job, and would like the defaults removed.
Lloyds says Mr I spoke to it in January 2021, and it agreed a three-month plan during which 
Mr I would not be required to make any payments. It says it wrote to Mr I before and after the 
plan ended telling him to contact it, and Mr I didnt make required payments. Lloyds says it 
correctly registered defaults in respect of both loan accounts and says Mr I hasnt made any 
payments since.
Mr I brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the plan ended in April 2021, but Mr I didnt make required payments or agree a new 
plan. And thought Lloyds was entitled to register a default after about five months of arrears.
Mr I doesnt accept that view and says he was vulnerable and attending hospital at the time.
I asked both sides for further information.
I asked Mr I why he didnt contact Lloyds when the three-month plan ended and what 
information he gave it about his health.
I asked Lloyds for further call notes which it has provided.
Mr I hasnt provided the information I asked for but says he will not repay the loans out of 
principle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr I will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate the difficulties a 
default on his credit file will cause.
The Information Commissioners Officer (ICO) provides guidance on defaults. It says a 
default should be registered between three and six months of arrears and/or in 
circumstances where the relationship between the parties has broken down. Im satisfied 
that Lloyds ought to follow that guidance but must also treat customers in financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically.
I can see from Lloyds records that Mr I spoke to it in January 2021 about the two loan 
accounts. And that Mr I told Lloyds he was working and had recovered from his main illness 
but was dealing with its aftereffects. There is no dispute that a three-month plan was agreed 
during which loan payments were not required. I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr I telling him 
that plan ended on 12 April 2021 and that he should contact it before the plan ended. I can 
also see that letter told Mr I that the plan would impact his credit file.
Im satisfied that Lloyds wrote to Mr I on 13 April 2021 telling him the plan had ended and 
that he should contact it with his up to date financial position. I have not seen any evidence 
that Mr I replied to that letter or contacted Lloyds before it again wrote to him on 22 April 
2021. Im satisfied that letter made clear to Mr I the risk that his accounts may default, and 
that Lloyds sent a number of other letters to Mr I including default notices. So, it follows that 
Im satisfied that Lloyds made Mr I aware that he needed to contact it and that there was a 
risk the accounts would default if he didnt contact it or didnt repay the arrears.
I can see that Mr I did contact Lloyds on 13 May 2021 and confirmed he had received the 
default notices. But I can also see that Mr I didnt wish to go through an income/expenditure 
assessment and was told that he would continue to receive default notices as well as letters 
about the account. So, Im satisfied that Mr I was fairly made aware by Lloyds that he 
needed to go through a new financial assessment and without it there was a risk of his 
accounts defaulting. I find it was Mr Is choice not to go through that assessment and that he 
was obliged to make the contractually agreed repayments.
I think the next contact, having looked through Lloyds records, was in June 2021. I can see 
there is a record of Mr I telling Lloyds that he was not prepared to make any loan 
repayments. So, I think it clear that the relationship between Mr I and Lloyds had broken 
down and that Lloyds was reasonably entitled in around May/June 2021 after about five 
months of arrears to register a default on Mr Is credit file.
I appreciate Mr I says he wasnt treated fairly by Lloyds. But Im satisfied Lloyds fairly agreed 
a three-month plan with him and gave him details of organisations that could also provide 
financial help. Im also satisfied that Lloyds had no real choice but to send Mr I a default 
notice when he didnt contact it before the end of the plan or until sometime after it ended. I 
dont see what else Lloyds could have done to help Mr I in circumstances where Mr I wasnt 
prepared in May 2021 to spend some time going through a new financial assessment and 
later made clear he had no intention of repaying the loan.
Overall, I find that Lloyds was entitled to register a default in these circumstances and didnt 
act unfairly by doing so. Im satisfied that it made clear its position to Mr I during telephone 
calls and letters and that this was Mr Is account, so his responsibility to contact it before the 
plan ended. It follows that I cant fairly order Lloyds to remove the defaults from Mr Is credit 
file. Im also satisfied Lloyds treated Mr I positively and sympathetically by agreeing the 
original plan and providing him with details of organisations that could help him. I also think it 
likely on balance that Lloyds could have offered further support if Mr I had contacted it before 
the plan ended and if he had been prepared to provide further details of his financial position 
during the 13 May 2021 telephone call.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
David SinghOmbudsman