DRN-1066257
The complaint
Mr B complains about how UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Insurance, dealt with a 
claim against his motor insurance policy. His mother, Mrs B is helping him to bring his 
complaint. 
What happened
In June 2019, in the early hours of the morning, Mr Bs car was broken into whilst parked at 
his place of work. I understand that the thief smashed the rear windscreen and stole items 
from the car. Mr B made a claim against his policy. He complains that:
UKI told him to drive the car home but it wasnt safe to do so and he cut his hand.
There were difficulties getting a hire car and he was given incorrect information about 
that.
He was told, incorrectly, that he couldnt claim for the loss of his personal belongings.
Mrs B was asked for his authorisation to deal with the complaint, but that wasnt 
necessary.
UKI dealt with the claim as theft and not under its vandalism promise.
UKI didnt call back when it said it would do so.
The claim and repairs process has been difficult.
 
UKI upheld large parts of Mr Bs complaint and paid him compensation of £300. It didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint that it told him to drive his car home when it wasnt safe to do so or 
that it dealt with the claim as a theft claim and not under its vandalism promise. Mr B 
remains concerned about these issues. He wants his no claims discount to remain 
unaffected. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that UKI had dealt with 
Mr Bs complaint fairly. The investigator said that he didnt think that UKI was at fault in 
asking Mr B to secure the car to prevent further losses and that the policy includes a 
provision that Mr B must take all reasonable steps to protect the car and its contents from 
loss or damage. He said that, as Mr B had claimed for his personal belongings, UKI was 
right to deal with the matter as a theft claim, not vandalism. 
Mr B didnt agree. Mrs B responded on his behalf and said:
Mr B doesnt seek additional compensation: he wants his no claims discount to 
remain unaffected. 
UKI told her that whether or not Mr B claimed for personal belongings, the claim 
wouldnt be recorded as a vandalism claim. 
The vandalism promise doesnt mention theft. 
The reference in the policy to taking reasonable steps to protect the car and its 
contents from loss or damage relates more to before an attempted break-in. 
Mr B disputes that UKI wasnt aware that the car was unsafe to drive, as it was 
obvious that there would be glass all over the inside of the car. 
 As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why. 
I dont think it would have been apparent to UKI that Mr Bs car was unsafe to drive. So, I 
dont think it was wrong to ask Mr B to drive the car home and park it as safely as he could 
to prevent further loss or damage. If Mr B was concerned about the safety of doing so, it was 
open to him to raise that with UKI. 
Mr Bs policy says that, subject to certain conditions:
If you make a claim for damage to your car that is a result of vandalism, which is damage 
caused by a malicious and deliberate act, you will not lose your No Claim Discount
Mr B claimed for more than damage to his car: he claimed for the theft of his personal 
belongings. So, I dont think that UKI was wrong to adjust his no claims discount in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
The vandalism promise doesnt mention theft because it doesnt relate to a claim arising out 
of theft. Mrs B says that UKI told her that whether or not Mr B claimed for personal 
belongings, the claim wouldnt be recorded as a vandalism claim. Subject to certain 
conditions, a claim for damage caused by vandalism does qualify for the vandalism promise. 
So, what Mrs B says she was told wasnt the true position. But I dont think that changes the 
outcome here as Mr B claimed for theft of his personal belongings. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
B but there are no grounds on which to direct UKI to leave his no claims discount unaffected. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman