DRN-3661929
The complaint
Mr D complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) loaded him to a fraud database.
What happened
Mr D held an account with Metro, and it hadnt been used for some time. Mr Ds account was 
credited with £10,000. Metro was told by the sending bank this payment was fraudulent, and 
Metro blocked Mr Ds account.
Metro has notes to suggest Mr D called it and tried to access the money. Metro asked Mr D 
for proof of entitlement to the money, and none was provided.
Metro then closed Mr Ds account and recorded his details on a fraud database. Several 
years later, Mr D contacted Metro about this fraud marker, and asked it to remove it. Mr D 
said he knew nothing about the loading, hadnt spoken to Metro about the payment that 
came in and the fraud marker was stopping him opening accounts.
Metro responded to Mr Ds complaint and said it had loaded the marker fairly.
Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
The investigator was persuaded by Metros notes, and thought Mr D had spoken to it at the 
time the money was paid in. Since the money was fraudulent, and Mr D tried to access it, the 
investigator thought it was fair for Metro to add Mr Ds details to a fraud database.
Mr D didnt agree. Mr D said hed struggled to get an account elsewhere. Mr D also said hed 
previously received money from an unknown sender and spent it. Mr D also said hed never 
been arrested so Metro should remove the fraud marker.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete, I can decide things on the balance of probabilities, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
Theres little dispute Mr D received fraudulent money into his account. Metro has supplied 
evidence from the sending bank to prove the payment was fraudulent.
In order for a fraud marker to be loaded, there must be evidence of a fraudulent payment, 
which there is, but there must also be complicity. This means Mr D needed to have been 
somehow involved in receiving the payment, spending it, or attempting to spend it.
Mr Ds account hadnt been used for some time, almost a year, and was overdrawn at the 
time the payment was made. I dont understand why a fraudster would go to considerable 
effort to obtain a large amount of money but then pay it into an unused account, and one 
they didnt have access to.
It only seems reasonable the fraudster would want access to the money, once paid to Mr Ds 
account. And Metro has phone notes to show there was an attempt to access the money.
Metros notes show Mr D was identified during one of the calls, so I think its likely whoever 
Metro spoke to knew lots of Mr Ds personal details. The notes say the caller was looking to 
access the money paid in, and said it was from the sale of a car.
Metro asked for proof of the sale, but none was provided. A later call note says the caller 
had received a letter from Metro about the closure of the account and was asked to go to a 
branch to withdraw any money.
Mr D says he never told Metro the payment was for a car because he didnt know anything 
about the payment. I think its more likely than not the caller trying to access the money was 
Mr D. I think Mr D attempted to access this money and did so on numerous occasions.
I also think Mr D received the closure letter from Metro. But it took three and a half years for 
Mr D to complain about the closure and the fraud marker. I realise Mr D didnt know about 
the fraud marker when the account closed, but he did know his account had been closed.
But Mr D didnt complain to Metro at the time or ask it why the account was closed. I think its 
more likely Mr D didnt complain because he knew the payment hed received  and tried to 
access  was fraudulent.
I think Mr D was complicit in attempting to access the fraudulent money paid into his 
account. So it follows I think Metro has acted fairly in adding Mr Ds details to a fraud 
database, and I dont think it needs to remove his details.
Mr D has said hes struggled to access banking and this matter has had an adverse effect on 
his health. I dont doubt its been very difficult trying to open accounts, and I dont doubt this 
difficulty may have affected his physical and mental health.
But this difficulty comes from the fraud marker Metro loaded. And because I dont believe 
Metro did anything wrong in loading the marker, I cant hold it responsible for any knock on 
effects it may have had.
Mr D explained hed received money before, from an unknown sender, and spent it. I dont 
think this statement changes my opinion either way. But it does add to my thinking it was 
Mr D speaking to Metro. Mr D has had no issues spending money that wasnt his in the past.
Mr D also says hes never been arrested or questioned, so Metro is unfair to add a fraud 
marker. The rules for loading fraud markers dont include a necessity to arrest or prosecute 
someone for fraud.
The rules state there must have been fraudulent money paid in, and complicity. Since I 
believe both of these things happened, I think Metro was fair in loading the marker. The lack 
of an arrest doesnt mean Metro cant load a marker, or has to remove one it has loaded.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman