DRN-1678995
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs D took out in 2004 
when she was in a store. The PPI covered Mrs D if she couldnt work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that AXA 
hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Ds attention. 
And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
AXA didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Mrs D's condition is usually manageable and treated with medication so would be 
unlikely to affect her lifestyle.
It's not seen any evidence to show the severity of Mrs D's condition or how it affected 
her ability to work.
It's unlikely Mrs D would have thought she would have needed to claim for this 
condition. And other conditions would still have been covered.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs D, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to provide her with information which was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying. 
The terms of the policy said:
"You must not be aware of:
any sickness, disease, condition or injury in the 12 months before the start date that may 
cause you to claim for disability benefits......If you are aware of any of the events in 2 above we may still insure you. However, we will 
not pay benefits directly relating to that ....sickness, disease, condition or injury which you 
were aware of in the 12 months before the start date for disability "
Mrs D told us shed been diagnosed with a condition around seven years before she was 
sold the policy. This condition would not have been covered by the policy. Mrs D's told us  a 
bit more about this condition and how it impacted her daily life around the time she took the 
PPI.
In summary, the condition caused her to take time off work; her symptoms would get worse if 
she caught any other infection, such as a cold or flu, taking her longer to recover; she took 
regular medication - but with varying results; she regularly saw her GP about her condition.
From what she's told us, I think that, when she took out the policy, she was likely to have 
anticipated that any time off work would likely be due to this condition, or something 
connected to it. So I think this condition would have affected her decision to take the policy.
I find that, had the exclusion terms been brought to Mrs D's attention, its more likely than not 
that she wouldnt have taken the policy. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
AXA has told us Mrs D's store card account is now closed. So it needs to do the following:
1. AXA should find out how much Mrs D would have owed when she closed her store 
card.
 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs D owed when she closed 
she account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
2. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs D 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund. 
 
3. If  when AXA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs D paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs D paid. And they should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs D wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 

 
4. AXA should tell Ms D what its done to work out A, B and C.
 If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs D that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman