DRN-3221015
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr G complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to his account in the 
previous 15 years. He said hed been experiencing financial difficulties throughout this period 
and the charges had made things worse. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as 
Mr G was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that we would 
only be able to consider charges applied from 2014 onwards. He also explained that he 
thought Santander ought to have realised that Mr G was experiencing financial difficulty by 
1 February 2016 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this 
point onwards. Santander didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 1 February 
2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr G was in no position to sustainably 
repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because Mr Gs statements showed evidence of significant gambling, use of 
payday lending, and other high cost borrowing. Mr G was also regularly incurring charges for 
unpaid and returned payments, another indicator that he was struggling to manage his 
account. And in these circumstances, Santander ought to have realised that Mr G was at a 
significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. Santander has said it 
regularly reviews customer accounts to ensure that overdraft limits are still appropriate, and I 
think the conduct of Mr Gs account by 1 February 2016 should have given Santander cause 
for concern. In these circumstances, I think that Santander ought to have realised that 
continuing to allow Mr G to use his overdraft in this way wasnt in his best interests, and that 
he was at a significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty. And so Santander should have 
treated him with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges to his 
overdraft.
I acknowledge that Mr G was able to repay his overdraft later on in 2016, through an 
increased payment from his employer and some apparent betting windfalls. But these funds 
were quickly used up, with much of them being used for more betting, this isnt a sustainable 
way for an account to be managed.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Gs account from 1 February 2016.
Mr G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr G fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 1 February 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr G is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mr Gs credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 
2016. Santander can also reduce the overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr G over 
her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Gs overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman