DRN-1319768
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed a restriction on her account that 
prevented her from making large transactions without telling her.  
What happened
Miss P has raised a number of complaints about Barclays. This decision deals only with her 
complaint about the security marker placed on her account. 
In early 2017, Miss P asked Barclays to put a marker on her account which would mean 
further checks were triggered whenever someone tried to make larger transactions. When 
she later tried to make a large transaction she was upset to find these extra checks werent 
triggered. Barclays told her the marker on her account had lapsed automatically after a year. 
Miss P said other staff had told her that the block had been removed, and shouldnt have 
been removed by anyone but her. 
Miss P said she wasnt told the marker would only be on for a year, and she wasnt 
contacted when it lapsed either. She asked for the marker to be put back on. 
A couple of months later, in summer 2018, Miss P was told the marker was no longer on her 
account. She said Barclays put it back after this, and agreed to renew it at the end of the 
year.
Miss P said this caused her a lot of stress. Shed had to travel to the UK from overseas to 
sort it out. 
Barclays says when it puts this sort of marker on a customers account, it only lasts for a 
year. So any larger transactions that Miss P tried to do over a year after the marker was first 
placed on her account wouldnt include extra checks. The marker had just lapsed. Barclays 
says its sorry it didnt explain this to Miss P when it put the marker on. 
Barclays said it put the marker back on for Miss P after her large transaction went through. It 
understood shed been told after this that the marker still wasnt on her account. Barclays 
said that was because branch staff werent able to see that marker on the system they were 
using. Barclays apologised for the confusion, it says the marker was definitely on at this 
point. 
Barclays said it then amended the marker on its systems so its branch staff could see it. The 
marker would be in place until June 2019. Barclays had set a reminder to reapply the marker 
then, it suggested Miss P do the same. Barclays was also looking into changing its systems 
so markers like this one wouldnt lapse after a year.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. Because Barclays hadnt told Miss P that the marker 
on her account would only be on for a year, he said it was reasonable for her to expect the 
marker to stay on. And he noted Miss P doesnt have a debit card because of fraud concerns, so he thought the marker lapsing wouldve caused her a significant amount of 
worry and distress. He thought Barclays should pay £200 to make up for that.
Barclays agreed. But Miss P didnt. She said that Barclays had repeatedly taken off the 
marker from her account between January 2017 and June 2018. She didnt believe that 
there was a marker on her account in June 2018, and was concerned that someone could 
have taken money out at a branch. She thought Barclays should be reprimanded by our 
service, and said no bank anywhere is allowed to take a marker off without client 
instructions. Miss P at least wanted her expenses for her visit to the UK to sort this out. 
Because Miss P didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P is very concerned about possible fraud on her account. Preventing large withdrawals 
from being made without extra checks was important to her. Miss P wasnt told that the 
marker triggering these checks lapses automatically after a year. I think she shouldve been 
told that. 
Miss P was able to make a large transaction in March 2018, and was apparently told by 
branch staff some months later that the marker wasnt on her account. She thought Barclays 
had repeatedly taken the marker off, and she said it shouldnt have done that without her 
permission. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays took action to remove this 
marker. I think it did simply lapse after a year. 
It also seems as if the marker was initially only on one of Barclays two systems, the one for 
its international team. I understand that this was rectified in summer 2018. Before that, 
Barclays told us that Miss P was able to take money out over the phone, but when she did 
this, she would speak to the international team, who did have the marker on their system 
and would make extra checks. 
Miss P was concerned that she couldve been the victim of fraud in a branch, if someone 
took money out over the counter and the branch staff couldnt see the restriction on her 
account. But Barclays has told us that it requires a passport or drivers licence to take money 
out like this. And that would be difficult for a fraudster to forge or obtain. I know Miss P did 
lose some sensitive paperwork some time ago, but I still think that Barclays is right to say 
that this was a relatively low risk. But I also think Miss P wouldnt have had this worry at all if 
Barclays had noted the marker on both its systems. I think it shouldve done this from the 
start, and Im glad it did so in summer 2018.
Although Miss P wasnt actually the victim of fraud, she was caused unnecessary concern. 
So I do think Barclays has made mistakes in this case. I agree with our investigator that 
Barclays should pay some compensation. 
Miss P wanted Barclays to pay for the trip to the UK she made to sort this out. But Ive not 
been able to see why she had to come to the UK to resolve this in person. And I dont think 
its Barclays fault that Miss Ps bank is quite far from where she lives. So I dont think 
Barclays needs to pay for that. I think that, considering the circumstances of this complaint in full, that the amount of £200 
that our investigator suggested is the right amount to resolve this complaint. Its in line with 
what I wouldve proposed, if he hadnt done so already. So thats what Ill award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss P £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman