DRN-3269051
The complaint
Mr B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In January 2020 Loans 2 Go approved Mr B for a loan of £1,000, repayable over 18 months 
at around £228 each month. According to the records sent to us, Mr B appears to have 
made one repayment and in April 2020 registered a complaint with Loans 2 Go. It responded 
with its final response letter dated 14 May 2020 in which it gave explanations as to why it did 
not uphold his complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman late but Loans 2 Go gave its 
consent for the complaint to be investigated by us. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and has said that Loans 2 Go had done all 
that he would have expected it to have done before lending. 
Mr B requested that this be reviewed by an ombudsman and as the complaint remained 
unresolved it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering all these , I think the questions I need to think about in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are:
oDid Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr B would have been able to do so?
oDid Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
Its referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
It wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also had to be 
proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
We understand from Loans 2 Go that when Mr B applied for the loan he gave an income 
figure of £1,700 a month which Loans 2 Go checked (by using the credit search information 
had received) and used the minimum income figure it discovered which was just over 
£1,223. 
Mr B had declared his monthly expenditure and credit commitments to be £500, and Loans 2 
Go used Mr Bs application and its credit search results to increase that to just under £825 a 
month. Plus, it added an additional figure (around 10%) to act as a margin to allow for 
fluctuations in Mr Bs monthly income or expenditure. After doing all that, Loans 2 Go could 
see that Mr B would be able to afford the £228 each month, because it had calculated Mr B 
had enough disposable income. 
Mr B has summarised his situation in January 2020 and sent us details which are as follows:
Monthly Income :  £1541
Monthly Outgoing Payments: £361 Car Finance, £62 Car Insurance, £50 Phone Bill, £200 
Child Maintenance, £150 Lodge, £200 Fuel Costs, £60 Food
Monthly Creditors -
Parents £200 - For £3000 Loan from December 2019
Credit Cards £70Ive looked at these figures carefully and it would not be reasonable to expect that Loans 2 
Go would have known of, or likely to have discovered, a loan from a family member. As a 
private loan arrangement it would not have been recorded on any credit file and it would 
have been a matter for Mr B whether he informed Loans 2 Go about it or not. And so, I do 
not think I can reasonably include the £200 for the loan repayment. And the child 
maintenance payments are not likely to be an element about which Loans 2 Go would have 
known, or be expected to know, unless Mr B had informed it. 
Mr B has sent to us his credit file dated February 2021 so the records do go back to cover 
the period leading up to Mr B applying for the Loans 2 Go loan. Reviewing it I can see that 
Mr B had some historic adverse credit information or the adverse was added after Mr B had 
already been approved for the Loans 2 Go loan. 
I thought carefully about the two County Court Judgments (CCJ) Mr B had registered on the 
credit file report he sent to us. While a CCJ is not a reason not to lend, it does indicate poor 
money management. But Mr B had already paid these off and they pre-dated Mr Bs 
application to Loans 2 Go. Its likely Loans 2 Go were aware of them: the high cost lending 
market often caters for customers with poor historic adverse credit on their records. So, 
I doubt that it would have been considered a reason to decline Mr Bs application. 
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case and didnt indicate 
that the repayments on the loan were likely to be unsustainable for Mr B. In summary, I dont 
find that Loans 2 Go did anything wrong when it provided this loan to Mr B.
I note that in one of Mr Bs later emails to our adjudicator, he says that he gambled money. 
But as I consider that Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks when the loans was 
advanced, then I would not have expected it to have reviewed his bank statements. So, 
unless Mr B had told Loans 2 Go at the point of application, which I doubt that he did or 
would have done, then its not likely that Loans 2 Go would have known of that. 
I have looked to see if Loans 2 Go has done anything else that I consider having been wrong 
within the context of the lending and I do not think it has. In its FRL Loans 2 Go has 
explained it will help Mr B and that may be in the form of a repayment plan to clear the 
balance owed. I remind Loans 2 Go to approach the debt with a positive and sympathetic 
attitude to assist Mr B. In the circumstances, I have decided that I do not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman