DRN-4247151
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy a claim made under her landlord property insurance policy has been 
declined by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
What happened
Mrs B owns a property which was let out to tenants. She also had a landlord commercial 
property insurance policy with Aviva.
After the tenants departure, Mrs B discovered multiple areas of damage to the property. 
This included water ingress causing damp as a result of a neighbouring wall which had 
collapsed. So, Mrs B contacted Aviva to make a claim.
Following ongoing communication between Mrs B and Aviva, agreement was reached on 
some of the claim, but the damage caused as a result of the collapsed neighbouring wall 
remained declined. So, Mrs B approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied Avivas claim decision was 
fair and reasonable and in line with the policy terms.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has confirmed that the only outstanding claim she wants us to consider is the damp 
and damage which was being caused by the neighbours collapsed wall. There were two 
previous issues which have been resolved. These were Avivas application of 25+ policy 
excesses, and a claim for escape of water damage. Aviva also paid £250 compensation for 
claim delays.
As the complaint about the damage caused by the wall collapse and whether the insurance 
policy should cover it remains in dispute, my final decision will focus on this.
The issue being claimed for by Mrs B is water penetration causing damp to her property as a 
result of a collapsed neighbouring wall. Aviva has declined the claim based on there being 
no evidence of a specific one-off insured event, and they also say there is no wider 
accidental damage cover either due to a policy exclusion.
Mrs Bs insurance policy with Aviva covers a number of specific single one-off unexpected 
events, known as insured events or perils, for example, fire, explosion, malicious acts or 
thefts. The policy also covers the wider event of accidental damage. But there are also 
exclusions which apply to the policy.
The onus is on Mrs B to show an insured event has occurred, and if she can demonstrate 
this, then Aviva needs to consider the claim, unless they can show an exclusion applies 
which means the claim isnt covered.
There has been extensive communication between Mrs B, Aviva, and the various surveyors, 
loss adjusters and experts involved. I dont intend on commenting on every event that 
occurred. I dont mean this as a discourtesy, but the crux of this complaint is relatively 
straightforward and thats what Ill focus my final decision on  has Mrs B shown an insured 
event has occurred, and if she has, has Aviva shown an exclusion applies.
Various inspections and comments have been made about what has caused the water 
penetration resulting in damp to occur following the collapse of the wall. And what caused 
the collapse in the first place. 
But from what Ive seen, I dont think these reports or comments, either from Aviva or Mrs B 
or her surveyor, have conclusively shown a one-off insured event or peril has occurred in 
line with the policy terms. Not least, the date of the collapse isnt known and couldve been at 
any point over an extended period, potentially as long as two years before being discovered 
when the tenant vacated. And its unclear whether it was a single ingress of water which 
caused the damp, or it accumulated over time. Generally, damp does take time to occur, and 
damage occurring gradually isnt covered. And for things like storm damage to be covered, a 
one-off single event of a storm would have needed to cause the damage being claimed for, 
rather than rainfall accumulating over an extended period of time.
In the absence of a clear report confirming an insured one-off event in line with the policy 
terms has caused the water penetration leading to damp, Im not persuaded Mrs B has 
demonstrated a listed one-off insured event under her policy has occurred. So, I dont think 
Aviva acted unfairly here by not accepting the claim for damage.
If Mrs B is able to obtain any further evidence which demonstrates one of the specific 
insured perils under her policy has occurred and caused the damage being claimed for, she 
should submit this to Aviva to consider further.
Along with the specific listed one-off events covered under the policy (which I dont think has 
been shown has occurred), Mrs Bs policy also covers the wider event of accidental damage. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
Accidental damage
Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force.
Mrs B said she thinks the wider accidental damage part of her policy should cover the damp 
as a result of water ingress. However, Aviva has declined to cover the claim under 
accidental damage based on the following exclusion in the policy terms and conditions:Section K
Accidental damage
This extension to cover applies only if it is shown on your schedule.
All other accidental damage to the buildings.
Exclusions
Maintenance and normal redecoration costs.
Damage excluded in Section A.
Damage caused by:
.
Damage caused by water entering the home regardless of how this happened 
(please note  certain water damage is covered under Section A, please refer 
to pages 12 and 13)
So, this exclusion says water entering the home regardless of how this happened is 
excluded under the accidental damage part of Mrs Bs policy. 
Mrs B has argued that this exclusion doesnt apply to her policy. When arguing this, shes 
referred to her policy schedule which outlines:
Accidental Damage  Buildings (Extension to standard policy cover)
This extension to cover applies only if it is shown on the schedule.
All other Accidental damage to the Buildings.
Exclusions:
Maintenance and normal redecoration costs.
Damage excluded in other parts of the Buildings section.
Damage caused by:
a. Wear and tear, settlement, shrinkage, vermin, insects, fungus, weather 
conditions or anything that happens gradually;
b. Faulty materials, design or workmanship;
c. Chewing, scratching, tearing or fouling by domestic animals; 
d. Building renovations, alterations, extensions or repairs; or
e. Paying guests or tenants.
The exclusion of damage caused by paying guests or tenants is deleted in respect of 
Landlords or Holiday Home policies or where it has been declared and a policy has 
been so noted that paying guests and lodgers are received.
Mrs Bs policy was changed to Aviva (by her broker) in 2019, and she says that since then, 
the exclusion Aviva seeks to rely on about water entering the home (outlined above) isnt 
listed on her policy schedule, so she says Aviva cant decline the claim on the basis of this 
exclusion. 
However, whilst it isnt listed individually in the schedule, it is contained in the full policy 
terms and conditions. The endorsement section on the schedule says it is an extension to 
the standard policy cover, not a replacement of it, or that it overrides or deletes all the 
remaining policy terms and conditions and exclusions.
Furthermore, the schedule isnt a document which is designed to be read in isolation, in fact 
the schedule also confirms that it needs to be read alongside the terms and conditions:Endorsements
To be read in conjunction with the policy wording
The schedule is a summary of the policy cover. If as Mrs B argues, the three-page schedule 
is a standalone document confirming all the policy cover and exclusions, it would render the 
accompanying 48-page full policy terms and conditions redundant and would mean a 48-
page schedule would be required instead to capture the same full cover and exclusions.
Also following the logic that Mrs B argues, this would mean that there are no exclusions for 
the buildings or contents parts of the policy, as none are listed in the schedule. However, 
there are numerous exclusions that apply to all different sections of the policy cover, and 
these are also found in the full policy terms  which the schedule says needs to be read in 
conjunction with it.
Our investigator said that if the intention was to include cover for water entering the property 
under accidental damage, despite what the full policy terms said specifically about excluding 
it, she would have expected this to be listed on the schedule in the endorsements confirming 
that exclusion had been deleted. This is exactly what happened on the schedule for the 
deletion of the damage caused by tenants exclusion (as outlined above). And I agree with 
what our investigator said here, that if despite the exclusion in the policy terms, Aviva 
wanted to include it, then I would have expected this to be confirmed. The fact it is silent in 
the schedule about this exclusion doesnt mean that the exclusion is automatically deleted 
from the full policy terms.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by declining this 
part of the claim on the basis a specific insured event hasnt been demonstrated by Mrs B, 
and because there is an applicable exclusion under the wider accidental damage part of the 
policy. Therefore, Im not going to direct Aviva to do anything further in relation to the claim 
for damage or pay any of the invoices Mrs B has provided for works completed or pay any 
further compensation.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman