DRN-1510001
The complaint
Mr D says AIB Group (UK) Plc (trading as First Trust Bank) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001, Mr D took out a loan during a meeting at a branch of First Trust Bank along with a 
PPI policy to protect the loan monthly repayments. He borrowed extra and paid upfront for 
the PPI. So the cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest charged. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagrees. 
Mr Ds main complaint is that he was unaware PPI would be attached to the loan, and the 
cost, terms and benefits of the insurance were never discussed with him. Hes unhappy that 
our adjudicator didn't feel this was a complaint we should uphold even though the original 
paperwork is no longer available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
AIB couldnt provide anything signed by Mr D from the point of sale to show me how he took  
out PPI. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, given how 
long ago this happened, that all the paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably 
expect AIB or Mr D to have kept this. 
And I cant know exactly what was talked about when Mr D arranged his loan with PPI. 
There are no notes of the meeting available now. Ive taken carefully into account what Mr D 
remembers. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect him to recall exactly what was discussed 
at the time. This means that what Mr D says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his complaint. I must take into account all the information Ive got and the wider 
circumstances when deciding what I think is most likely.  
The application Mr D had to fill in to get the loan asked if he wanted PPI or not. So I think he 
wouldve been able to see that PPI was available as an option  and that it was up to him to 
say if he wanted to have it.
And Ive seen an example of agreement that AIB says Mr D wouldve had to sign to get his 
loan. Mr D had to say if he wanted PPI  or if he didn't want PPI. He also had to fill in his 
name on the form if he wanted cover. I think its most likely that a form like this was used when Mr D took out the loan. So I cant 
fairly say that AIB didnt make Mr D aware that PPI was an optional feature, or that he didnt 
sign to take it out, just based on what he remembers now. 
On balance, I think its more likely that AIB made Mr D aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
AIB didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
AIB shouldve given him enough clear information so Mr D could decide for himself if he 
wanted PPI.
Ive taken into account what Mr D told us about his sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to sick pay from his employer - and for longer than Mr D couldve depended on 
getting sick pay from work. PPI couldve covered the loan repayments for the whole 
18 months loan term if Mr D made a successful accident or sickness claim. 
And the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr D lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. Repeat claims were possible after a qualifying period 
back at work. 
Mr D also mentioned having some savings or other insurance that he couldve used to help 
with his monthly outgoings if he wasnt able to work. But I dont know if he wouldve always 
had savings to rely on if he wasn't able to work  and having PPI for his loan monthly 
repayments meant he could keep any savings intact to provide financial security (in what 
mightve been difficult circumstances if hed needed to claim) or to pay for other things.
Its possible some of the information AIB gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He was eligible for the PPI. And although there were some things the policy 
didnt cover, it doesnt look as if that affected Mr D as he was in good health and working in 
full time employment when he took out this loan. 
It looks like the cost of the policy was most likely shown on the loan agreement  along with 
details of the amount of the loan he wanted and information about the monthly repayments 
hed have to pay. So I think Mr D s wouldve understood how much he would need to pay to 
have the PPI. And, from what Ive seen, Mr D hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the 
monthly premiums. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I 
think Mr D still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as the policy 
gave him useful protection in his particular situation. I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
This means I dont find that Mr D has lost out as a result of anything that AIB mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken into account everything Mr D has told us, including comments hes made in 
response to our adjudicators assessment. But these points dont change my conclusion.
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly about this complaint and I understand that what Ive said 
will come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an 
impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman