DRN-4230468
The complaint
Miss B complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
increased her insurance policy excess at renewal and didnt adequately inform her about 
this.
What happened
Miss B made a claim under her Horse and Rider Insurance policy, which is underwritten by 
NFU, in April 2023. At this point, she discovered that her policy excess had increased from 
£145 to £250 at the renewal in November 2022. Miss B says this wasnt sufficiently drawn to 
her attention at the time. She says NFU should have emailed her renewal documents, and 
the follow up letter it sent, in line with her specific communication preference, rather than 
sending it in the post. She says she never received the posted documents. 
NFU says all the renewal documentation was sent to Miss B in the post, as with previous 
years. It says this is the normal process unless a different method of communication is 
specifically requested by the policyholder. And it says Miss B didnt request email 
communication until March 2023.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said NFU 
hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by increasing the excess, or in how it communicated 
this to Miss B.
Miss B didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss B, I agree 
with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
NFU is entitled to review the risks and associated costs of the policy each year at 
renewal, as each renewal is effectively a new contract of insurance. 
NFU says the risk factors that informed the decision to increase the excess included 
Miss Bs horses age, and that she had made previous claims on the policy in 2019 
and 2022. This doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
The change to the excess was clearly stated in the renewal documents which were 
sent to Miss B in September 2022, in advance of the renewal which took place in 
November 2022. And NFU also sent a separate letter to Miss B, also in 
September 2022, specifically highlighting the excess increase. Based on this, Im 
satisfied NFU clearly communicated the change to Miss B in good time, so that she 
could make an informed choice about whether to continue with the renewal.
I appreciate Miss B says she didnt receive the renewal communications or the follow 
up letter. But Ive seen evidence from NFU that these were sent, and they were 
correctly addressed. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold NFU responsible for 
the fact that Miss B didnt receive them in these circumstances.
Miss B feels strongly that NFU ought to have emailed the documents. But the 
evidence available shows that NFU had sent all renewal communications to Miss B in 
the post from the point of inception up to when she requested email communications 
 in March 2023. Ive seen no evidence to support that Miss B requested email 
communications prior to March 2023. 
Taking all of the above into account, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont consider that 
NFU has made an error in the way it communicated the increase in excess, or that it has 
treated Miss B unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman