DRN-3370131
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Chubb European Group SE trading as Combine Insurance because it 
didnt share with him details about any commission received when it sold his policies. 
Mr W brings his complaint through a third-party representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as being made by him personally.   
What happened
This complaint is linked to another complaint that Ive also considered. 
Mr W was sold ten accident policies by Chubb during the 1990s and 2000s. Hed raised 
complaints previously about the alleged mis-sale of some of these policies and they were 
upheld in his favour. As a result, he received back the premiums hed paid, plus interest. 
Because of this, I wont be considering the complaint hes made here for those policies as 
hes already been compensated sufficiently, so it wouldnt be fair for me to consider, or make 
any award against those.
Mr Ws complaint is that when Chubb sold him policies, it didnt disclose that itd received 
commission each time a new policy was set up. He said this created unfair relationships 
between him and Chubb. Mr W asked Chubb for information related to the amount of 
commission it received, however, Chubb didnt respond and so he brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman.
Chubb initially raised concerns about our jurisdiction and whether this was a complaint we 
could consider, given the passage of time thats elapsed. This was addressed by our 
investigator and it was determined this complaint fell within our jurisdiction. Chubb 
accepted our decision and so the investigator moved on to address the complaint.
Chubb was unable to provide any further information about the sale of these policies, 
including any sales paperwork, owing to the length of time between the sales and Mr Ws 
complaint  some of which were around 30 years ago. Because of this, there was no 
information about any commission that may have been paid for the sale of each policy.
Chubb also said there was no legislation, or expectation on it to share this sort of 
information back when it sold policies to Mr W.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint on the basis that there was no persuasive 
evidence to show that commission was paid to Chubb, or even if it were, there was no 
evidence of how much. Our investigator also highlighted that Plevin didnt apply in the 
circumstances because these were stand-alone policies, rather than ones attached to any
finance agreements.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings, in summary, he said;
Chubb sold an excessive number of new policies which further supports his 
argument that it wasnt looking after his best interests, rather it simply wanted to 
continue selling new policies so it could continue collecting commission from each 
new sale and;
The report from the FSA, now the Financial Conduct Authority, outlined concerns it 
had about the poor sales practices and commission incentives which underpinned 
the culture within the sales division of Chubb.
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for this are largely similar to 
those already explained by our investigator. I accept Mr Ws testimony that there were 
documented problems with the performance of Chubb and the way it sold policies 
previously, but Ive not found this evidence to be persuasive because it relates to activities 
that took place after Chubb sold him those policies. So, I dont think itd be fair to apply 
that retrospectively to Mr Ws complaint. And Ill go on to explain why.
The crux of the issue here is that theres no persuasive documentary evidence to show 
whether any commission was paid to Chubb for the sale of his policies. And thats what I 
needed to see so I could reasonably determine whether an unfair relationship had 
occurred. Mr W has made several arguments and submitted a wealth of evidence in an 
attempt to support this, including a report by the FCA, (formerly the FSA), which gave 
commentary on the standards expected of Chubb and its sales representatives. But Im not 
persuaded that any of this evidence successfully demonstrates that a) commission was 
paid for the sale of his policies and b) if it was, how much was paid. And so, I cannot fairly 
say that Chubb received any commission for the sale of each of Mr Ws policies.
Mr W highlighted that each time a representative visited him, advice was given to cancel 
the existing policy and incept a new one. He said this successfully demonstrates that 
Chubb were in effect taking advantage and were motivated by receiving commission for the 
sale of each new policy. He explained this was not in his best interest and would therefore 
be a breach of the Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) principles. I understand the link hes 
making here, but for me to make any decision on that point, Id need to see the sales 
paperwork from that time, including documentary evidence of the advice given. But that 
evidence is not available.
Theres also no evidence of any discussion or advice that may, or may not have been 
given, and no evidence of Mr W having been charged in the process. Chubb highlighted 
that there was also no fiduciary relationship between it and Mr W, or that there was any 
expectation that it should share information related to commission at the time the policies 
were sold. To be clear, had commission been exchanged and there was evidence to 
support the finer detail, I would have recommended it share this information with Mr W. But 
because there isnt any evidence, I cannot make a finding on that point either.
Mr W provided evidence that Chubb was receiving between 100% and up to 120% of the 
premium back as commission. He suggested this was the reason he was sold six policies 
during that time. But the evidence doesnt relate to the timeframe in which his policies were 
sold. And even if it did, it still wouldnt be persuasive enough for me to make a finding as 
theres nothing specific to say that he received advice to cancel his policies or the reasons 
why.There may have been valid reasons for cancelling a policy and taking another, for 
example, he may have decided to incept a new policy with different levels of cover  or 
there could have been changes in his circumstances that could warrant a new policy being 
sold. Nor does the evidence show that the commission percentages applied to the new 
policies he was given. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and Chubb doesnt need to do anything more in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman