DRN-3487543
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) declined her claim under her 
mobile phone insurance for theft.
What happened
Miss A had mobile phone insurance with ERGO. She claimed under her policy because her 
phone was stolen from her bag during a party. Miss A described the circumstances as 
follows:
The party was for around 16 people in her friends house.
Guests were either her friends, or friends of her friend.
Miss A kept her phone inside her handbag on the floor at the side of the sofa where 
she sat.
She only left her seat twice during the party, each time for a few minutes, to use the 
kitchen and the bathroom. Both rooms were adjoining or on the same floor as the 
party.
When she realised her phone was missing, she reported the theft to the police.
ERGO declined Miss As claim because, leaving your device unattended in the company of 
people not well known to you (friends of friends) is not 'reasonable care'.
Miss A didnt think ERGO applied the policy exclusion fairly, so she complained.
Our investigator thought ERGO applied the policy exclusion unfairly in the circumstances, 
and she recommended that ERGO should settle Miss As claim for her stolen mobile phone, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
ERGO didnt agree. It said the claim was declined under the unattended exclusion, rather 
than the reasonable precaution exclusion, although it agreed the two exclusions were 
interlinked.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint and Ill explain why.
I wont comment on every piece of evidence available to me, and our rules dont require me 
to. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Firstly, Ill address ERGOs comment that it declined the claim under the unattended 
exclusion rather than reasonable precaution exclusion. In its claim decision to Miss A, 
ERGO said it declined her claim because leaving her phone unattended is not taking 
reasonable care. Im satisfied ERGO relied on both parts of the policy exclusion.
The key issue is that Miss A doesnt think it was fair that ERGO declined her claim for the 
theft of her phone. ERGO said it declined the claim in line with the policy.
The relevant part of the policy is as follows:
We will not pay for:
4. any claims where you have failed to take all reasonable precautions to prevent 
damage, theft or loss. This will include, but not limited to:
b. if left unattended in a vehicle or premises, you are to ensure that the gadget is out 
of sight and that all locks and security devices are actioned
The policy defines unattended as:
24. where you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere where you cant see it but 
others can and it is at risk of being lost, stolen or damaged. For example  in a 
restaurant or a pub where you go to the toilet or bar leaving your gadget on a table 
instead of taking it with you.
I dont think theres any dispute that Miss A left her phone unattended. But I dont think 
ERGO treated Miss A fairly by declining her claim under this exclusion. Thats because the 
policy definition implies the exclusion applies to public places, where someone has left their 
phone in sight and easy to take, perhaps without being noticed. Miss As circumstances are 
quite different:
The phone was zipped up in her handbag, therefore out of sight.
The handbag was on the floor at the side of a sofa, rather than left on a table or seat.
The party was at a private house.
She knew, or knew of, all the small group of guests.
When considering these circumstances, I dont think Miss A believed she was taking a risk. 
She could reasonably have expected to safely leave her bag unattended but with people she 
knew, briefly, while she used the bathroom or went to fetch a drink. The person who took her 
phone wouldve had to reach for her handbag, open it, take the phone out, and return the 
bag, none of which reflects the type of scenario given in the policy definition.
Simply put, I think its fair to say Miss A didnt think she was placing her phone at risk of theft 
by leaving her bag unattended briefly in her friends home.
In the absence of any evidence of recklessness on her part, I think ERGO has treated Miss 
A unfairly by declining her claim under the unattended and reasonable precautions 
exclusion.
Therefore, to put matters right, I think its fair to require ERGO to reconsider Miss As claim 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint and 
ERGO Reiseversicherung AG must:reconsider Miss As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman