DRN-4417987
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about a claim they made on their Euroins AD (Euroins) travel 
insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs J say that Euroins treated them unfairly by only paying part of their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J made a claim on their Euroins travel insurance policy for a cancelled trip for 
them and three other travellers. Mrs J said shed paid for the entire trip, including the cost of 
the flights and accommodation of the other travellers, that they hadnt reimbursed her for this 
amount, nor were they covered by any other insurance policies. As such she was looking to 
claim back the cost of the whole trip.
Euroins considered Mr and Mrs Js claim but only reimbursed two thirds of the sums 
claimed. They said this was because the policy only provides cover for the proportionate 
costs of the persons insured, so the payment they were prepared to offer was only for Mr 
and Mrs J and not the other three travellers. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs J referred their complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said the 
policy provides cover for cancellation and curtailment claims up to the amount specified in 
the policy summary for the unused portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you 
have paid or contracted to pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full 
refund. This coupled with the evidence shed seen to support that Mrs J paid for the trip and 
hadnt received contributions from the other travellers led her to conclude that the policy did 
extend to the losses Mrs J was claiming for. As such she directed Euroins to pay the claim in 
full in line with the remaining policy terms as well as interest at 8% from the date Euroins 
paid for part of the claim until the date of settlement.
Mr and Mrs J accepted the investigators view, but Euroins didnt. They said:
The costs claimed for five travellers were individually priced in terms of flights and the 
accommodation booked was for two separate rooms. As such the claim didnt relate to 
unused accommodation and flights by them because the booking wasnt for the cost of a 
villa for example, which would have been a cost applicable to the entire booking.
The investigators conclusion means that they would be expected to pay a claim for 
medical expenses for uninsured travellers if Mrs J had paid for those herself.
Theres no evidence to support whether the other three passengers had separate travel 
insurance they could have made a successful claim on. 
The policy term the investigator has quoted refers to your travel and accommodation 
costs, so this means the policyholders portion of the trip- i.e. Mr and Mrs Js and not 
those of the other three travellers.
Because Euroins didnt agree with the investigators view, the matter has been passed to me 
to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover all persons named on the certificate of 
insurance for whom the premium has been paid. In this case, Mr and Mrs J were named on 
the certificate of insurance so they were covered by the policy. 
Under the cancellation and curtailment section of cover, the policy states:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused portion of 
your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to pay and you suffer 
a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel before the start of your trip 
or cut your trip short and return home early during the period of insurance because of the 
following:
1. the death, bodily injury, or illness of you, your travel companion, a close relative or 
any other person you have arranged to stay with during your trip;
In this case the trip was cancelled because Mrs J was ill. Euroins relies on the references to 
you and your in the term Ive quoted above to support the fact that the unused portion of 
the trip only relates to Mr and Mrs Js financial loss and not those of the other three 
passengers. Ive considered this but I dont think the term is sufficiently clear where Mrs J 
has suffered a loss for the entire trip and any ambiguity in the policy terms is interpreted in 
Mrs Js favour. So in the absence of anything specific in the policy terms to confirm that the 
cover only applies to Mr and Mrs Js portion or share of the costs even if Mrs J paid for the 
entire holiday, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to interpret it this way.
In this case Im satisfied that Mrs J did pay for the entire trip without reimbursement. She 
paid for her two daughters and their friend to take them away together. The evidence shes 
supplied supports this and Ive seen nothing to suggest she was being reimbursed for any of 
it. As such I take the view that Euroins were wrong to decline the claim in the way that they 
did. 
But I also take on board the points that Euroins have made. Like the investigator I dont think 
upholding this complaint informs the outcome of any complaint for medical expenses for an 
uninsured traveller where Mrs J paid for their costs. Thats not the complaint Im considering 
here so its not the same issue. I do however take Euroins point that they havent been 
provided with evidence to support whether the other three passengers had separate travel 
insurance they could have made a successful claim on. 
Mr and Mrs J have said that their daughters and their friend couldnt have made a successful 
claim on any other travel insurance policy held in their respective names because the loss 
they would have been claiming for wasnt their own- it was hers. I take this on board but its 
unclear whether they had any other travel insurance policies in place and if so whether they 
claimed on them. We wouldnt expect Euroins to pay out a claim which is covered by an alternative policy. As such Ive set out how they should put things right below which is 
subject to the other three travellers providing the information Ive referred to below.  
Putting things right
Euroins should pay Mr and Mrs Js claim in full in line with the remaining policy terms as well 
as interest at 8% per year simple from the time they reimbursed part of Mr and Mrs Js claim 
until the remainder is paid.
This is subject to Euroins either receiving written confirmation from the other three 
passengers that they either had no other insurance policies in place that would cover them 
for this situation or if they did, a letter from their respective travel insurers confirming their 
claims had been declined.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Euroins AD and 
direct them to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman