DRN-3567679
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) keep flagging payment for fraud checks and closed 
his account. He would like  compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate the inconvenient to Mr A of TSB blocking some payments for fraud 
checks, but these checks are to protect both Mr A and the bank. I cant  say TSB was 
at fault to do this as it seems to me to have followed its terms and conditions. 
I understand Mr A found it particularly difficult to resolve blocked payments as his 
phone calls to TSB kept on being dropped. TSBs has told us no other customers 
have complained about this  that doesnt necessarily mean other customers havent 
had the same problem. But even though Mr T has given some information from his 
network provider that coverage in his areas is good it may still have been a problem 
with his phone, signal, or network. However, as TSB hasnt identified an issue it 
could address and as it doesnt seem to have impacted on other customers, I dont 
think its reasonable to expect TSB to compensate Mr A for this.
With regard to TSBs decision to close Mr As account I have looked at its terms and 
conditions which it can end its agreement with two months notice if a customer has 
another bank account in the UK providing basic banking services which Mr A has. As 
TSB gave Mr A the appropriate two months notice of closure, I cant see that it has 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
