DRN-3476900
The complaint
Mr A complained about Lloyds Bank PLCs service.
What happened
Mr A made a number of complaints to Lloyds over a period of several months. He told us a 
number of matters had been settled but some remained. 
Mr As initial complaint was made in late 2020. As part of a switch process Mr A says he was 
completely devastated to receive a letter by surface mail from Lloyds as he considered he 
had indicated sufficiently that he wanted a fully paperless service.
Mr As complaint
Mr A told us he was completely devastated to receive a letter from Lloyds in respect of an 
account switch. He says it made him feel betrayed and misled. Mr A told us he was drawn to 
Lloyds as they offered a fully paper-free service. Mr A says he and his family consider 
environmentalism to be the equivalent to a religion for them. He said he carefully made sure 
all his settings were set as paper-free; albeit he acknowledged Lloyds would need to send 
him the new account card physically. 
For completeness Mr A also says he had been a customer of Lloyds for around 20 years and 
he says this means some setting preferences were set some time after his accounts had 
been started but before the current version of the Lloyds app that he uses. Mr A sent us a 
screen shot to demonstrate his various accounts were set for online statements and 
correspondence and showed his status was shown as fully paper-free.
Mr A told us that although he considered hed worked through some matters with Lloyds he 
still had three points that he remained unhappy about. I have summarised these points 
below. Overall Mr A says he felt representatives, played the issues down and left him 
depressed and devastated.
Point One: 
Mr A remains unhappy with the way he was spoken to by a Lloyds representative in a 
specific call. He referred to the representative refusing to agree the Lloyds app was 
misleading; and Mr A drew attention to the time just before 9 minutes into the conversation. 
Mr A considers the representative was rude and lost his temper at this point. Mr A considers 
both of them raised their voices and were frustrated.
Mr A suggested to this service that the representative ought to have been able to hold his 
nerve and behave professionally and Mr A says this would have enabled the conversation 
to have continued reasonably.
Mr A went on to tell us that he had been so deeply offended when the representative made 
comments he characterises as snappy, snarky, he was caused to become extremely 
offended.
Mr A said that it was after some minutes of argument, he considered the representative 
made it clear the representative endorsed customers being treated differently based on age. 
Mr A told us he considered this deplorable and to be a sin that Lloyds ought to be expected 
to challenge. Mr A said the call was traumatic and left him extremely shaken and emotionally 
drained for days afterwards. 
Mr A said Lloyds ought to be required to pay him £250 compensation for the distress and 
offence caused and he wanted a written apology from the Lloyds representative.
Point two:
Mr A says a Lloyds representative didnt agree his data request hadnt been properly raised 
and they ought to have done. 
The error in respect of the data request, caused Mr A to receive a surface mail letter which 
he describes as being thick with paper forms asking him to clarify his request. Mr A referred 
to his wife being in tears on several occasions when she saw paper on the table from Lloyds. 
Mr A told us it contained at least 8 A4 pages.
Mr A considers it bizarre that the representative denied there had been an error, despite 
quoting  his request accurately in correspondence to him.
Mr A says Lloyds ought to be required to pay him £250 compensation for the distress and 
offence caused.
Point three:
The same representative as referred to in point two, disputed the Lloyds app was misleading 
when it came to the paperless settings.
Mr A referred to the information contained in the response to him, but said the information 
failed to acknowledge that some customers would not see the message appearing when 
selecting the paper-free option on the app. Mr A says this is because some accounts will 
have been set up prior to this version of the app with this message. Mr A says that because 
he didnt need to change his settings to paper-less, as they were already set up as such, he 
didnt see the relevant notification, and the representative failed to acknowledge this in her 
letter.
Mr A says he has been placed in the position of being told his accounts are paper-free but 
without any caveat or notification to suggest otherwise being available for him to see on the 
app. Mr A considers this is a mis-leading situation to be in, and has led him to feel violated 
and devastated due to his commitment to the environment. Mr A suggests Lloyds ought to 
consider adding information on the standard screen on the app if their commitment to a 
paper-less service is genuine.
Mr A says Lloyds ought to pay him £1,000 compensation for misleading and betraying him. 
He considers the amount ought to be increased to reflect his extreme emotional distress akin 
to insulting his religious beliefs and he wants a written apology from Lloyds.
Summary of Lloyds responses to Mr As complaints
November 2020Lloyds initially declined Mr As complaint in respect of sending him surface mail post. They 
apologised hed received mail in the post. And told him that when selecting paperless 
correspondence, they make all customers aware that from time to time some important 
letters must be sent by mail, this includes letters regarding an account switch. They went on 
to note that he had made a data subject access request; and confirmed this had been 
submitted and hed receive this via email.
December 2020 
Lloyds agreed with the part of Mr As complaint relating to the information on their mobile 
app. Lloyds accepted they had initially closed the complaint incorrectly, and that the 
explanation hed initially received had been insufficient.
In respect of Mr As further points of complaint, Lloyds did not uphold these, they were in 
respect of complaints about:
 The previous representative had been rude and ageist towards Mr A
 The Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) was completed incorrectly
 The initial letter regarding his complaint didnt include the Financial Ombudsman Service 
(FOS) leaflet
 The previous representative refused to put Mr A in touch with his manager
Lloyds explained why they didnt accept these areas of complaint. The latter two points are 
not pursued.
Lloyds apologised and said they wanted to make an offer for where they hadnt got things 
right of £150. Lloyds acknowledged Mr A had said this was insufficient, but indicated the 
offer remained open. Lloyds also indicated they had taken his feedback on board and 
passed it on to the team responsible for the wording in relation to the paper-free option on 
the mobile app. 
Lloyds went on to set out the information the representative had been given by this team; in 
summary around what the current wording on the disclaimer part says, once paper-free is 
selected.
Lloyds didnt accept the representative complained about, had been rude. They went on to 
say they considered Mr A had raised his voice and made personal comments about the 
representative. As such they asked Mr A to be respectful in his dealings with them and noted 
their representatives are not expected to deal with any customer who is exhibiting abusive, 
threatening, or offensive behaviour.
Lloyds didnt accept they had been wrong to ask Mr A to clarify his data request; albeit they 
acknowledged this had been done in surface mail format rather than email.
January 2021
Lloyds thanked Mr A for speaking to them about the service-related issues hed encountered 
in relation to his recent data request. They apologised and upheld the complaint. 
As a consequence, they said they were arranging a payment of £350 in total to Mr A. Lloyds 
said they ought to have provided better service and ought to have got this right first time. 
The £350 comprised of the original offer from December 2020 of £150 and a further £200.
Lloyds concluded they had failed to correctly process Mr As most recent data request. This 
resulted in Mr A having to make further contact.Lloyds acknowledged Mr A had made them aware of further correspondence being sent to 
his home address which had been the initial cause of his concerns. Lloyds accepted that had 
the full correct information been added to the original request, this wouldnt have happened.  
They apologised their service had fallen short and confirmed their representative had 
highlighted Mr As feedback and concerns to their products team for future consideration 
with regards to the wording of the Go fully paper-free option within the mobile app.
February 2021
Lloyds acknowledged Mr A hadnt been sent all call recordings and matters hadnt been 
properly administered so they were providing a further compensation sum of £200.
Mr A
Mr A didnt think Lloyds had done enough and he came to this service.
Investigators view
An investigator at this service looked into Mr As complaint. She explained our usual starting 
point where things go wrong, is to look at a business putting someone back in the position 
(or as close as possible) to that they would be in, had the error not been made; we also 
consider whether the business ought to be required to do anything further.
The investigator agreed Lloyds had made errors, and she indicated where she thought they 
had failed or where they could have done things better. Overall, she thought Lloyds had 
acknowledged these areas and their offers had been sufficient.
Mr As response to view 
Mr A told the investigator he didnt think she had considered his complaint correctly and he 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
Provisional decision
On 28 April 2022 I issued a provisional decision, not because I disagreed with the overall 
thinking of the investigator, but I had some additional thinking and one area in which I invited 
clarification.
In the decision I set out that I didnt intend to uphold Mr As complaint. I thought Lloyds had 
accurately identified where they failed to do things as they ought to have done, or where 
they could have done things better. And taken overall I concluded Lloyds had offered 
enough to reflect the circumstances and impact.
I invited any clarification in respect of my understanding that Mr A had already been paid the 
total sum of £550 offered by Lloyds, in addition to £14 to represent costs.
Mr A hasnt replied to my provisional decision. Lloyds replied and accepted my decision. 
They have confirmed the sums paid to Mr A and when this happened (the total of £550 was 
paid in January and February 2021 and £14 in the autumn of 2020).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking set out in my provisional decision. Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. Here, Lloyds accurately identified where they failed to do things as they ought to 
have done, or where they could have done things better. Overall I think Lloyds offered 
enough to reflect the circumstances and impact here. I understand these sums, (£550 in 
total plus the £14 costs Mr A claimed) were all paid to Mr A some time ago.
Lloyds have apologised in their responses to Mr A and assured him they have passed their 
feedback on to the relevant team about how Mr A thinks their information on paper-less 
options could be better displayed and explained. This was appropriate.
Mr A didnt suggest he suffered a financial loss, but he referred to experiencing substantial 
distress and a personal impact.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account everything that has been provided. 
I have in particular considered the three points Mr A stressed.
Point One: Mr A remains unhappy with the way he was spoken to by a Lloyds representative 
in a specific call
Lloyds accepted the clarity of the communication in this call could have been better. I have 
listened to the call with care, and particularly around the time in the call Mr A drew attention 
to. 
I dont conclude Mr A was treated rudely or unprofessionally. Mr As manner, language and 
tone might fairly be described as directory and challenging, and at times aggressive. Whilst 
the Lloyds representative remained polite and generally professional. It was Mr A who spoke 
over the representative at the time of the call, I was referred to and told the representative 
(who had not raised his voice), not to raise his voice. Mr A went on to say, how dare you try 
and argue with me. 
Mr A then raised a hypothetical scenario based around an individual being aged 85, the 
representative accurately commented that Mr A was not aged 85. Mr A then went on to raise 
his voice and accuse the representative of being discriminatory by treating him differently.
I dont conclude that the customer service and behaviour of the representative fell below a 
reasonable standard, particularly in the very challenging circumstances of Mr As approach 
to the conversation.
Point two: Mr A says a Lloyds representative didnt agree his data request hadnt been 
properly raised 
It appears in December 2020 a representative from Lloyds didnt fully accept Mr As data 
request had been properly raised. Lloyds went on to apologise to Mr A and acknowledged 
that his request and the manner in which it was dealt with, had been flawed in a number of 
ways. I think they also made financial offers to reflect their errors and the impact of these 
errors. I conclude Lloyds offers were sufficient here.
Point three: The same representative as referred to in point two, also disputed the Lloyds 
app was misleading when it came to the paperless settings
I dont conclude Lloyds did anything wrong here. Lloyds have fairly acknowledged Mr As 
view on this matter and let him know his feedback has been taken on board.In reflecting on what happened here, my understanding is that Mr As complaint first started 
when he switched an account from another provider to Lloyds. As such Mr A accepted, he 
would receive a new card by surface mail, but he was made unhappy when he received 
surface mail in respect of the account switch. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, it isnt entirely clear to me whether Mr A would or 
would not have seen the disclaimer that has been referred to when setting up his new 
account (from the switch); his other accounts with Lloyds were already set to the paper-free 
option. It appears the paperwork Mr A was sent in respect of the switch by surface mail, was 
in respect of the new account. 
Based on my understanding of Lloyds paper-free option in general terms, the option doesnt 
guarantee there wont be some communications that will be sent via surface mail. There is 
information available on this, on their website and as part of their account terms.
Lloyds have explained that when selecting the paperless option on the app there is a 
message that has been described as a disclaimer available. I appreciate Mr A wasnt 
originally happy with the sufficiency of this, and in particular in respect of customers who had 
already selected paper-free options before using this version of the app. Mr A says such 
customers (like himself) dont then get to see the disclaimer Lloyds referred to when he 
initially complained. 
I explained in my provisional decision that I dont think this detail is part of this complaint, so I 
have not been required to make any finding about what information would have been made 
available at the times Mr A made previous paper-free preference selections for his 
account(s).
It doesnt appear to me the thrust of Point three of Mr As complaint is about Lloyds paper-
free offering. It appears to me the main thrust is that the specific Lloyds representative 
wouldnt accept his characterisation of what was displayed to him as being misleading.
I dont think Lloyds accept their information is or was misleading, so I dont conclude the 
representative was wrong not to have accepted this from Mr A. Lloyds acknowledged what 
Mr A says about the information and how it is displayed and how Mr A feels about this; and 
they say this had been fed back. This was appropriate. 
I understand Mr A considers what he saw was misleading, but I dont think the 
representative was wrong not to agree it was misleading. Theres nothing that leads me to 
conclude Lloyds deliberately misled Mr A, or that they ought to have done something 
differently. Lloyds accepted their service fell short of what they ought to have done overall, 
and I think they accurately identified the areas to which they considered their thinking 
applied, and that was sufficient here. Should Mr A have any wider concerns about the 
offering made by Lloyds, these might be more appropriately directed to the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Other matters
For completeness, Mr A suggested that he felt Lloyds representatives minimised his 
concerns. Having considered how Lloyds dealt with Mr A throughout, whilst the service was 
not what it ought to have been, I think Lloyds representatives were respectful in their 
treatment of Mr A, his concerns were heard, responded to and reasons provided. I accept 
Lloyds did identify accurately where things were not done as they ought to have been, and 
the redress paid was sufficient here.My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr As complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC in the 
circumstances. I accept Lloyds have recognised where things went wrong or ought to have 
been done better, and have appropriately addressed these already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman