DRN-2886472
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc gave her incorrect information about porting and 
unfairly applied an early repayment charge (ERC). She asks that the ERC and her brokers 
fee is refunded.
What happened
Mrs C took out a joint mortgage in 2018. She separated from her partner in 2019 and put the 
property up for sale as she couldnt afford the mortgage payments on her own.
Mrs C contacted Santander to ask about porting her mortgage to a more affordable property. 
Santander said shed need to port her mortgage to a new property within three months of 
completing her sale. It didnt tell her there was a six-months time limit when the purchase is 
of a new build property, as was the case here.
Mrs C took mortgage advice from a broker. The broker recommended the same mortgage 
she had with Santander. Mrs C took out a mortgage of a smaller amount and ported her 
product. Santander refunded part of the ERC. Mrs C says the ERC is unfair as she had to 
sell the property through no fault of her own.
Our investigator said Santander made an error when it said Mrs C had to port her mortgage 
within three months. This didnt affect the ERC that was payable, or the reason the property 
had to be sold. And Mrs C had told Santander she was using a broker before it made the 
error. Santander offered £75 for the error, and our investigator said this was fair.
Our investigator said we cant look into Mrs Cs complaint that when she was struggling to 
make payments Santander didnt offer options that wouldnt affect her credit file. This was 
because she hadnt raised this with Santander.
Mrs C didnt agree. She still felt the ERC was applied unfairly and Santander hadnt offered 
help with her mortgage payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C described the events that led to her separating from her partner and selling the 
property. Im sorry for the upsetting circumstances she describes. I understand why she says 
the property had to be sold through no fault of her own. And why she feels its unfair that she 
had to pay an ERC.
Mrs C and her ex-partner took out a mortgage with a fixed interest rate product. This 
included an ERC if the mortgage was repaid before October 2020. This was clearly set out in 
the mortgage offer. Mrs C agreed to the terms of the mortgage, including the ERC, when she 
took out the mortgage with the fixed interest rate product.
The mortgage was repaid in December 2019 and Santander applied the ERC of about 
£12,000. Santander refunded part of the ERC, about £5,000, when Mrs C took out a smaller 
loan and ported the product to a new property in August 2020. 
Having considered what happened here, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to refund the rest of the ERC or pay further compensation. Ive explained why 
below. 
I think Santander was entitled under the mortgage terms and conditions to apply the ERC 
when Mrs C repaid the loan. It refunded part of this when she took out a smaller mortgage 
and ported the product. This is consistent with its policy and what it had told Mrs C would 
happen.
Santander told Mrs C in September 2019 that she had to port her product within three 
months of repaying her mortgage to receive an ERC refund. In fact, Mrs C intended to buy a 
new build property and Santander had a six-months time limit for this. Santander accepts it 
should have told Mrs C this. However, I dont think this made a difference to the outcome. 
Mrs C had already told Santander she was using a broker. Mrs C went on to make a 
successful porting application and buy the property she wanted. Santander paid £75 for the 
upset caused by its error, and I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs C took mortgage advice from, and paid a fee to, a broker. The broker recommended she 
stay with Santander and made a porting application on her behalf. Santander had told Mrs C 
it would consider an application from her. It was Mrs Cs choice to use a broker. I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require Santander to compensate her for the brokers fee. 
I cant look into the arrangements between Mrs C and her ex-partner about mortgage 
payments or how the equity in their property was divided when the property was sold. And I 
cant look into Mrs Cs complaint about the support offered by Santander in mid to late 2019 
because Mrs C hadnt raised this with Santander and given it chance to respond. I do 
appreciate though that the situation Mrs C found herself in was upsetting and worrying. 
I sympathise with Mrs C. I understand why she felt she had no option but to sell the property, 
and that shed have had more money available for her purchase if Santander had waived the 
ERC. I dont think that this makes it fair and reasonable to require Santander to refund the 
remaining ERC. I think Santander was entitled to apply the ERC  which Mrs C agreed to 
when she took out the mortgage  and I dont think it was unfair to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I find the compensation paid by 
Santander UK Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman