DRN-1748001
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy with the compensation Santander Cards UK Limited (Santander) has 
offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
sold alongside a store card account.  
What happened
Ms I opened her store card account in November 2005 and at the same time bought a PPI 
policy associated with the account. The final premium for the PPI was added to the account 
in September 2006.
Ms I has now complained the PPI was mis-sold. Santander has agreed to uphold the 
complaint and offered to pay  some compensation. Santander had some records about 
Ms Is account which show the PPI premiums in total came to £12.58.
Santander has offered to refund the total premiums paid plus any interest they would have 
caused on the account and also pay some compensatory interest to Ms I for being out of 
pocket. The total offer was £25.83 after tax was taken off the compensatory interest. 
Ms I is not happy with the amount of compensation offered as she says it should be more. 
She hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support why she paid more for the PPI but 
doesnt think Santander has fully investigated her complaint.
Ms I brought her complaint to this service and our adjudicator said what Santander had 
offered was fair. 
Ms I remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to uphold Ms Is complaint and pay her compensation for the PPI that 
was mis-sold.so, in this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at 
whether what has been offered in compensation is fair. I think it is and I shall explain why.
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out 
what was paid for the PPI in premiums and any card rate interest caused by those premiums 
being added to the account balance. The business also has to work out compensatory 
interest on any amounts the consumer was out of pocket for the PPI costs from the date any 
payments were made to the date of repayment of the costs of the PPI. 
That is what Santander has done in this case. 
Santander doesnt have full statement records for the account from when it was opened. 
What it does have are some computer records about the account. These show some totals 
that were on the account including the total cost of the PPI that was ever charged, and that was £12.58. These also show that the credit limit was £150, the total ever spent on the 
account was £158.00 and the total interest charged on everything was £18.64. I have seen 
nothing to show these total figures are not accurate.
The records also show that the account was applied for and opened in November 2005. So, 
the first PPI premium would have been charged in December that year. The records also 
show the last PPI premium was added to the account in September 2006 and this was for 
£0.51p.  
I have seen no evidence to show that more than £12.58 was charged in premiums whilst the 
PPI was active on the account. The amount of premiums seems a realistic total taking into 
the account the total that was spent. And the amount of interest caused by the premiums 
also seems reasonable looking at the total interest on everything that was charged to the 
store card account. The compensatory interest is also correct for the time Ms I was out of 
pocket for the PPI costs.
Although Ms I thinks more compensation is due, I have seen nothing to show she was 
charged any more for PPI on this particular store card than what has been offered in the 
compensation. 
Based on all the evidence I have seen I think what Santander has worked out as the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that Santander Cards UK PLC has offered to Ms I to settle her complaint is fair. So I am 
not upholding the complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman