DRN-3679203
The complaint
Mr W has complained, on behalf of the estate of the late Ms W, about the annuity that Ms W 
established in 2020. Mr W has said that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wont make any 
payments beyond the five year guarantee period, and that the underwriting it undertook was 
based upon incorrect or insufficient medical information.
What happened
Ms W was a member of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) and, in 2019, the scheme 
administrator provided her with a cash equivalent transfer value for her scheme benefits. Ms 
W contacted a firm of financial advisers which had been engaged by the scheme 
administrator to provide advice.
As a result, Ms W was advised to transfer her OPS benefits to Aviva and buy an annuity, the 
first payment of which was made in February 2020. Ms W sadly died in July 2021, at which 
point Aviva informed Mr W that the annuity payments would continue for the remainder of 
the five year guarantee period which had been selected.
This effectively meant that the annuity, combined with the tax free cash, would have paid out 
around £100,000 less that the transfer value used to buy it.
Mr W complained to both Aviva and the financial adviser, and the latter is being dealt with 
separately. Aviva responded to Mr W, saying that the options for Ms Ws annuity should 
have been discussed between her and the financial adviser, and that it wouldnt have given 
advice on which options to choose.
It also said that Ms W had disclosed her full health and lifestyle information to it and so it 
would have been aware of her medical conditions. It confirmed that this had been taken into 
account in calculating the annuity income.
But it said that it had asked its underwriting team to assess the information again, and it had 
confirmed that it was happy with the level of income enhancement which was applied.
As such, Aviva declined to uphold the complaint. In response, Mr W said that, as Ms Ws full 
medical information was disclosed, Aviva should have highlighted to the financial adviser 
that the annuity wasnt suitable. Aviva in turn said that, had its underwriters identified that Ms 
W had a life expectancy of under a year, it would have brought this to the financial advisers 
attention as this could impact on financial decision making.
However, Aviva said, this wasnt the conclusion that its underwriters reached on the basis of 
the medical information provided. It remained of the view that the annuity was fair based on 
Ms Ws disclosed medical conditions, its underwriting and its pricing model.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr W referred the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, 
saying the following in summary.
He noted that, as the annuity provider, Aviva needed to implement the instructions from Ms 
W and her financial adviser as to how to establish the annuity  in this case, on a single life 
basis, with 3% escalation and a five year guarantee period. The annuity had also been 
enhanced due to Ms Ws medical conditions.
The investigator noted Mr Ws concern as to whether Aviva had underwritten Ms Ws specific 
medical condition correctly  this had been described in the key facts documentation as 
hepatitis, whereas Ms Ws actual condition was autoimmune hepatitis. Mr W had explained 
to the investigator that they were every different medical conditions, and had also said that 
Ms Ws GP had received no request for her medical records before underwriting the annuity.
And so the investigator asked Aviva to clarify its underwriting process and it confirmed (with 
supporting evidence from a screenshot) that the underwriting had been based on 
autoimmune hepatitis, and that the key features document had limitations on its wording  
hence why this simply recorded hepatitis.
The investigator also noted that Aviva had explained that it only wrote to GPs in a sample of 
cases and this isnt something it would do automatically for each one.
Mr W disagreed, however, saying that an internet search had revealed that autoimmune 
hepatitis wasnt included as a qualifying condition for an enhanced annuity. Ms W had also 
declared that she was a smoker, and had several other conditions, two of which were known 
side effects of the medications prescribed for the immune suppressants she was taking.
Mr W also set out further details of Ms Ws health condition, which had been diagnosed in 
2010, and had been monitored regularly since to enable constant adjustment of her 
medication.
Aviva had been negligent in not seeking further advice from Ms Ws medical team, Mr W 
said. This had resulted in it clearly not being aware of the extent of her declared illness. On 
that basis, he challenged Avivas statement that it couldnt be predicted as to when someone 
might pass away. And the information available regarding autoimmune hepatitis ought to 
have made it clear that the life expectancy of someone with that condition wouldnt even be 
close to that of a healthy individual, Mr W added.
Mr W further said that thered been an overall uplift of 31.8% on a standard annuity, but 
there could have been no enhancement for autoimmune hepatitis as, according to a Which 
report on enhanced annuities, diabetes alone attracted a 30% enhancement and being 
overweight accounted for a further 10-15%. There was no recorded allowance for being a 
smoker, Mr W noted.
Although Aviva wasnt regulated to give financial or medical advice, it nevertheless needed 
to undertake due diligence and provide best advice, along with a product which suited its 
customer. The life expectancy assumption and calculation wasnt only flawed, Mr W said, but 
also discriminated against severe and chronic health conditions which were known to be 
irreversible.
Mr W further added that although Aviva had differentiated between types one and two 
diabetes, it hadnt evaluated the stage of Ms Ws autoimmune hepatitis. But this was a 
primary factor in determining the life expectancy of a patient, and could only be confirmed by 
a qualified medical practitioner or consultant.
When Aviva assessed the medical questionnaire, it may have included autoimmune 
hepatitis, but there was no reference to the type or overlap symptoms, Mr W said. And 
although Aviva said that it would assess the medical information and, if needed, contact a medical professional on any areas that fall outside the usual conditions which are considered 
for an enhanced annuity, autoimmune hepatitis didnt fall within that list. It was a stand-alone 
chronic illness.
Further, Mr W said, although Aviva would request a doctors report on a random basis rather 
than on the basis of the medical information provider by the applicant, there was conflicting 
information in the key facts documentation. It included a section listing the health and 
lifestyle factors which would affect an annuity, and that a doctors report would be requested 
if necessary indicated to Mr W that medical conditions would be assessed with due 
diligence.
However, further detail in the key features documentation revealed that the true purpose of 
providing medical information was to check whether the information provided by the 
policyholder was correct  not to determine the effect on life expectancy. And this further 
implies that any random sampling would occur after the annuity was in place, Mr W said.
Although Aviva had asserted that, had it identified that Ms Ws life expectancy to be less 
than a year, it would have reverted to the financial adviser to ensure that decisions were 
being on this basis, this was never going to happen as the random sampling of GP records 
was only undertaken after the annuity had started.
Mr W was therefore of the view that Aviva should revisit its underwriting decision based upon 
a report from either Ms Ws GP or consultant, as per its stated working practice, and offer 
full remediation for what he considered to have been its negligent actions in not requesting 
full medical information from Ms Ws doctor prior to the annuity starting.
As agreements not been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly say that I fully understand Mr Ws depth of feeling on this matter, and his concerns 
about it will have compounded an already extremely difficult time for him. And Id offer my 
sincere condolences for the loss of Ms W.
The genesis of Mr Ws concerns is what he considers to be the mishandling of Ms Ws 
pension arrangements by two parties, although as Ive noted above, the complaint against 
the financial adviser is being dealt with separately. 
And on the face of it, I agree that the exchange of around £162,000 of pension fund for an 
overall return of approximately £60,000 will be, to say the least, disappointing  and as Ive 
said above, make an already difficult situation harder still.
I dont think I need to labour the point of the purpose and principles of annuities  I think Mr 
W is aware that the principle of cross subsidisation occurs in such markets, in that some 
annuitants will outlive life expectancies, whilst others wont, but that one might reasonably 
balance out the other.
That said, the ostensible imbalance here in terms of the amount paid for the actual return is 
nonetheless striking. And it might then be tempting to conclude that this must be the result of 
some kind of error on the part of  in this case  the annuity provider.
So I have to determine whether this has been the case here. But having considered the available evidence in this case, and whilst I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr 
W, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I think there are two keys issues here  the first whether Aviva should have sought Ms Ws 
full medical records; and then, if it could fairly and reasonably be concluded that it didnt 
have such an obligation, whether the annuity offered by Aviva was reasonable given what it 
knew about Ms Ws health situation.
So to address the first of these, and without wishing to seem unnecessarily critical of either 
Mr or Ms W, or the financial adviser (as Ive said, Im not considering that complaint here), 
the medical questionnaire was the opportunity to provide the relevant details of Ms Ws 
condition. And whilst there may not have been specific sections relating to life expectancy, 
any complicating factors relating to autoimmune hepatitis, and a detailed history of Ms W 
health since 2010, I think this is something which could have been provided if it was deemed 
necessary. 
The medical questionnaire requested than the applicant describe as much information as 
possible about their health before signing the form. And had either Ms W or the financial 
adviser considered it prudent for Aviva to have contacted the GP for a full medical history 
because they didnt think the answers given in the questionnaire would provide the full 
picture, it was open to them to request this.
But I think the important point here is that the form clearly set out that a medical examination 
wouldnt be required, but that Aviva may request further information from Ms Ws GP. 
Avivas stated working practice was that it referred to a GP in some cases, but not all. But it 
didnt need to do this, and this was clearly set out in the medical questionnaire. It said that it 
would underwrite an annuity on the basis of the information provided, with the possibility of 
referring to the applicants medical history. 
Mr W has suggested that the true purpose of the random sampling of medical records is to 
verify whether the information provided in the questionnaire was correct, and therefore 
justified the annuity in payment, rather than a genuine effort to determine whether it had 
assessed life expectancy correctly. But even if this was the case, and such checks only 
occurred after the fact and might only realistically result in an annuity reducing, it doesnt 
change the fact that an annuitant is provided with the opportunity to provide relevant details 
on which the annuity will then be based in the first place.
I think that, had an expectation been created that Aviva would automatically contact Ms Ws 
GP or consultant, and that Mr and Ms W could rely on a comprehensive assessment of Ms 
Ws medical history, my conclusions on this point might be different. But it didnt, and 
furthermore, I dont think it was under any obligation to do so. Avivas entitled to conduct its 
business, including its underwriting processes, how it sees fit within its regulatory 
requirements. And Im unaware of any regulatory requirement that it contact a GP in every 
instance of underwriting an annuity contract. Rather, my view is that it would be at its 
discretion as to whether it did so - as described in the annuity documentation.
As to the second key issue here, Ive thought carefully about whether Aviva properly 
underwrote the annuity in accordance with the information which had been provided. Ive 
firstly noted that the information provided by Aviva indicates that the relevant health 
conditions, including autoimmune hepatitis rather than simply hepatitis, were assessed by its 
underwriters.
Mr W has said that the 31.8% enhancement offered by Aviva couldnt have reflected the 
autoimmune hepatitis as, according to a Which report on enhanced annuities, there would 
have been around a 30% enhancement due to diabetes alone. I dont think the uplift works quite in the strictly cumulative way that Mr W has suggested  
after all, if someone had many different conditions, an underwriter could ultimately be 
uplifting an annuity by well over 100%. My understanding is that the underwriters would take 
all of the relevant conditions into account and decide on an appropriate percentage uplift 
factoring in the overall risks, some of which may overlap between conditions. 
But even if Im wrong on that, Aviva has confirmed that its underwriters have looked again at 
the enhancement on the basis of the information provided, and that its satisfied that it 
provided the correct annuity. I think this is a reasonable course of action in the 
circumstances and given that its reviewed its underwriting decision, I dont think that I could 
therefore fairly or reasonably conclude that Aviva has made a mistake in that regard.
Overall, therefore, whilst I know that Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome, on a fair 
and reasonable assessment of the facts of the case, my view is that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman