DRN-2812170
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK 
PLC when trying to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr M banked with Barclays, holding a personal account. He wanted to apply to the bank for 
a Bounce Back Loan shortly after the government-backed loan scheme was launched on 
4 May 2020. 
Mr M initially attempted to apply online, but found he was unable to submit an application. So 
he attempted to contact Barclays over the weeks that followed, but wasnt able to obtain a 
meaningful update or proceed with his application. With no progress, he raised a complaint 
in September.
In its response on 18 September 2020, Barclays said that Mr M would need to book an 
appointment with its new customer team so that the bank could gather information about his 
business. It provided a number for Mr M, while advising that there were high waiting times 
due to the volume of customers it was helping with Bounce Back Loans.
Barclays opened a new business account for Mr M on 7 December 2020. Thereafter it 
gathered further information from Mr M about his business, with a view to confirming that he 
met the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan. The bank confirmed on 11 January 2021 
that Mr M was eligible to apply. However, Mr M decided not to proceed with his application.
While the complaint was with us, Barclays reviewed how it had handled Mr Ms application 
and acknowledged that the service it provided had fallen short of a reasonable standard. So 
it apologised and offered to pay him £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and thought Barclays offer was a fair 
way to put things right. She didnt think the bank had done anything wrong in requiring Mr M 
to enter into a business relationship before considering an application from him for a Bounce 
Back Loan. But she thought the delays in arranging this had caused Mr M some distress and 
inconvenience, for which £250 was fair compensation. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He replied to say, in summary, that:
Barclays hadnt explained its requirement for a business relationship to be set up 
until late November 2020. Its letter of 18 September had been unclear and it hadnt 
been possible to get through on the telephone number provided. And initially thered 
been no requirement under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules for such a business 
relationship.
Hed had to chase Barclays over a period of seven months before matters were 
progressed in any way, during which time the bank had been unable to explain what 
was happening  including why he was unable to apply online and why he couldnt 
apply despite being a long-standing personal customer.
The £250 compensation proposed didnt reflect the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications  including from their existing customers. While it wasnt a 
requirement of the Scheme that applicants have, or enter into, a business relationship with a 
lender, it was up to each lender to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to those 
without one. This discretion was always a feature of the Scheme.
While Barclays was accepting applications from personal customers, like Mr M, it required 
them to enter into a business relationship first. As above, it was entitled to do so  and I think 
it was reasonable, particularly as it enabled the bank to gather information about the 
applicants business which could then be used to comply with the various checks it had to 
make under the Scheme rules.
This meant that Mr M was always, as a minimum, going to have to speak to Barclays to set 
up the necessary business record and provide the bank with information about his business 
before he could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. And its the reason that he was unable to 
apply online in the first place  which was not an error. 
It was, therefore, always going to take a little more time and trouble for Mr M to complete his 
Bounce Back Loan application than might have been the case for existing business 
customers  for legitimate reasons.
However, it then took around six months for Barclays to open the business account in order 
to proceed with Mr Ms Bounce Back Loan application. And while I dont think the time taken 
was solely down to errors or unreasonableness on Barclays part, I do think it contributed 
significantly to the delay. 
I think its fair to bear in mind that Barclays was dealing with the significant impact of the 
pandemic, which included the unprecedented level of demand for borrowing under the 
government-backed loan schemes. This would, understandably, have affected the level of 
service the bank could provide. But even taking this into account, I think the delays that Mr M 
experienced were unreasonable. 
In particular, I cant see that there was any meaningful action from the bank after it was 
made aware, on 18 May 2020, that Mr M would need to set up a business relationship and 
18 September, when it wrote to him explaining that he should contact the new customer 
team. During this time, Mr M was in touch to chase things up on a number of occasions  
understandably anxious to find out how he could move forward with the application for a 
Bounce Back Loan at a time of uncertainty. Barclays letter of 18 September did provide Mr M with a meaningful update and an 
explanation as to what was required  and how he could move things forward. So I dont 
agree that he wasnt aware of this until late November. The letter explained that Mr M would 
need to call the new customer team to arrange an appointment so that the bank could obtain 
information about his business. I dont doubt that it would have been difficult for Mr M to get 
through  due to the volume of calls that Barclays wouldve been dealing with  but 
nonetheless I think the bank had provided him with an update and a way forward.
Once the account was opened in December, I dont think there were any unreasonable 
delays on Barclays part in obtaining and reviewing the information it needed to verify Mr Ms 
eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan.
It is fair that Barclays compensates Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
poor service. Ive considered everything hes told us about the impact the matter on him. I 
recognise that he had to chase things up on a number of occasions, particularly as the bank 
didnt call him as it had agreed. And in addition to the time and trouble spent on the matter, I 
can see how it would also have exacerbated his stress and anxiety at an already difficult 
time  particularly considering his understandable frustration at the lack of progress or 
explanation between May and September. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think the £250 that Barclays has now offered is fair 
compensation and in line with what I would otherwise have awarded. 
I know Mr M doesnt think that £250 is sufficient and has questioned how such figures are 
calculated. In short, we consider the overall impact that the error(s) made by a financial 
business had on the complainant  and decide an amount that we consider fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of each case. We dont typically make a specific 
award for things like time spent, or calculate awards using an hourly rate. More information 
on our approach to deciding awards of this nature is available on our website, should Mr M 
wish to know more.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M compensation of 
£250.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman