DRN-3502011
The complaint
Mr W complains that Covea Insurance plc wouldnt pay the costs he wanted to claim under 
his pet insurance policy and about the increase in his policy premiums. My references to 
Covea include its agents.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr W took out pet insurance for his dog which if renewed gave lifetime cover 
subject to the policy terms and conditions. The policy was sold by an insurance administrator 
and from 2018 to 2021 the policy insurer wasnt Covea. In 2021 Covea became the insurer 
and the terms of Mr Ws policy remained broadly the same.
In April 2021 Mr W told Covea his dog had fallen while out walking which was exacerbated 
by his osteoarthritis and sadly his dog had to be put to sleep. His dog was eight years old.
Mr W asked Covea if it would cover the costs for euthanasia and cremation. Covea told 
Mr W those costs werent covered by the policy. Mr W also asked to claim the death benefit 
as his dog died due to illness. Covea told Mr W that under the policy terms his dog wasnt 
insured for the death due to illness benefit as his dog was a select breed, as defined by the 
policy terms, and over the age of five at the time of his death.
Mr W complained to us. He said:
Covea should pay for the euthanasia procedure as it was necessary for his dogs 
welfare.
He hadnt been told about the policy requirements for the death due to illness benefit.
When he took out the policy he wasnt told he would have to pay an extra 15% 
excess on all claims once his dog was over the age of seven so that was a hidden 
cost.
His policy premiums had increased over the last three years by an unfair amount 
from £52 to £152 a month. He said as his dog had medical conditions hed been 
trapped into staying with the policy as existing medical conditions wouldnt be cover 
by a new policy. He thought Covea had charged inflated premiums as it knew he 
couldnt change policy.
He wants Covea to pay the cost of the euthanasia and the death benefit. He added 
that hed been very stressed and worried about the costs and it had been a very 
difficult time for him losing his dog.
Covea said at the 2019, 2020 and 2021 policy renewals policy documents had been sent to 
Mr W to check if the policy still met his needs and he hadnt raised any concerns at the time 
about cover or price.
Our investigator said Covea had acted fairly in not paying the costs of his dogs euthanasia 
or cremation and not paying the death benefit. But she thought Covea should pay Mr W 
£150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by the premium increase over 
the three years as Covea should have given Mr W better information about the potential 
premium increase.
Covea disagreed it should pay Mr W compensation and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It 
said the policy was clear premiums could increase.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint against Covea. I said:
Costs and benefit Mr W wanted Covea to pay
I have to decide whether Covea acted fairly and reasonably in telling Mr W it wouldnt pay 
the costs and benefit he wanted to claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document and Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
which is two page document setting out the key features of the policy cover.
The IPID says on page one under the heading What is not insured:
Costs for having your pet put to sleep, cremated or buried
The policy says Covea will not pay for:
The costs of having your pet:
Put to sleep, including any veterinary consultations/visits or prescribed medications 
specifically needed to carry out the procedure, or
Cremated, buried or disposed of.
I understand Mr W acted in his dogs best interests in making the very difficult decision that it 
was best for him to be put to sleep. But most insurance policies dont cover such costs and 
its clear in the IPID and policy document that Covea wont cover those costs. So I think it 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions, and fairly, when it told Mr W it wouldnt pay 
those costs.
As to the death from illness benefit, the IPID says on page one under the heading What is 
not insured:
Costs of death due to illness once pet is over the age of 8 years old and 5 years old 
for select breeds.
The policy says under the heading Death from illness that Covea will pay the price a 
policyholder paid for their pet (or in some circumstances the market value) if the pet dies or 
has to be put to sleep by a vet during the policy year as a result of an illness. But the policy 
also says Covea wont pay:
Any amount if the death results from an illness in any select breed aged 5 years or 
over or any other pet aged 8 years or over.
The policy definition of select breed includes Mr Ws breed of dog. His dog was 8 years old 
when he died so even he hadnt been a select breed he was out of the age limit for the death 
benefit to be payable. I think the information was clear in the policy and that Covea acted in 
line with the policy terms and conditions, and fairly, when it told Mr W it wouldnt pay the 
death benefit.
Additional excess
The IPID says on page one under the heading Are there any restrictions on cover?:
You are responsible for paying an excess in the event of a claim, as shown in your 
Certificate of Insurance & Statement of Fact. For Veterinary fees or Complementary 
treatment, this includes paying 15% towards a claim for pets over 7 years of age (0 
for select breeds.
The policy says under the heading Excess:For veterinary fees and complementary treatment where your claim is in respect of a 
dog or cat which is aged 7 years or over (0 years for selected breeds), you will need 
to pay a contribution of 15% towards each claim in addition to your excess amounts.
Mr W says he wasnt told that over the age of seven certain breeds had an extra 15% 
excess on all claims. But I think the policy actually says the extra 15% excess on claims 
applies to select breeds from birth. The policy documents give that information clearly so 
I think Covea could fairly deduct the extra excess from any claim Mr W made to it.
Mr W also says when he first took out the policy it was never explained to him that the 
additional excess applied. But Covea didnt sell Mr W the policy so its not responsible for the 
information provided to him at that time. The insurance administrator, a separate business, 
sold the policy to Mr W so he would need to make a separate complaint to that business if 
he wanted to pursue that matter.
Premium payments
I can appreciate Mr W was worried that the policy cover was becoming increasingly 
expensive.
Our investigator correctly explained that Covea is entitled to set its premiums in line with its 
process and that we cant interfere in that or dictate the price Covea can charge. So I cant 
say that Mr Ws premium for the 2021 policy was too high. However, I can consider if Covea 
treated Mr W fairly and in line with how it would have treated other consumers in the same 
position.
Covea told Mr W some of the factors it takes into account in setting the price of the premium. 
Ive looked at the confidential business sensitive information provided by Covea about the 
calculation, which our investigator explained cant be shared with Mr W. Im satisfied that the 
premium price for Mr W was calculated by Covea in a fair and consistent way with other 
consumers.
Mr W is also unhappy about how much his premium increased over the lifetime of the policy, 
saying he couldnt change insurer as he didnt want to lose the cover for his dogs medical 
condition. When Im looking at a complaint about the premiums of a lifetime pet insurance 
policy increasing I need to look at the information the consumer was given when they bought 
the policy, to see how clearly the long-term costs of the policy were explained when Mr W 
was deciding whether to enter into the insurance contract.
As Ive said, Covea didnt sell Mr W the policy so its not responsible for the information 
provided to him when the policy was sold. Covea wasnt even the insurer at that time. So 
I cant reasonably say Covea must pay Mr W compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience he had due to the premium increases over the years.
If Mr W still thinks the long-term costs of the policy werent explained to him when he took 
out the policy hell need to make a separate complaint to the insurance administrator who 
sold him the policy.
As I dont think Covea did anything wrong I wont be asking it to make any payment to Mr W.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Covea accepted my provisional decision. Mr W didnt respond by the date we gave him to 
respond. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Covea accepted, and Mr W didnt respond to, my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Im satisfied that: Covea fairly and reasonably said it wouldnt pay the costs or death benefit 
Mr W wanted to claim following his dog being put to sleep; Covea could fairly deduct the 
extra excess from any claim Mr W made to it; Covea doesnt need to pay Mr W 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience he had due to the policy premium 
increases over the years. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman