DRN-3424510
The complaint
Mr D complains Santander UK Plc isnt treating him fairly  hes disabled  and that it 
doesnt care.
What happened
Mr D has a current account with Santander and a debit card. He told us when he complained 
to us that he has a laptop and a mobile phone but is unable to use online banking 
independently and struggles to get to branch. So, he uses telephone banking. There have 
been some developments recently  to which Ill come back shortly  which mean that hes 
now more able to use online banking. But these developments have only happened recently.
Until recently Mr D called Santander on a regular basis and these calls often went wrong. 
They normally went wrong because Mr D gives the whole of his security number when hes 
asked for it rather than specific digits. He says that Santanders staff regularly say hes not 
allowed to do this or shouldnt do this despite there being notes on his account to say he 
can. He says that this means Santanders staff arent reading his notes and dont care about 
disabled people.
Santander says Mr D complains on a regular basis about things going wrong, and then says 
he hasnt complained when it tries to investigate. Or he says he wants Santander to delete 
his complaint from its records. Santander says it has to keep a record of complaints made.
Mr D complained to Santander about its staff not reading his notes and not caring. 
Santander investigated Mr Ds complaint. Mr D then complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and said that theyd listened to a lot of 
calls where Santanders staff were patient, kind and professional. Theyd also listened to 
calls that had gone off track. Our investigator thought that, given the ways in which the calls 
had gone off track, it would be helpful if Mr D had a point of contact, or several points of 
contact. Our investigator also thought that Santander could improve the information it has on 
its systems about Mr D so that calls didnt go off track  at the time of the complaint 
Santander had almost 150 notes on its system about Mr D which staff were expected to read 
before speaking to him. Our investigator also recommended £300 in compensation.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, saying that it doesnt have 
the ability to offer a point of contact  or several points of contact. Mr D was unhappy with 
the amount of compensation recommended and said that Santander pays him compensation 
when something goes wrong but nothing ever changes. So I was asked to look into this 
complaint. I did so and attempted to resolve it informally. As I wasnt able to do so  both 
parties stopped replying to me  I issued a provisional decision saying that Santander ought 
to provide Mr D with a point of contact in its complaints or executive team so that he has 
someone dealing with his relationship with Santander who knows him, and what he needs, 
well who could help keep the relationship on track. In addition, I said that Santander ought to 
pay him £500 in compensation.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Santander said that the suggestion for a 
telephone contact may not be the best outcome for Mr D as he had decided not to take up 
the offer of using voice recognition to pass security meaning hed need to complete security 
over the phone. Santander instead suggested it could introduce Mr D to his local branch 
manager  he has a branch three miles away  instead. Santander also said that it was 
concerned it was being asked to provide a service it doesnt currently offer and which might 
not be sustainable. Santander said it was also concerned it might set a precedent. Mr D was 
happy with my decision and the compensation Id suggested. He also said that he was now 
using his online banking a lot more and that this meant he was calling Santander very little 
and, in turn, means he now knows whats going on with his account and is less anxious.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have sent us a lot of information, and Mr D has complained about a lot of calls 
that have gone wrong. In this case, however, I didnt think it was going to be helpful sending 
a detailed decision. So, having tried and failed to resolve this complaint informally, I sent a 
brief provisional decision saying what I thought of this complaint so that both parties would 
have an opportunity to comment on what I thought.
In that provisional decision, I said that Id listened to a large number of calls between Mr D 
and Santander, and Id spoken to him too. I said that hes a nice gentleman who can sound 
angry on the phone when hes not because his voice is, at times, loud. He can also get 
frustrated and upset quickly. In addition, I said that he often repeats points and his speech 
isnt always clear. I said I can, therefore, understand why a call with him might go wrong if 
someone is speaking to him for the first time or not able to handle the call in the right way. I 
also said calls are also likely to go wrong early on because Mr D gives the whole of his 
security number when hes asked for it rather than specific digits. Thats something that well-
trained staff will find counter-intuitive, so most well-trained staff will say thats not something 
he should be doing. But I also said  and neither party disagreed with me  that everyone 
appears to accept that this is an adjustment that needs to be made for Mr D.
I said I agreed with our investigator that Santanders staff have dealt with a lot of calls from 
Mr D where theyve been patient, kind and professional. Indeed, I said Id go further. I said 
Id heard some excellent examples of really well-handled calls. But Id also heard calls that 
had gone off track in part because the member of staff hadnt spoken to Mr D before  and 
so wasnt aware of what to do and what not to do  and because Santander has far too 
many notes on its system about Mr D which means theyre not helping in the way they 
should. In other words, as I said in my provisional decision, I agreed that Santander is at 
fault here  although not exclusively.
In my provisional decision, I said if Mr D only rang Santander when he needed to get 
information or complete a transaction, the calls that go off track wouldnt happen that 
regularly. Unfortunately, at the time of my provisional decision, that wasnt what was 
happening. Mr D was calling Santander far more than he needed to. The volume of calls 
meant the time between two calls going off track is much shorter than it otherwise would be. 
That was upsetting Mr D because he believed Santander didnt care given the apparent 
frequency with which things were going wrong. I said that it would, therefore, help if Mr D 
only rang Santander when he needed to. Im pleased to say that this is what has been 
happening recently because Mr D has told me he is now getting support with his online 
banking meaning he only rarely has to phone Santander. More importantly, because of this, 
hes now also less anxious.
In my provisional decision I said it would also help if Santander could find other ways to complete security. I said I knew, for example, that voice recognition was an option. And I 
also said that Mr D believes that this wont work because of his speech problems. I said I 
accepted that there are words that Mr D has difficulties with. He doesnt appear, for example, 
to be able to say the word complaint. Instead he says plaint. But I also said that these 
days voice recognition is much more sophisticated than it used to be, and I did think it might 
be an option for Mr D. I said that both sides would, however, have to be willing to try  and 
Santander saying whether or not this is an option would be a good start. I said if voice 
recognition works, it would mean Mr D wouldnt be asked for his security number  in whole 
or part  every time he calls. In other words, one of the reasons why calls often go off track 
would go away. Its disappointing that Santander didnt come back to me on this point  and 
on whether or not its voice recognition system would be able to recognise Mr Ds voice 
notwithstanding his speech problems. It means this avenue hasnt been explored. I hope 
Santander will revisit this.
In my provisional decision, I said Id heard some calls where Mr D said things to Santanders 
staff that would be upsetting for them. Id heard him say, for example, that Santanders 
service is the worst ever and to staff that he hopes they lose their job. I dont think Mr D 
means to upset the staff  hell often say sorry shortly afterwards or compliment the 
member of staff. And hell often make a complaint only to withdraw it later saying that hes 
happy with Santander. But these are upsetting things to say to someone who is trying to 
help.
Once I became involved in this complaint, I asked Santander to reply to what our investigator 
had recommended and, in particular, setting up a point or points of contact for Mr D. I didnt 
get a response from Santander. I also asked Santander to comment on a proposal to resolve 
this complaint, namely that Mr D be given a point of contact in Santanders complaints or 
executive office team so that he had someone dealing with his relationship with Santander 
who knows him, and what he needs, well who could help keep the relationship on track. I 
didnt get a proper response to that proposal either, other than a suggestion that this is only 
something Santander would do if it was told to do so in a decision from an ombudsman. Ive 
seen this kind of proposal work very effectively elsewhere. So that was part of the solution I 
proposed in my provisional decision. Santander has replied to that proposal saying that it 
thinks introducing Mr D to his local branch manager would work. But Id already explained in 
my provisional decision that Mr D doesnt find it easy getting into branch  hes told me 
theres only one bus a day that would get him there on time  so this isnt an option Ive 
explored further.
It was clear to me that Mr D was going to continue to have problems with Santander unless 
and until the parties found a better way of working together. In a case like this, when its 
obvious that things are going wrong, I would have expected a business like Santander to 
come up with ideas and solutions. Its disappointing that throughout this complaint it didnt do 
so. Had it not been for Mr D getting support to help him with his online banking, and that 
working well meaning he doesnt need to rely on telephone banking much now, Mr D would 
still have been having problems with his banking.
Putting things right
The fact that Mr D doesnt use telephone banking as much now  normally only when his 
internet goes down  means I dont think the proposal I made is going to be unsustainable in 
the way Santander fears. So, Im going to require Santander to give Mr D a point of contact 
in Santanders complaints or executive office team so that he has someone dealing with his 
relationship with Santander who knows him, and what he needs, well who could help keep 
the relationship on track. In addition, having looked at the length of time Mr D has been 
having problems with Santander and the impact this has had on him Im going to award him 
£500 in compensation.Ive written to Mr D explaining some of the things hell need to take into account when 
dealing with Santander in the future. Ive explained, for example, that Santander is there to 
answer calls he has about his banking and that he shouldnt, for example, be calling 
Santander simply to chat to someone  even if the staff there are polite and friendly. Ive also 
explained, for example, that Santander doesnt intentionally treat customers who complain 
unfairly because theyve complained  or shouldnt do. Ive sent a copy of this letter to 
Santander too, so both parties know what to expect going forwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Santander UK Plc to give Mr D a point of contact in its 
complaints or executive office team so that he has someone dealing with his relationship 
with Santander who knows him, and what he needs, well who could help keep the 
relationship on track. In addition, Im going to require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr D £500 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman