DRN-2924266
The complaint
Mrs L says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that Mutual did not undertake proper affordability checks. Mrs L says that if it had 
done, Mutual wouldve seen that she couldnt afford the lending and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about nine home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs L between 
October 2012 and June 2018. Some of the information provided to me about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm date ended
1 13/10/2012 £500 26 01/05/2013
2 27/04/2013 £500 26 25/09/2013
3 15/02/2014 £400 51 09/07/2014
4 05/07/2014 £700 102 16/03/2016
5 24/09/2014 £500 102 05/10/2016
6 19/03/2016 £700 102 08/02/2017
7 11/02/2017 £700 102 20/06/2018
8 07/10/2017 £500 51 14/11/2018
9 16/06/2018 £500 51 17/04/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that Mutual shouldnt have approved 
any lending from loan 6 onwards as the lending pattern itself was harmful. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said, and 
its own summary of this is below:
Mutuals loans are a mid-cost product not a high-cost one, the lending should not be 
assessed as high-cost.
Mutuals lending was for durations of 1-2 years, a short term lending approach is not 
suitable for the assessment of the loans issued.
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing. The loans were 
spread over many years.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending 
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this 
assessment should be made.
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending in any rule or 
guidance it is aware of.
Taking 9 loans over 7 years is not the same as taking 9 loans in 1 year.
Concurrent lending has been encouraged by the regulator because it is cheaper and 
fairer for the customer than roll-over loans.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs L. It 
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on 
these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published 
decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Mrs L didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to consider loans 1 to 4 and not to 
uphold loan 5. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these 
loans. And, for the avoidance of doubt, given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what 
the adjudicator said about this lending. But these loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mrs L had with Mutual. So, they are something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took.
And I will comment that much of the information provided by Mutual about the checks it 
made concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there is very little 
evidence to show these processes were followed here. There is application data for most of 
the lending,  but there isnt a great deal of detail in it. Mutual has indicated that detailed 
credit reference agency information would have been collected and discussions about the 
use and appropriateness of the loans. But Ive not seen any clear evidence that these 
checks or discussions took place. So, Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is 
supposed to have followed, but didnt, are helpful here. Im not able to place any weight on 
descriptions of what ought to have happened.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mrs L, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ls case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 6. I say this because:
Mrs L had been indebted to Mutual for around three and a half years. Some of the 
loans were intended to run for up to two years, so Mutual could have expected this 
would be the case. But because these loans overlapped at times, and so her overall 
indebtedness,  and weekly repayments, had increased when this was the case. 
So, I dont think this pattern of lending shows a uniform picture of decreasing 
indebtedness that would happen when a loan is taken and repaid. Instead there was 
a pattern of repeated and increasing borrowing. I think taking out six longer term high 
cost loans, over this period, is a strong indicator that Mrs L was starting to struggle 
financially.
Loan 6 was for £700. And the loans before this had been for between £400 and 
£700, most of them were for £500. So, loan 6 was the latest in a line of borrowing of 
relatively high amounts. At this point Mutual ought to have known that Mrs L had an 
ongoing need for this type of credit.
And this is reflected in the information Mutual recorded about why Mrs L started 
these loans. The majority of them were recorded as being used to fund yearly 
expenditures such car repairs and household expenditure. On the one hand it isnt 
necessarily or automatically unreasonable to use this type of credit to do this. 
But I dont agree that because these loans were recorded as being for things such as 
car MOT and household expenditure that this makes the lending reasonable. 
These are living expenses, and if Mrs L had to consistently borrow to fund these it is 
likely she was in financial difficulty. 
And using a high cost form of borrowing over a prolonged period is still likely to have 
caused financial problems, and in this case the evidence suggests it left Mrs L with little alternative but to borrow again in the future, when these yearly, or large, 
expenditures were likely to be incurred again, as she did.
Right from the start Mrs L was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
an earlier one, or when she hadnt repaid her existing loan(s). So, there wasnt an 
appreciable time when Mrs L wasnt in debt to Mutual. 
So, because of the above factors, Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Mrs Ls indebtedness was unsustainable from loan 6. 
Going forward Mrs L didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. 
Loan 9 was taken over five years after Mrs Ls first. So, the harmful pattern I think 
was established from loan 6 continued. Mrs L had paid large amounts of interest to, 
in effect, service a debt to Mutual over a very long time.
I think that Mrs L lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ls indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs L borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 9 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern 
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be 
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint.
Putting things right
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs L loans 6 to 9.A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs L towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs L 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should pay Mrs L the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ls borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ls credit file. If 
Mutual has sold any of the loans Mutual should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman