DRN-1855173
Complaint
Mrs M says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs M and Canada Square a provisional decision on 7 May 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs M applied for her credit card online, in her own time, and without any potential pressure 
from a salesperson. Her application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional features. It 
gave an overview of the policys cost and purpose, and then had two options to choose from: 
one to take the policy, and one to turn it down. According to the electronic record of Mrs Ms 
application, she chose the option to buy PPI. Ive not seen any wider problems with this 
application process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mrs M was misled 
here. So I think its most likely that Canada Square made Mrs M aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if 
she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs M enough information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada Square gave Mrs M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs M chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and covered her for longer. And while 
I understand her family wouldve been happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed, and this policy meant Mrs M wouldnt have to ask her family to 
pay her credit card if she was off sick or lost her job. So the policy could have been useful for 
Mrs M in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so 
Mrs M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
22 May 2020. Neither Mrs M nor Canada Square sent me anything new to consider, though 
Mrs M reiterated that she didnt choose PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
I understand where Mrs M is coming from. Its unsurprising if she no longer recalls buying 
PPI  not least as buying insurance is not often memorable, and this sale was particularly 
long ago. But based on the evidence, its most likely that she was offered a choice and 
chose to buy PPI at the time. And Ive not found any other reason to say that this policy was 
mis-sold, either.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Canada Square Operations Limited, for the reasons 
set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman