The complaint
Mrs F says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage.
What happened
In June 1998 Mrs F applied for a mortgage. At the same time Santander sold her a 
PPI policy. The policy was free for the first three months, and then cost £43.05 a month. The 
policy would pay £720 a month for up to 12 months if Mrs F lost her job or was off work sick 
for more than 30 days.
Mrs F thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs F didn't 
agree with the adjudicator's view. The complaint has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether the policy was optional and whether Mrs F chose to buy it.
Because of the time that's passed, Santander doesn't have copies of the application forms 
Mrs F had to complete at the time. But I don't think that's unreasonable given the PPI started 
in 1998 and was cancelled in 2005. I don't expect businesses to keep this paperwork 
indefinitely. So I've considered what Mrs F has said alongside the other information that is 
available.
At first, Mrs F told us that the optional nature of the PPI wasn't explained to her - and that 
she felt pressured into taking out the PPI policy. In reply to the adjudicator Mrs F said she 
didn't know she had the policy with her mortgage.
I've carefully considered what Mrs F has said. I see that after the policy started the insurer 
sent her a letter explaining that she'd applied for the policy. I also see the policy was 
cancelled - but the mortgage remained open - in February 2005. So I think that Mrs F knew 
she'd bought the policy - even if, after all this time, she doesn't now remember doing so. I'm 
mindful that a long time has passed since the sale, and recollections can and do fade over 
time. On balance, I don't think the information I've seen is strong enough for me to say that 
DRN-1060905Santander didn't make it clear that Mrs F had a choice or that she didn't choose to buy the 
policy.
Santander says it recommended the policy - so it had to make sure it was right for Mrs F. 
Based on what I've seen of Mrs F's circumstances, it doesn't look as though she was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. The policy protected a mortgage, 
and so the property was at risk if Mrs F couldn't make the repayments. While I accept that 
Mrs F got some sick pay from her employer if she was off work sick, this policy would pay 
£720 a month for up to 12 months if she was off work sick and also covered her if she was 
made redundant. So I think she had a need for the cover.
It's possible the information Santander gave Mrs F about the policy wasn't clear enough. But 
it looks like the policy would have been useful to her if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking the cover.
I've thought about everything else Mrs F has said. But this doesn't change my decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman