DRN-4195712
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had a serious accident in his camper van and made a claim under his motor insurance 
policy. During the early stages of the claim it was suggested his van was a total loss due to 
the level of damage caused in the accident. But it was eventually decided that it was 
repairable, and Admiral returned the camper van to Mr B and made a cash-in-lieu (CIL) 
payment to him for the damage.
However, Mr B wasnt happy about the way it dealt with his claim including the delay and 
poor service he received. Most of this was dealt with under a separate complaint before Mr 
Bs claim was finalised so it wont be considered here. The focus of this complaint is that Mr 
B felt his van should have been deemed a total loss or fully repaired before it was returned 
to him. Admiral acknowledged its service was poor, and it delayed in dealing with Mr Bs 
claim and offered £200 by way of compensation in addition to the level of compensation it 
had already paid in relation to his earlier complaint. But it felt it had acted reasonably in 
returning Mr Bs van and paying CIL for the work that was required and a small amount 
towards the investigation of a leak that may have been caused by the accident.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and upheld his complaint. She thought Admiral 
should have got to the bottom of the cause of the leak before returning the camper van to 
him and it wasnt fair to ask Mr B to undertake the investigative work. And that it should now 
look to pay Mr B the market value of his van less the amount it had already paid him as he 
had been forced to sell the camper van in a state of disrepair. And pay £400 compensation 
as opposed to £200 for the inconvenience caused was fair. 
As Admiral didnt agree, maintaining it acted fairly, the matter has been passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has accepted it has drawn out Mr Bs claim unnecessarily here and not dealt with 
the claim in a reasonable period of time and that its service was poor. A lot of this has been 
dealt with separately and so any aspect of compensation considered here will be for the 
continued delay and poor service from around 28 December 2022 until its final response 
letter of 15 March 2023. Our investigator felt Admiral should increase its offer of 
compensation to £400 for the further poor service and delay. As both sides seem to have 
accepted this I dont propose to go over this again here as it isnt debated, and I agree this 
feels fair. 
Turning to the claim itself I would have thought Admiral would have ensured it got to the 
bottom of what was wrong with Mr Bs van given the significant amount of time it had 
possession of Mr Bs camper van. I note two separate mechanics thought Mr Bs van was a 
write off so Im satisfied that it must have been close to a write off even though Admirals 
engineer suggested it was repairable. However, at that stage it just wasnt clear what the 
cause of the mechanical problem that was causing a significant leak to Mr Bs van was or if it 
was caused in the accident. And I would have expected Admiral to have got to the bottom of 
this before returning the van and the £150 it offered for investigative work doesnt feel 
sufficient to investigate the problem  after all I presume Admiral returned the van without 
getting to the bottom of this as identifying the problem wasnt straightforward.
Given the leak only occurred around the time of the accident and the impact was significant 
it seems likely that this was caused by the accident. Indeed, Admirals own engineer said 
under Specialist Repairs that Admiral needed to investigate leak and that it was plausible 
that the leak is related to the front-end incident but they couldnt find the exact source. 
So, Im surprised Mr Bs van was simply returned to him and dumped on a public road for 
him to undertake the investigation work required when the van wasnt driveable. As Mr B has 
highlighted he had to get the van transported in order to be inspected which would have 
eaten in to most, if not all, of the small investigative costs Admiral was allowing. And as 
Admirals own engineer couldnt get to the bottom of the problem and two other mechanics 
had suggested the van was a write off I agree that this left Mr B in a very difficult position.
As Mr B didnt have anywhere to store the vehicle himself he relied on the use of a friends 
drive and when this became difficult he simply had to sell the van as he couldnt store it. 
Obviously Mr B had to sell the van for a significantly reduced price as it wasnt roadworthy, 
had panel damage to be repaired and, importantly, had an undefined mechanical leak.
Given all of this I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Admiral to try and put Mr B back into the position he would 
have been but for its errors in dealing with the claim and failure to identify all the damage 
caused in the accident. And so, I agree that it should pay Mr B the market value of his 
camper van, less the amount it already paid as CIL and the amount Mr B got paid for his van 
in its unroadworthy state.
As such, I think Admiral should treat Mr Bs claim as if it was a total loss and pay Mr B the 
market value of his car minus the CIL payments already made, the payment Mr B received 
for his camper van plus 8% simple interest for the time he has been without the money. And 
£400 compensation for the clear stress, frustration and inconvenience Mr B has had to face 
from December 2022 to March 2023. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I think Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited should pay Mr B the market value of his van less the amount it has 
already paid as CIL and the reduced value Mr B was paid for his van, plus 8% simple 
interest. And £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman