DRN-2386420
The complaint
Mr K says Ageas Insurance Limited recorded incorrect information after he called to query 
the cover on his motor insurance policy and that it led to inconvenience and financial loss.
What happened
Mr K told us he called Ageas on 15 September 2016 (after he lost his car keys) to query 
what the policy excess would be should he make a claim. He said he called Ageas shortly 
afterwards to say he wouldnt be making a claim, as he had cover elsewhere. He said Ageas 
shouldnt have recorded anything on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database  and he wasnt aware that it had.
In May 2020, another insurer (insurer B) told him there was a record on CUE showing that a 
non-fault theft claim had been recorded by Ageas in September 2016. The other insurer then 
increased the premium payable by Mr K. It agreed to consider the situation again if Mr K 
could prove that the CUE record was wrong. Ageas agreed to remove the record from CUE 
as soon as Mr K showed it that the 2016 incident had been dealt with elsewhere. But it said 
it was right to record the matter as notification / information only on CUE, as a claim was 
reported to it by Mr K and was set up, even though it didnt go ahead under Ageass policy.
Mr K said Ageas had recorded inaccurate details and that it should have told him a record 
was going to be made on CUE. He said as a result of its actions hed had to make many 
calls and had been forced to re-arrange and pay more for his insurance in 2020.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint. He said Ageas had recorded the 
incident correctly on CUE. And he thought the wording in the policy document explained that 
such information would be shared. He thought Ageas had acted promptly to remove its 
record once Mr K provided evidence that the claim was dealt with elsewhere. Mr K said 
Ageas had a duty to make him aware of the potential CUE record, so he could have given it 
the details of how the claim was dealt with elsewhere at the time. And he didnt agree that 
the policy wording about sharing details applied to his situation. 
As there was no agreement, Mr Ks complaint was passed to me for review.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr K queried his new insurers decision to increase his premium in 2020, it told him 
about a non-fault stolen vehicle claim it had noted from September 2016. It also said a non-
fault claim from August 2019 had changed to a fault claim. Insurer B said the premium had 
risen as a result of the 2016 claim and the change to the 2019 claim. It said if Mr K could 
show he hadnt made a claim in 2016, any refund would be credited to him. It didnt promise 
a refund  and when Mr K showed there was no 2016 claim, the premium increased. Insurer 
B said all of Mr Ks details were recalculated by it at that point.  
Ageas has always said that it recorded an incident of lost keys (not a stolen vehicle) and its 
records show that was the case, so it isnt clear why insurer B referred to the 2016 issue in 
the way it did. Ageass file shows that a claim was set up and a referral to a garage was 
prepared, on the basis that work on the cars locks would be required. Ageas says as Mr K 
called back quickly to say he didnt wish to pursue a claim, the record made on CUE showed 
what insurers usually refer to as notification / information only, and the file was closed. 
I think Ageas could have recorded the matter as claim withdrawn  closed on CUE, as that 
might more accurately have described what happened. But I dont think it was wrong for 
Ageas to add the record it did, or that it made a difference to the outcome. Ageas told us it 
removed the record altogether from CUE when Mr K showed hed had the incident dealt with 
elsewhere. It said it did that only because it thought if it wasnt removed,  there would have 
been two records for the same incident, which would have been wrong.
In fact, insurer B only found one record for September 2016, so it looks as though the only 
record around that time was made by Ageas. Ageas checked the CUE record again recently 
and confirmed that no 2016 incident is showing. As Ive said, I dont think it was wrong to 
record the incident Mr K had reported, whether or not he made a claim on the policy. Ageas 
couldnt have known whether another insurer would deal with the matter subsequently and 
add a new record to CUE. It was always possible that Mr K may not have claimed elsewhere 
in the end  or the keys may even have been found. 
Mr K says he lost out as Ageas made the CUE entry and didnt tell him it was going to do 
that. It isnt standard practice for insurers to tell consumers that a notification / information 
only record will be made. And they dont usually lead to a higher premium being charged; it 
seems the record made no difference to Mr Ks premiums until 2020. But in the policy, under 
Data protection notice, theres a section stating that information will be shared with other 
insurers - plus one explaining that details will be shared on CUE and other databases. The 
section says a policy holder must inform Ageas of any incident that may give rise to a claim 
and that the information will be passed on to any relevant register (such as CUE).  
When insurer B recalculated its premium - having accepted that no claim was made in 2016, 
but noting the fault claim in 2019 - the sum it charged increased. But that was based on 
insurer Bs underwriting criteria, so I dont think Mr K can show that he lost out financially as 
a result of Ageass record. I think he was inconvenienced in 2020, and its clear from the file 
- including the recording of the post-view call between Mr K and our investigator - that he 
feels very frustrated by what happened. I think thats understandable, but as I dont think 
Ageas acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman