DRN-1374790
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to issue him with green cards. 
What happened
On 9 March 2019 Mr C contacted Admiral asking for green cards for his holiday to France. 
On 11 March 2019 Mr C made a complaint to Admiral. He said he was unhappy with the 
waiting time for the green cards and that Admiral wasnt prepared for Brexit. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and spoke to Mr C on 15 March 2019. Mr C said he needed 
the green cards for a holiday. And he was due to depart on 19 March 2019.  So Admiral said 
it would send the green cards by next day delivery. It also sent Mr C a final response letter  
dated 15 March 2019 - not upholding his complaint. 
Mr C says the green cards didnt arrive, so he was unable to go on his holiday in March. He 
then requested green cards again on 10 September 2019 as he said he was going to be 
driving outside the UK on 1 October 2019. Admiral sent green cards to Mr C but these had 
an error so they had to be resent. So Mr C made another complaint to Admiral. 
Admiral reviewed this complaint and sent a letter dated 8 October 2019 upholding it. It 
apologised to Mr C for him not receiving the green cards in September and for them having 
the wrong dates on them. It also sent Mr C a cheque for £25 for the trouble and upset. 
Within this letter it said it wasnt prepared to discuss the complaint points it had already 
answered in its previous final response in March 2019. 
Mr C remained unhappy with this response. He said Admiral had refused to discuss the 
earlier final response it sent in March 2019. And it mistakenly sent green cards to start on
6 October 2019 even though he was due to depart for France on 18 September 2019.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. She said she was 
satisfied Admiral had sent out green cards in March 2019 and these were returned to it on 
11 April 2019. She felt it wasnt Admirals fault that these were not received by Mr C. So she 
didnt think Admiral should cover the cost of Mr Cs holiday in March 2019. She added that 
she felt the £25 Admiral had offered was fair. 
Mr C disagreed. He said Admiral had failed to provide evidence the green cards were sent in 
March. He felt the evidence Admiral had sent was a template and was probably a forgery. 
He added Admiral had failed to send him the correct green cards for his holidays in
March and September 2019.
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In reaching my outcome Ive looked impartially at whether Admiral  on balance  did send 
Mr C his green cards in March 2019. And whether it should compensate him for the loss of 
his holiday. 
As Mr C has pointed out Admirals guidelines were to allow at least fourteen days for it to 
process a request for green cards. I also note Mr C has highlighted the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) notes which says to request the green cards at least a month before you 
travel. Unfortunately, Mr C first contacted Admiral on 9 March 2019 which was only 10 days 
before he was due to depart. So I believe Mr C asked for his green cards outside of the 
advised timeframes. 
I note from a call recording and the call notes of the calls Mr C had with Admiral on
9 March 2019 that Mr C didnt confirm his departure date. Admiral only said they wanted to 
know the dates of travel to prioritise the request. It then attempted to send the green cards to 
him on 15 March. Ive seen the post office tracking number and that there was a delivery 
attempt on 16 March 2019. The documents were then ready to be collected according to the 
post office in the sorting office until 5 April 2019 when they were returned to Admiral. 
Mr C says there isnt enough evidence to show the green cards were sent because Admiral 
can no longer provide a copy of what was sent. This is unfortunate and I can see why Mr C 
believes these werent sent. But I find it unlikely that Admiral wouldnt have sent the green 
cards under the tracking reference number it has provided as it said it would. So Im satisfied 
 on balance - the green cards were sent by Admiral. 
I know Mr C says he didnt receive these and they were held in the sorting office without him 
receiving any notification. But I dont think this was Admirals fault. I can see a delivery was 
attempted so if Mr C didnt receive any notification of this attempt this would be the 
responsibility of the post office. Ive also considered that Mr C couldve called Admiral to 
confirm the documents had been sent on 16 March 2019 when he hadnt received them. If 
he had, then Admiral wouldve been able to confirm to him the documents were at the 
sorting office ready to be collected. 
I accept it wouldve been frustrating for Mr C to receive the green cards with the incorrect 
date on them in September 2019. But I note he did tell Admiral he would be driving outside 
the UK from 1 October in his e-mail  dated 10 September 2019. He then said he was due to 
go to France on 18 September 2019 in a letter he sent to Admiral on that day. I note Mr C 
says he needed the green cards and has provided newspaper articles about issues with 
people driving outside the UK without them. However, according to the UK government 
website, he wouldnt have needed a green card for France at either of these points as the 
UK wasnt due to leave the EU until 31 October 2019. So, Im not satisfied this error by 
Admiral wouldve led to him changing his holiday plans. As a result, I think the offer of £25 by 
Admiral is fair in the circumstances for its error with the green cards in September 2019. Mr C says he isnt happy Admiral refused to review the complaint it investigated in March 
2019. However, Admiral had already sent a final response in March 2019 in relation to that 
issue. As that is its final response, it didnt have to reinvestigate the issues it had already 
reviewed. 
I note Mr C says he doesnt feel Admiral were ready for Brexit back in March 2019. I agree 
with the investigator that this isnt a point I can consider against Admiral. This service can 
only look into individual complaints. It doesnt have the power to investigate whether an 
insurer as a whole is ready to deal with a particular political change in administration. 
So, Im not going to ask Admiral to do anymore here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman