DRN-2527913
The complaint
Mr M complains AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt fairly dealt with a theft claim he made on his 
bicycle insurance policy.
Any reference to the insurer includes agents and representatives acting on its behalf in 
relation to claim and complaint handling.
I should mention my decision solely relates to Mr Ms complaint about his claim being 
declined. I understand hes also raised concerns about the information he was given when 
he took out the policy. If Mr M decides to pursue the matter further, itll be considered as a 
separate complaint about the broker.
What happened
AWP is the insurer for Mr Ms bicycle insurance policy.  
In July 2020, one of Mr Ms bicycles was stolen from the basement of his apartment block. It 
had been locked to a fixed bike rack.
AWP declined Mr Ms claim. It said he hadnt complied with the security requirements of the 
policy. Mr M had secured his bike with a lock that was rated silver by a security standard, but 
the value of his bike meant he was required to secure it with a gold-rated lock.
Mr M complained it wasnt made clear to him he was required to have a gold-rated lock if his 
bike was worth above a certain value. He said he would have bought the correct type of lock 
if hed known. 
Mr M also questioned whether a lock was required in the first instance given where he kept 
his bike. He said it fell into one of the insured location categories defined in the policy terms 
which didnt require him to use a lock at all provided all external doors to the location area 
met certain security standards. He said hed checked with the building facilities manager 
who confirmed the doors to the basement met these criteria.
AWP said the security requirements were highlighted at the time he purchased the policy 
(through a broker) and were also set out in the policy document. It also said the storage area 
was accessible to all the residents of Mr Ms apartment block and couldnt be considered 
privately accessed. AWP thought the storage area fell into one of the communal 
categories which required the bike to be secured with a lock.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns and thought the storage area couldnt be 
classed as private, so it didnt meet the category he contended. She believed it fitted into 
one of the communal categories which required a lock; in this case a gold-rated lock. As the 
lock Mr M had used didnt meet the security standard set out in the policy, our investigator 
concluded AWP hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In summary, 
he says privately accessed isnt defined in the policy, so its natural to assume it means 
privately accessed by residents, i.e. a privately accessed communal space like a garage. 
Mr M also states the policy wording regarding the insured location is ambiguous.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure all parties that although Ive only provided a summary above, so not 
everything that has happened or been argued is covered, Ive considered everything Ive 
been provided with in its entirety.
I understand Mr M feels strongly about the complaint. A crime has undoubtedly been 
committed and understandably hes disappointed, particularly as the claim has also been 
declined. So, what I need to consider is whether AWP was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when declining his claim.
The starting position with any complaint about a claim made under an insurance policy is the 
terms and conditions which apply  they form the basis of the contract between the 
policyholder and the insurer. Mr Ms policy states:
1. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS AT THE INSURED LOCATION
Malicious damage, or theft of the property insured whilst at the insured location 
shall only be covered in circumstances where the pedal cycle is:
a) At an insured location; as described in a), d), e) and h), the pedal cycle DOES 
NOT need to be secured through the frame by an approved lock to an 
immovable object, however any home security devices must be in operation 
and all final exit doors and accessible windows must be locked.
b) At an insured location as described in b) and c) you have complied with the 
following security requirements:
i. All external doors must be secured by a minimum of a 5-lever mortice 
deadlock to BS3621 standard or a CEN Grade 3 closed shackle padlock, 
or 
ii. The pedal cycle must be secured through the frame by an approved lock to 
an immovable object within the building.
c) At an insured location as described in f) and g) the pedal cycle must be 
secured through the frame by an approved lock to an immovable object within 
the building.
And insured location is defined as:
Insured Location  the location stated in the schedule where the pedal cycle is 
usually kept which shall mean:
a) A house built of brick, concrete or stone and roofed with slate, tiles or a multi 
layered roof.
b) An outbuilding or garage built of brick, concrete or stone and roofed with slate, 
tiles, corrugated steel, asbestos or multi layered roof, which is attached to or 
within the immediate boundaries of a private house or block of flats and is 
privately accessed.
c) A privately accessed shed which is securely locked at all times, within the 
immediate boundaries of the property in which you normally reside, with no 
exposed or easily accessible hinges.
d) A self-contained flat within a brick, concrete or stone building with a slate, tiled 
or multi layered roof.e) A self-contained lockable private room in either your normal place of work or the 
halls of residence of a university in which you normally reside.
f) A communal room or hallway in a brick, concrete or stone building with a slate, 
tiled or multi-layered roof, in which you normally reside or is your normal place of 
work.
g) A communal outbuilding or privately accessed purpose-built bike storage built of 
brick, concrete or stone and roofed with slate, tiles, corrugated steel, asbestos or 
multi-layered roof within the boundaries of the building in which you normally 
reside, including but not limited to underground car parks.
h) Cover is extended to any temporary residence such as a holiday cottage/home, 
guesthouse, hotel or like for a maximum period of 30 days at any one time during 
the period of insurance, providing your section of the temporary residence is 
self-contained and lockable.
It is clear theft is covered under Mr Ms policy provided other conditions are met.
AWP says the location where Mr M stored his bike falls under sections f or g of the above 
definition as its a communal area. Mr M contends it falls under section b. He says its the 
best description of the basement given the reference to block of flats and garage, and it 
being reasonable to assume privately accessed means privately accessed by residents. 
Mr M also argues section g suggests something that is privately accessed can also be a type 
of communal area. And by this logic, a privately accessed garage (section b) could include a 
communal bike area thats accessible only to residents. 
So, the crux at the heart of this dispute is whether a basement which Mr M says can only be 
accessed by residents of the apartment block is considered as being privately accessed. 
Where a word isnt defined in the policy, its given its ordinary everyday meaning in the 
context for which its being used  in this case, an insurance policy that provides cover for, 
amongst other things, theft and malicious damage. The spirit of cover is to place some 
responsibility on the policyholder to minimise the risk of an insured peril. In my judgement, a 
natural reading of the words privately accessed in this context suggests something that is 
accessible only to the policyholder (or someone who meets the policys definition of you). 
Mr M makes a good argument about privately accessed in the context of section g. But I 
dont think its logically sustainable. I agree the wording could be clearer, but I doubt whether 
it was ever AWPs intention to cover theft from a communal area, like a basement or an 
underground car park, where the bike wasnt locked at all. I think most people would think its 
reasonable to expect to secure a bike when other individuals can gain access. In this case, 
Mr M is reliant on other residents to ensure his bike remains in the basement. The fact he 
secured his bike while it was kept there overnight suggests Mr M also considered it prudent 
to lock his bike.
Having carefully considered the available information, Im satisfied the location Mr M kept his 
bike doesnt fall into sections a to e or h. I consider section f fits the location unambiguously. 
A basement is a type of a communal room. A common dictionary definition of the word room 
is, a part of the inside of a building that is separated from other parts by walls, floor and 
ceiling. And it would be considered communal since it belongs to and is used by a group of 
people  the residents. 
It could also be argued the basement in Mr Ms apartment block falls into the description 
under section g  it is akin to an underground car park which the policy describes as an 
example for this section. 
But I dont need to make a finding on which of these two sections  f or g  best describe 
where Mr M stored his bike. Both fall under section c of the policys security requirements at the insured location, meaning cover is only provided where the bike is secured with a silver 
or gold-rated lock (depending on the bikes value). 
According to Mr Ms policy, bikes exceeding a value of £1,500  as is the case here  
require a gold-rated lock. As Mr Ms bike was secured with a silver-rated lock, it didnt 
comply with the security requirements. Accordingly, Im satisfied the claim was declined fairly 
and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I realise Mr M is likely to be disappointed with my findings. But for the reasons given, I dont 
consider AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman