DRN-3988976
The complaint
Miss M had loans with Morses Club PLC. During the time she was repaying them she 
overpaid and Miss M complains that she did not understand why the credit on the account 
could not be used to clear part of the sums she owed. She found it all confusing. 
Miss M also complains that one of the Morses representatives was rude to her on the 
telephone. 
What happened
Miss M had loans with Morses in 2021 and 2022. In early July 2022 it was explained to her 
that when the account figure on her on-line account had a minus sign in front of it that meant 
she was ahead with her payments. 
In early August 2022 the same query was raised. Miss M had made a series of payments 
towards her loan accounts over the weekend and it was confusing for her to know where that 
money had gone and why the credited sums could not be used to pay down some of the 
loan accounts. 
Miss M had raised a complaint and it seemed that it was resolved over the telephone and 
Morses sent to Miss M a summary resolution letter. The referral rights it was required to give 
Miss M were included in that summary resolution letter. Miss M referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators checked with Miss M that she did feel aggrieved still as the 
information our adjudicator had received appeared to show that Miss M had been content 
when the complaint was sorted out on the telephone last year. 
Miss M replied to explain that deep down she did not feel happy about it  that the Morses 
person was rude on the phone  and she wanted us to look at it all.
Our adjudicator asked for information, contact notes and the telephone recordings relating to 
this incident. Morses was not able to supply the telephone recordings but did send account 
notes and copies of contact between the Morses staff and Miss M.
Our adjudicator concluded that:
- it does seem that when Miss M contacted Morses Club to query her account balance 
they did try to help and explain why it was showing as it was; and
- in relation to the allegation of a Morses staff member being rude to her, without the 
telephone call recordings our adjudicator was not able to conclude either way. So, 
our adjudicator considered that she could only go from the information available and 
she didnt have enough to say there was a failing in relation to the language used.
Miss M was not content. She asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint again. It 
seems that Miss M was wanting the ombudsmans decision to focus on the rudeness 
allegation. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I have its is clear that Miss M had raised the query about the 
minus sign in front of the figure on her on-line account before this occasion in August 2022. 
It was in July 2022 and again in August 2022. I appreciate that minus signs before figures 
can be confusing as it showed a good thing  that the customer (here Miss M) was in credit. 
But I cant find any evidence that Morses did anything wrong here. So, I do not uphold that 
part of Miss Ms complaint. I hope that the explanations the Morses staff gave has helped 
Miss M going forward. 
And it seems from the account notes that the money on account may well have been used to 
clear some of the amounts she owed to Morses and she closed a loan around that time. 
As for the allegation of the Morses staff member speaking in an inappropriate way on the 
telephone then that is sad to hear. But again, Ive no evidence from either party about that. 
And so, I cant conclude that Morses did anything wrong. So, I do not uphold that part of 
Miss Ms complaint either.
I realise Miss M will be disappointed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman