DRN-2421209
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) agreed to a mortgage in 
principle, but then withdrew the product they wanted from the market without informing them 
of its intention to do so.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D had a fixed rate mortgage with HSBC and wanted to port it over to a new 
property they wanted to buy, and in doing so they would avoid an early repayment charge of 
£3,500. 
On 11 August 2020 Mr D and Mrs D obtained a decision in principle (DiP) from HSBC. That 
set out how much HSBC may be prepared to lend them. Mr D and Mrs D then made 
arrangements to sell their house and put an offer in on a new property. When they contacted 
HSBC during the week of 14 September they learned HSBC had stopped offering mortgages 
at 90% loan to value, which is what they needed and were told that the deposit would be 
15% not 10%.
Mr D and Mrs D said HSBCs advisor had originally told them to come back to HSBC when 
their offer on their new property had been accepted, which they had done. But they had 
since learned that HSBC were may have been prepared to proceed at 90% loan-to-value, 
but only for those customers who had made an appointment with their mortgage advisor 
after their offer to purchase had been accepted and prior to 2 September 2020. Mr D and 
Mrs D said that if they had been given that information they would have made an 
appointment and thus preserved the DiP.
Mr D and Mrs D complained to HSBC asking it to honour the DiP but it wouldnt because it 
said it had reserved the right to add or remove mortgage products at any time.  And it also 
said that it didnt accept that it should have contacted all of its customers to notify them it 
was withdrawing certain products because it didnt have the facilities to make outbound calls 
to all its customers informing them of changes in its product range.  
Mr D and Mrs D were unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that HSBC hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
The facts of this complaint are largely accepted. HSBC accept that it provided a DiP to Mr D 
and Mrs D and accepts that it withdrew its 90% loan to value mortgages from its product 
range without first notifying them. It also accepts that if Mr D and Mrs D were to repay their 
existing mortgage early then there would be an early repayment charge to pay.
I should confirm that which our investigator has pointed out, namely that a DiP is only an 
indication of how much a lender is prepared to lend. It is of course subject to the usual 
checks a lender would carry out before a full mortgage offer is made. To this extent Mr D 
and Mrs D would know that they had not therefore received a full mortgage offer which 
would of course have been binding on HSBC for the relevant term of the offer. 
But that really isnt the issue here. The issue is whether HSBC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in (a) stopping offering mortgages at 90% loan-to-value, (b) not notifying Mr D 
and Mrs D of that, and whether (c) if Mr D and Mrs D should have been notified, they could 
have made an appointment with a mortgage advisor prior to 2 September..
As to the first issue, HSBC is entitled to make and act upon its own policies. That is not 
something this service can comment upon. HSBC is entitled to make commercial decisions 
in the operation of its business, and I am satisfied that that is what it has done here in 
choosing to no longer offer mortgages at 90% loan-to-value and above. All of this took place 
during the Covid Pandemic and it is understandable and reasonable that HSBC would have 
to make commercial decisions on the products it offered as a result of the uncertainty the 
pandemic generated within the financial markets, alongside its usual considerations. 
This service isnt the regulator; regulation is the responsibility of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. I can confirm that our investigator was correct in telling Mr D and Mrs D that our 
service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that, in this case HSBC, followed its 
rules and procedures  as well as those set by the regulator and any relevant industry 
guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly. 
As to the second issue of not being notified of the withdrawal of the product range, I dont 
think HSBC has been unfair or unreasonable here to Mr D and Mrs D. Commercial decisions 
such as this one need to be implemented quickly and there was no requirement for it to give 
Mr D and Mrs D notice. It hadnt given them a firm offer or any undertaking that a particular 
product would be available to them.
And in relation to the final issue, even if I had found that HSBC should have told Mr D and 
Mrs D about the change to its product range, Mr D and Mrs D told this service in their 
complaint form that it was during the week commencing 14 September that they sold their 
house and had an offer accepted on their proposed purchase. They wouldnt therefore have 
fallen into the exception bracket HSBC mentioned in its final response letter since they had 
not had their offer to purchase their new property accepted prior to 2 September.
So, although I have sympathy for the position Mr D and Mrs D found themselves in as they 
did have a DiP, I find HSBC didnt do anything wrong in altering its product range without 
notice. 
Whilst Mr D and Mrs D will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC has 
therefore acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman