DRN-4209925
The complaint
Ms B complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her claim for an escape of 
water under her home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2022 there was an escape of water at Ms Bs property. She contacted UKI and 
registered a claim. She says communication has been poor and the claim has been handled 
badly. Ms B says she had to arrange her own alternative accommodation as no-one got 
back to her. Shes had to rely on friends for somewhere to stay. Ms B says she is vulnerable 
and had a broken bone at the time of the loss.  
Ms B complained to UKI. It apologised for initially delay in getting a lass adjustor to visit her 
property. This was due to a surge of claims caused by the very cold weather. It says drying 
is ongoing at the property. And Ms B rejected its offer of alternative accommodation at a 
hotel. It says this was offered initially until something more suitable was available. UKI says 
Ms B wont allow strip out works to commence without a schedule of works. But it says it 
wont know what work is required until it can identify the extent of the damage. 
UKI offered Ms B £500 compensation for the initial delay. She didnt accept this and referred 
the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says UKI had 
provided reasonable explanations for its approach to Ms Bs claim. She thought £500 was 
fair compensation for the delays, missed appointments and incorrect dehumidifiers that 
were used.      
Ms B didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair.
My decision will consider UKIs handling of Ms Bs claim from the date the loss occurred (19 
December 2022) up until UKI sent its final complaint response. The repairs had yet to be 
completed at this point and I understand Ms B is pursuing a further complaint in this respect. 
But for clarity my decision will focus on the time period specified above. 
Alternative accommodation/Schedule of works
Ms B contacted UKI to report the escape of water on 19 December 2022. From the records 
provided she was able to stay with a friend that night as her home wasnt habitable. Im glad 
Ms B was able to find accommodation she was comfortable with at this time. The notes 
show she was offered £25 per night for the disruption caused. Ms B thought £70 was fairer 
given a hotel wouldve cost much more.
I can see Ms B continued to arrange her own accommodation up to the date of UKIs 
complaint response, and beyond. From the records the loss adjustor UKI appointed offered 
to pay £10 per day as a disruption payment. Alternatively, it was explained to Ms B that UKI 
would consider accommodation costs on receipt of relevant documentation to support the 
costs shed incurred. 
Ive read Ms Bs policy terms and conditions to see what cover she had in place. The terms 
say:
We will pay up to £25,000, in total, for alternative accommodation for you and kennel fees 
for your pets, and lost rent, if: 
 your home is uninhabitable while it is being repaired, due to a valid claim you have made 
under Section 1 
 your home is occupied by squatters. 
Alternative accommodation where appropriate will be reflective of the individuals needs. 
Each claim will be reviewed taking into account the duration, location and occupancy and will 
continue for the shortest amount of time necessary to restore your home to a habitable 
condition.  
Its clear from the records that Ms Bs home was uninhabitable after the escape of water. So, 
cover was in place to provide alternative accommodation. However, Ms B chose to stay with 
friends close to her home. I can see from the claim notes that the options for alternative 
accommodation were discussed with her at an early stage. In February the records show a 
cottage was being considered as a longer-term alternative. Ms B agreed to consider if this 
was suitable for her needs, given her mobility issues. Details of this accommodation were 
provided to her.   
A record toward the end of February says Ms B wanted to know the budget for alternative 
accommodation, and a scope of works for the repairs to her home, before agreeing. UKIs 
notes say it told her the budget depends on availability in the local area and can vary. It says 
Ms B didnt want to discuss this further without the information shed requested. 
I can see that UKIs loss adjustor confirmed a scope of works wasnt possible until the full 
extent of the damage could be seen. This involved some invasive work to remove a ceiling 
to identify the amount of damage caused by the leak. The records say Ms B wanted a less 
invasive method to be used to assess the damage and maintained that UKI provides her 
with a full scope of the repair work. 
In its complaint response UKI says without significant strip-out works, it cant progress Ms 
Bs claim. It also says it will consider costs incurred for alternative accommodation if and 
when Ms B provides this information. 
I accept that Ms B wanted to know the full extent and cost of the repair works. But UKIs 
explanation why this wasnt possible is reasonable. It says a schedule of work would be 
subject to significant change once the strip out work was completed. This seems logical and 
would mean any schedule of works prepared prior to this would be inaccurate.  
I think its fair that UKI considers any costs Ms B has incurred for alternative 
accommodation. This should be considered in line with her policy terms and conditions. But I 
cant see those costs have been provided for UKI to consider. Based on what Ive read I 
dont think UKI behaved unfairly in offering a £10 per day disruption allowance whilst Ms B stayed with friends. The records show it has discussed options with her, but to date she has 
chosen to stay with friends. Having considered the evidence, I dont think UKI has treated 
Ms B unreasonably in relation to this point. 
Additional costs including heaters
Ms B raised concerns that she paid for heaters to ensure her home remained warm and to 
avoid further damage. UKI confirms these costs have been reimbursed. It acknowledges this 
payment was delayed and offered its apologies. 
UKI says its contractors take meter readings prior to any work commencing. It can then 
calculate the energy used when the repairs are completed and pay the cost of this. I 
understand this relates to the drying machines that were being used to dry out Ms Bs home 
following the escape of water. 
I note Ms Bs comments that the wrong machines were used initially. This resulted in them 
icing up and being ineffective. UKI says the machines used were working, but it was decided 
to swop them with more efficient models to aid the drying process. 
Based on what Ive read I cant see that there are costs that UKI hasnt covered or wont be 
covering as part of Ms Bs claim.
Claim progression/communication
Ive read the timeline of events UKI supplied, the testimony Ms B set out and listened to two 
call recordings UKI provided. Based on this information I dont think it provided a good 
standard of service when progressing Ms Bs claim. Particularly at the start.  
Ms B is elderly and has mobility issues. She also has limited support available to her and 
was reliant on UKI to provide an effective response when her home became uninhabitable. 
In one of the calls Ive listened to UKIs agent tells Ms B its loss adjuster will call the day 
before they are due to attend. This was expected to be toward the end of January 2023. 
Miss B explains she isnt living at the risk address and isnt sure which friends house she will 
be staying at when the loss adjuster rings. She says she will be at the risk address for a 
period during the day but doesnt want to have to stay late, or for long periods due to the 
cold and damp. 
In the call Ms B clearly explains her circumstances. That she is elderly has mobility issues, a 
broken bone, and doesnt have a mobile phone or access to email. She is reliant on 
receiving calls at her home but staying there for any length of time is problematic. UKIs 
agent repeats the same message that the process requires the loss adjustor to ring the night 
before an appointment. She said it wasnt possible to give Ms B an appointment time. 
I dont think UKIs agent did enough to help Ms B. She was aware of her circumstances but 
repeated the same standard approach. I can see a mobile phone was provided at a much 
later stage, in March 2023. But Ms B asked if this could be provided during a call on the day 
after the claim was registered. This was in December 2022. So, I think this couldve been 
done much sooner. 
Its not clear if Ms B has been able to use the mobile phone. She comments that this was 
posted to her unannounced and she wasnt physically able to use it. I think UKI couldve 
acted sooner to provide a phone and provided support to ensure Ms B could use it. Its clear 
from the records that communication was an issue. More care in supporting Ms B to be able 
to communicate effectively with UKI and its agents, couldve lessened the delays and the 
impact on Ms B in travelling to her home in the damp, cold conditions.   Ms B says she was told by the loss adjuster that trace and access work wasnt covered by 
her policy. I can see that UKI concedes this was an error on its part as cover was in place for 
this work. However, it says no additional damage resulted from this. 
Having consider all of this, and for the reasons Ive discussed here, I think UKI should pay 
Ms B compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.  
Contractors 
Ms B says contractors and agents turned up at her house unannounced and without 
identification. 
In its response UKI says its contractors wont always carry identification. It suggested Ms B 
speak to the manager assigned to her claim to arrange for a password to be agreed. It also 
explained that once the strip-out works were complete, Ms Bs house would become a 
building site, meaning it was unsafe for her to be there. It explains it was able to arrange a 
key safe so that access could be gained. My understanding is that this would mean Ms B 
wouldnt need to be at the property. However, work couldnt begin on the strip-out work until 
this was agreed with Ms B. 
I can understand Ms Bs concern that she wasnt always made aware of who was attending 
her property or for what reason. I acknowledge that this added to the anxiety and worry she 
felt during her claim. This is linked to the communication issues I discussed earlier. In the 
circumstances I think its fair that UKI acknowledges the distress it caused with a 
compensation payment. 
In summary, I dont think UKI treated Ms B fairly with regards to the standard of 
communication. More couldve been done from an earlier stage to ensure this was effective. 
Similarly, communication regarding contractor visits to Ms Bs home couldve been better. 
Ms B was distressed and inconvenienced because of this and should be compensated. That 
said, I think £500 is fair compensation which UKI has already paid. 
I dont think UKI behaved unreasonably with regards to the alternative accommodation point 
discussed here. It confirmed the additional costs that will be refunded and was clear why 
strip out works must be completed to progress Ms Bs claim. I think this was reasonable. So, 
I cant fairly ask it to do anymore to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman