DRN-1323067
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
In July 1997 Mr and Mrs P purchased a PPI policy. The PPI covered Mr P only and it 
included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. The policy cost just over £44 each 
month and wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £750 for up to 12 months following a 
successful claim. The policy was cancelled in December 1999 and the mortgage was 
redeemed in June 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, but Mr and Mrs P disagreed with 
this. So, the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out more than 20 years ago and the policy was also 
cancelled more than 20 years ago  so its unsurprising neither party has been able to 
provide much detailed information about the sale. And in these situations, I have to look at 
what I think is more likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs P told us that they had no recollection of any meeting at any timeand that at 
no time the subject of PPI was either discussed or agreed. But Ive seen a copy of the 
Personal Financial Planning Review, signed by them in April 1997 and there are 
contemporaneous notes showing that PPI was discussed. The advisers notes say, we have 
discussed the Midland Repayment Protector and I have recommended this cover to you.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs P has given their honest recollections of the sale, but I have to 
accept that after all this time memories can and do fade, and in the absence of any strong 
testimony or recollections from Mr and Mrs P about their mortgage meeting, I just dont have 
any evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr and Mrs P 
didnt have a choice in taking it out. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P and I think the PPI was suitable for them for 
the following reasons. 
 
Mr P met the PPIs requirements, so was eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs 
costs and main benefits above. 
Mr P was working at the time, but he told us he was self-employed - so Ive looked 
very carefully at the terms and conditions to see if he was unfairly affected by any 
restrictions that can sometimes apply to self-employed people. But he wasnt  it 
wouldve been no more difficult for him to make a successful claim than an employed 
person.
 
Because he was self-employed, Mr P had no sick pay I think it was prudent for 
Mr and Mrs P to purchase PPI and I think the policy was suitable for them. And 
although they told us they had some savings, the policy wouldve allowed them to 
use their savings, in the event Mr P wasnt working, for other important things at what 
wouldve been a stressful time.
 
I dont know whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs P 
before they agreed to purchase it. I dont know if they were told it would cost around £44 
each month until after the policy had started. For this reason, Ive considered whether 
clearer information about the cost wouldve affected their decision to purchase the policy. 
But they had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely they 
wouldve made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided. 
And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, if Mr and Mrs P decided that the cost was 
unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted the policy, they couldve cancelled it without 
penalty.
I expect Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope that understand why 
I've reached the conclusion that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman