DRN-1741016
 
The complaint
Mrs M, represented by her husband Mr M, complains she was mis-sold a 'Living Assurance' 
whole of life critical illness policy by a predecessor of Phoenix Life Limited.
What happened
Mrs M took out the policy in November 1988. It was one of three policies sold to her and her 
husband at the same time. Mr M has made a complaint about his policies, which is being 
dealt with under a separate reference. 
The Living Assurance policy provided Mrs M with critical illness cover - and life cover - 
initially set at £25,000, for a monthly premium of just over £18. The policy has been reviewed 
several times since 1988 and the sum assured reduced on three occasions. At the point that 
Mrs M complained - and surrendered the policy - the sum assured had reduced to 
around £13,000.
Mr M, on Mrs M's behalf, said that the policy had been mis-sold as the adviser hadn't taken 
proper account of her circumstances. He said she had excellent employee benefits at the 
time, an existing life cover policy with another business but no alternatives to the Living 
Assurance policy had been discussed. Mr M also questioned the poor 'return' on the policy 
and the fact that the level of cover had reduced so much. 
Phoenix Life didn't uphold the complaint. It said the policy had been suitable for Mrs M as at 
the time she had a 13-month-old daughter. Having policies in sole names was sensible for 
her and Mr M as it meant cover would continue for the other party in the event of a claim. 
Phoenix Life was also satisfied the documentation completed at the time showed that Mrs M 
had wanted critical illness cover, and had not wanted to complete a full fact find.  
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator also thought it shouldn't be 
upheld. She said, in brief; 
The point of sale documentation showed that Mrs M wanted the policy and didn't 
want a full fact find completed. This document was signed by Mrs M.
Although Mrs M had income protection, her family would still have benefited from the 
additional, different type of cover provided by the policy.
Mrs M's employment benefits weren't guaranteed to remain in place  
She'd maintained the policy for over 30 years, during which time the sum assured 
had been reduced three times, and she'd never previously questioned the policy.
She would've been given information about the policy, the reviews and cancellation 
rights at the outset.
 
Mr M didn't accept the investigator's view. His response focused primarily on a previous 
decision issued by this service, which he felt very closely reflected the circumstances of
Mrs M's complaint, and which had been upheld. He also said, in brief: Mrs M denied she'd specifically wanted this type of policy and also denied that she 
refused the completion of a full fact find.
The policy wasn't suitable given her existing cover.
Mrs M relied upon the expertise of the adviser.
The sum assured has reduced by 50%, so Mrs M would've been better off with a 
policy with a proper rate of return.
 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons
I should first cover off the point Mr M has made about what he's referred to as the 'lead 
authority' decision and the apparent similarities of the circumstances of that case with the 
circumstances of Mrs M's complaint. 
As the investigator highlighted, this service considers each case on its individual merits. So, 
it's highly unlikely that the outcome of a complaint will be influenced by any previous 
decision. In any event, Mr M has not made it entirely clear which previous decision he is 
alluding to. The limited details he's provided suggest a decision that concerned a different 
type of insurance product sold many years after Mrs M's policy was sold. As such, I see very 
little likelihood of there being relevant apparent overlap in the matters.
Turning then to the specific circumstances and merits of Mrs M's complaint, I've not seen 
anything that leads me to conclude that the sale of a whole of life policy with critical illness 
cover was unsuitable for Mrs M.
I appreciate that she's denied having any desire for this type of cover and questioned why 
she would've agreed to proceeding without a full fact find being completed. But it's 
nevertheless the case that the adviser noted that she'd talked at length with Mrs M and that 
she'd asked for this policy and didn't wish to fully complete a full fact find. The review 
document that included these notes was signed by Mrs M.
Of course, completion of this type of documentation doesn't by default render advice 
suitable. But looking at Mrs M's circumstances at the time, it seems reasonable that she 
might have seen the benefit of some critical illness cover. She was married, working and had 
a young baby. In the event of her being diagnosed with a critical illness a payout of £25,000 
would've been very useful. I understand she had very good sickness and income protection 
benefits through her employer, but these weren't the same as critical illness cover and also 
weren't guaranteed to remain in place if, for instance, she changed jobs.
Of course, with hindsight it can be seen that Mrs M could've now been better off committing 
the premiums to a savings or investment product. But this was an insurance product 
designed to protect Mrs M and her family and I'm satisfied it did, and that Mrs M had a 
reasonable need for it to do so. I understand that the level of cover reduced over the years, 
but the reviews are an integral part of how this type policy works. I've not seen that Phoenix 
Life administered the policy incorrectly in any way. 
My final decision 
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman