DRN-3906394
The complaint
Miss M (through a representative) complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it 
granted her loans. Had it done so, Miss M says it wouldve realised she had poor credit 
history. 
What happened
Miss M was advanced three instalment loans by MoneyBoat, and a summary of her 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £200.00 07/09/2017 28/02/2018 6 £59.31
gap in lending
2 £250.00 24/10/2018 23/09/2019 6 £66.94
3 £250.00 01/04/2019 outstanding 6 £76.98
Based on the statement of account provided by MoneyBoat, Miss M has had some problems 
repaying her final loan because only one payment of £76.98 was made towards it on 
30 April 2019. 
Following Miss Ms complaint MoneyBoat wrote to her representative on 30 March 2022, 
outlining the checks it had carried out before these loans were approved and it considered 
the checks to be proportionate. The checks also showed these loans were affordable for 
Miss M and so it didnt uphold her complaint. Miss Ms representative then referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be partly upheld. After 
pointing out that in his view, there was two chains of lending, he concluded that MoneyBoat 
had made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1 and 2. 
However, he thought loan 3 should be upheld. because the adjudicator could see in the 
credit check results MoneyBoat received that Miss M had defaulted on four credit accounts 
in the year before this loan was granted and two of these defaults were recorded within the 
four months before the loan was advanced. 
Neither Miss M nor her representative responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
As MoneyBoat hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment and in order to bring this 
matter to a close, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was 
able to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
It seems neither Miss M (or her representative) or MoneyBoat appear to disagree with the 
findings the adjudicator reached about loans 1 and 2. So I dont believe these loans are in 
dispute and therefore I wont be making a finding about them. 
Instead, this decision will focus on loan 3, because this is the loan the adjudicator 
recommended be upheld, and as MoneyBoat hasnt said whether it agrees, I have 
considered the loan to bring this complaint to a close.  
Loan 3Similar sorts of checks were carried out for this loan as they had been for Miss Ms previous 
loans. MoneyBoat asked Miss M about her income which she declared was £1,320 per 
month. 
She also declared monthly outgoings of £510. As part of the application process MoneyBoat 
says it did the following.
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had 
disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement. Having taken this extra measure to ensure the loan 
was affordable for you, you still displayed enough disposable monthly income to 
meet the monthly repayments in full.
As a result, it increased Miss Ms monthly expenditure by a further £290. Therefore, for its 
affordability assessment MoneyBoat used a monthly expenditure figure of £800. Which left 
disposable income of £520 for Miss M to make her monthly repayments of £76.98. 
MoneyBoat has also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the results it received. It is worth saying here that although 
MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let 
alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat cant do is carry out a credit search 
and then not react to the to the information it received.
When this loan was approved, MoneyBoat was aware that Miss M owed other creditors 
£5,538 spread across 21 active accounts. The number of active accounts is in my view quite 
high. However, MoneyBoat knew that only three new accounts had been opened within the 
last six months. So, this wouldnt suggest Miss M was reliant on or a regular user of high-
cost loans.
In addition, MoneyBoat was aware, Miss M had defaulted on a total of seven accounts. 
However, four of these accounts were defaulted within the year before the third loan was 
approved. But, looking into these defaults more closely, which MoneyBoat couldve done 
because it had the data available to it. It showed it, that Miss M had defaulted on a payday 
loan in December 2018 and then an unsecured loan in January 2019. Both defaults 
occurring around three months before this loan was advanced. 
This to me, does suggest that Miss M was likely having immediate and current financial 
difficulties due to how recent the defaults were in relation to when this loan was approved. 
So, like the adjudicator, I do think, this showed Miss M was already having problems 
maintaining her commitments and so any further borrowing was likely to be unsustainable. 
However, in addition, to the defaults, there were further signs, which reinforces Miss M was 
likely having problems managing her existing debts when the loan was approved. 
Looking into the information MoneyBoat was provided it wouldve seen that Miss M had an 
unsecured loan which was being recorded as being one month in arrears and then on top of 
this she had two loans marked as being provided by a Finance House. 
One of these was three months in arrears  indicating that three months of missed payments 
had been missed  and the account had been in arrears for a total of five months. Although, 
in the month before the loan was approved, Miss Ms arrears situation had improved, as the 
account had moved from being four months in arrears to three, indicating Miss M must have 
made up some payments. But nonetheless the repayments hadnt been made on time and in 
line with the credit agreement. The other Finance House loan was also three months in arrears, with the status of the loan 
account deteriorating each month  so increasing the arrears indicating that Miss M wasnt 
likely meeting her existing credit commitments towards this loan.
Given the recent defaults, and the building up of arrears on three other accounts I do think 
this is a clear indication that Miss M was likely having current financial difficulties when 
MoneyBoat approved the third loan. The fact she was apparently, struggling to keep her 
existing credit commitments up to date, means MoneyBoat ought to have realised Miss M 
was unlikely to be able to meet her repayments for this loan in a sustainable manner. 
Im therefore upholding Miss Ms complaint about loan three only, and Ive outlined below 
what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for her.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan three to Miss M, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss M any of her loans. If MoneyBoat has sold the 
outstanding debts it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. 
If MoneyBoat is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 
three and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal towards the loan. If this results in Miss M having made 
overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss M.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file 
in relation to the loan.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint in part.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss M as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman