DRN-4210028
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an error in administering his foreign 
currency account which resulted in a delayed transfer of funds, causing him to lose money.
What happened
Mr C holds a currency account with Barclays. Mr C had asked Barclays to close another 
account he held with it, and as a result Barclays closed the currency account in error. 
On 2 September 2022 Mr C visited a Barclays branch to arrange a transfer of funds from his 
currency account to a sterling account. Because the currency account had been incorrectly 
closed he was unable to complete this transfer. Barclays took steps to correct the issue with 
Mr Cs currency account, and he was able to make the transfer on 9 September 2022, but by 
that time the exchange rate had changed and so he lost out financially because of this delay.
Barclays had looked into Mr Cs concerns about this issue and, to resolve his complaint, it 
offered to pay him the difference between the exchange rate it was offering on the 2 
September and the exchange rate Mr C received on 9 September  £554.25. Barclays also 
offered Mr C a further £445.75 as compensation for the impact of its error.
Mr C didnt feel this offer was fair. He says that when he first visited the branch to make the 
transfer he was intending to use a broker, which would have offered a much better exchange 
rate. He wants Barclays to pay the difference between what the broker would have offered 
him on 2 September 2022 and what he received when he was able to make the transfer on 9 
September 2022.
Barclays said it would consider this if he could provide evidence of the exchange rate the 
broker was offering that day. But although Mr C provided an email from the broker setting 
out the exchange rates available on 2 September 2022 Barclays did not consider this to be 
adequate evidence of any additional loss over and above the offer it had already made, so it 
was not willing to increase its offer. 
As Mr C remained unhappy one of our Investigators reviewed his case. Overall, they felt that 
Barclays offer was fair, and did not think they could ask it to increase its offer based on the 
evidence Mr C had provided. 
Mr C didnt agree, so he asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 8 June 2023. Both sides have since 
confirmed that they accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
To be clear, both parties do seem to be in agreement that a fair resolution to this
complaint is for Barclays to reimburse Mr C his losses, based on the difference in the
currency exchange rate between 2 September 2022 and 9 September 2022. I agree this is 
the fairest way to resolve matters. So, what is left for me to decide is how Barclays should 
most fairly calculate those losses.
Mr C says that he should receive the rate the broker told him was available on 2 September 
 which he says was noted down on a leaflet when he was in branch. Whereas Barclays has 
calculated his losses based on its own exchange rate on those days. 
My role is to try and put Mr C back, as near as possible, to the position he wouldve been in,
had it not been for any shortcomings on Barclays part. So, this means putting
Mr C in the position he wouldve most likely been in, had he been able to make the transfer 
as he wanted to on 2 September 2022. And I think it is clear from all the correspondence 
Mr C has had with Barclays and with our service that, if he had been able to make the 
transfer that day, he would have used the services of a broker to ensure he obtained the 
best exchange rate.
So as long as Mr C has evidence of the rates the broker would likely have used, I consider it 
is fair for his loss to be calculated on the difference between the rate he ultimately got on 9 
September and the rates the broker was offering on 2 September. 
Barclays has said that the evidence Mr C has provided does not prove the loss he is 
claiming. Mr C has provided an email, from the broker he would have used, giving the range 
of exchange rates that were available on 2 September. The broker cant, however, pinpoint 
the exact rate Mr C would have received as rates fluctuate throughout the day. Mr C has 
also provided a handwritten note which he says is the rate the broker was offering while he 
was in the branch on 2 September trying to make the transfer.
Barclays has said it would need something from the broker on headed paper stating the 
difference in rates and showing the loss that Mr C is claiming. But I dont consider it is 
reasonable to say that the evidence Mr C has provided is inadequate. The email from the 
broker is from an individual who does appear to work for the specific foreign exchange 
broker, is from an email address associated with that broker, and has the appropriate footers 
and other details identifying it as an email from the broker. I cant see why something on 
headed paper would be necessary here as there appears to be no question about the 
legitimacy of this email. 
I also dont think it is reasonable to expect the broker to pinpoint the specific rate that Mr C 
would have received on the day, we cannot know exactly what time the transfer would have 
taken place, so it seems entirely reasonable to me for the broker to have provided a range of 
possible exchange rates, as he has done. And I think it is worth noting here that the rate 
Barclays has used to calculate Mr Cs loss is not within the range set out by the broker.
Overall, I am satisfied that, had Mr C been able to make the transfer as he wanted to on 2 
September 2022, he would have received a rate within the range set out by the broker. So I 
consider it is reasonable to use that range to calculate the appropriate compensation that 
should be paid to Mr C.
 
Mr C has provided us with a handwritten note, which he says is the amount he was told he 
would have received at the time he was trying to make the transfer. This amount is within the 
range set out by the broker, and Ive not seen anything to make me think this handwritten 
note wasnt made at the time and under the conditions Mr C says it was. I do note that Mr C has said he did not use the broker when he ultimately was able to make 
the payment on the 9 September. But Mr C has explained this is because he had been 
clearly told by Barclays that he would not lose out financially because of what had 
happened. With what Ive seen so far this does not seem to me to be an unreasonable 
action on Mr Cs part.
On that basis I am intending to find that a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint 
would be for Barclays to calculate Mr Cs loss using the figure he recorded on the day he 
intended to make the transfer - £172,115.78. This equates to a loss of £1,596.60.
Mr C has also made further comments about the potential impact of the error regarding his 
currency account. Ive though carefully about what hes said regarding what could have 
happened. But my role here is to ensure he is appropriately compensated for what did 
happen, and Im satisfied that the additional payment for distress and inconvenience that 
Barclays has already offered - £445.75  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, so I wont be asking it to increase that aspect of the compensation paid to Mr C.
As both Mr C and Barclays have accepted my provisional findings, I have no further 
comments to add to what I have already said, and my decision remains unchanged from the 
provisional findings set out above.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Barclays should:
- Pay Mr C £1596.60, representing the financial loss he incurred, and
- Pay Mr C £445.75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman