DRN-1369473
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2006 with a 
mortgage. Mr P and Mrs F say that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr P and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I dont have all of the documents from the time of the sale. Due to the time thats passed 
since the mortgage and MPPI were sold I dont think this is unreasonable, these events 
happened over 13 years ago. So Ive looked at all the submissions to find what I think is 
most likely to have happened in this case.
Mr P and Mrs F have said they were not told the PPI was optional. Halifax has said the 
optional nature of the policy would have been clear. From what we know about the way 
these policies were sold, its more likely that Mr P and Mrs F would have had to agree to the 
cover to get it, and they would have known they had a choice about doing so. I note that the 
documentation from the time uses the language of choice. The letter dated 7 April 2006 
starts by saying, Thank you for choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). 
So, having taken everything into account, I think Halifax most likely made it clear that Mr P 
and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this now, many years later. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr P and Mrs F so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover 
and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Mr P and Mrs F told us they had some sick 
pay but it wouldnt have lasted longer than six months in total. And they also told us they had 
no other means they could rely on. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months if 
they were too ill to work, or if they lost a job. So, I think the policy could have been useful to 
them. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. Ive thought about everything Mr P and Mrs F have said but these points dont change my 
decision.
I have looked at all of the information available to me, and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman