DRN-1983389
The complaint
Mr H complains about the fees that he says have been paid to JTM Financial Services 
Limited (JTM) for ongoing advice in relation to his pension plan. He says he took out the plan 
with another adviser and hasnt received any advice from JTM, so would like the fees to be 
refunded.  He also complains that the plan fell in value in 2018/2019 and he thinks this could 
have been avoided if JTM had carried out the reviews he thought hed been paying for.
What happened
Mr H joined a previous employers Group Personal Pension Scheme (GPP) in 2003. Advice 
around joining the scheme was given by an adviser who Ill call firm F. In 2005 JTM took 
over firm Fs clients and continued to offer advice to the remaining employees up to and 
beyond the time the business closed in 2012. JTM said Mr H didnt take up any of the offers 
for advice either at work or in his home. But JTM did continue to receive the ongoing 
commission from the individual pension policies that were payable to firm F.  
In February 2020 Mr H received his annual pension statement. He noted that JTM had 
received a fee which he didnt think it should be receiving, so he contacted the pension 
provider and asked it to cancel the ongoing adviser fee. There has been a misunderstanding 
over whether the payments were stopped immediately but thats the subject of a separate 
complaint from Mr H to the pension provider. 
However, as a result of reviewing his plan Mr H became aware that over £4,000 had been 
paid to JTM in ongoing fees. So he complained to JTM as well. He said he hadnt authorised 
such payments and hadnt received any financial advice from JTM in respect of the fees. He 
said the policy had been mis sold to him and he hadnt been made aware of the costs 
involved. He also noted that the plans value had fallen by over £2,700 during the previous 
calendar year. 
JTM didnt uphold the complaint. It said the initial advice to take out the pension was 
provided by another firm  which it took over in 2005. It said it had tried to engage with Mr H 
on a number of occasions but hadnt received a response. With regards to the ongoing fees 
it explained that these were fund-based commission charges which had been paid as part 
of the initial commission payments. They werent ongoing adviser fees and didnt relate to 
the provision of further advice  so they werent obliged to refund the payments. But JTM did 
offer to reimburse Mr H for the fees it had received after the date he had asked the provider 
to stop them from.
 
But Mr H thought JTM should refund all the fees it had taken from him, so he brought his 
complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said JTM didnt make a new fee agreement with Mr H so 
wasnt able to charge any additional fees  for advice as an example. 
But it was able to receive the original fund-based commission that had been agreed when 
the plan was first set up. So he didnt think JTM had done anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree. 
He said it wasnt fair for a firm to be able to take over the management of his pension and 
continue to take fees from it without notification or reason. He asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ive seen the 
strength of feeling Mr H has about this matter and I have some sympathy for his position 
here as he doesnt believe hes received any benefit for the ongoing fees hes paid. But I 
dont think JTM has done anything wrong here, which isnt the outcome Mr H hoped for  so 
Ill explain my reasons. 
Should JTM refund the ongoing fees?
Historically commission paid to the financial adviser when a pension was taken out was 
called initial commission. But product providers would also pay a smaller amount of 
commission to financial advisers  usually each year  based on a percentage of the current 
value of the fund, which was called fund based or trail commission. Sometimes the initial 
commission was reduced so that fund-based commission could be taken and spread over 
the term of the plan, so as to have less effect on the funds performance in the early years. 
But, in any case, both payments were in respect of the initial advice given and not tied to any 
ongoing services or advice.
Since the Retail Distribution Review of 2012 product providers are no longer allowed to pay 
commission directly to financial advisers who should be remunerated for their work by the 
payment of a separate fee. But Mr Hs plan was taken out pre 2012, which means that the 
rules in place for commission from his pension continued, instead of being replaced by a 
separate fee. So there was no obligation on the original adviser or JTM to either provide 
ongoing advice or stop taking the fund-based commission.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that was submitted by the original adviser to the 
provider on 1 April 2003. The form was signed by Mr H and above his signature was a box 
which stated, I agree to fund-based fee being paid to my independent adviser of 1% each 
year of my total fund value. I understand that this fee will be levied by the ongoing deduction 
of units from my personal pension in addition to the standard charges and is in addition to 
any initial of fund-based commission. The fund-based fee may only be selected at plan 
commencement. It will apply to your entire fund including future contributions from all 
sources.
So, I think Mr H was made aware of the ongoing fee that would be deducted from his plan 
and that it would continue to be deducted throughout the term of the plan. I know Mr H says 
that the costs werent explained to him and I dont know what was discussed between Mr H 
and his original adviser all those years ago. But this information was provided within the 
application form  which Mr H signed, so I think he was made aware.
The original adviser was taken over by JTM in 2005 and the existing clients, who were 
employees of the firm and members of the GPP, became JTMs responsibility. So, Ive 
carefully considered the agreement that was drawn up between the two firms in order to 
ensure continuation of services. 
Regarding the commission payments the agreement included, in addition, firm F shall 
transfer all policy renewal commission on behalf of his transferred clients.So, Ive concluded that JTM was able to claim any ongoing commission that was payable on 
the individual GPP plans  which included Mr Hs. I know Mr H says he wasnt made aware 
of this situation, but I dont think JTM was obliged to advise him specifically of that change as 
it was entitled to the commission under the terms of the agreement  and the original firm 
had made it clear that the commission would be payable at the rate of 1% of the fund each 
year.   
JTMs responsibility to provide ongoing advice
Having said that the fees paid to JTM didnt obligate it to provide ongoing advice  because 
the fees related to the initial advice, I do think JTM had a duty of care to Mr H as a client 
from 2005 when it took over the previous advisers business.
I think that duty of care involved contacting Mr H for an initial review of his situation and 
agreeing a way forward in terms of frequency of future reviews, any charges it levied for 
ongoing reviews and Mr Hs own preference for how often he wished to review matters. 
And Ive seen a copy of a generic letter dated 3 May 2005 that JTM sent to the clients it took 
over from the previous adviser. It said please contact us whenever you think we may be 
able to assist, and we will always do our best to help. Our contact details are printed on this 
letter and we look forward to providing the level of service you want in the future. All you 
need to do is call us and we can begin to help.
I havent seen any response from Mr H to that letter, although I cant be sure that he did 
receive it. But JTM has referred to a number of other attempts to meet with Mr H and review 
his situation and discuss a forward plan.  It said that throughout 2006 and 2007 it met with a 
number of employees from the same firm both at their place of work and in their homes. It 
said Mr H didnt take up any of these offers. It also said another adviser attempted to meet 
with Mr H in 2011  and completed some preparation in advance of a meeting to which Mr H 
didnt respond. 
Although JTM no longer holds any records of its attempts to meet with Mr H I am persuaded 
that it continued a relationship with a number of the other clients who were all based in one 
location some distance away from the advisers. So, on balance, I think that JTM did try to 
contact Mr H and I think that contact would have led to a general discussion about fees and 
how he would pay for any advice going forward and would probably have resulted in a new 
formal client agreement being set up. I say that because it would have been in JTMs interest 
to speak with as many employees as possible when it came to visit, and I think it was likely 
to have included Mr H in those invitations. 
 
And because Mr H didnt have an agreement with JTM to receive ongoing advice, I dont 
think JTM was obliged to continue trying to contact him and I think it had satisfied its duty of 
care at that time. But even if I am wrong about JTMs attempts to contact Mr H I still think 
that he was made aware that fund-based commission payments were to be taken from his 
plan  and that JTM was entitled to receive the payments when it took over the previous 
advisers clients, which included Mr H. 
Mr H has suggested that the fall in his pensions value during 2018 could have been avoided 
if it had been regularly reviewed. But of course, if JTM had reviewed Mr Hs plan theres no 
evidence to suggest it would have recommended that he switched to a different provider or 
fund based purely on performance. So, I cant safely say Mr Hs loss in 2018/2019 would 
have been avoided anyway, and I cant conclude that was JTMs fault.  
I note JTM made a goodwill offer to refund the fees that it received after Mr H had asked the 
provider to stop payments  which is the subject of his complaint with the provider. Ive seen the cheque it sent to Mr H although I dont know if he cashed the cheque. So, if he didnt, Ill 
leave it to Mr H to discuss that matter further with JTM. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman