DRN-2390447
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (when it was trading under a different business 
name) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1988. In 1990 he took out PPI which protected his mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr P mainly said that following publicity about mis-selling of PPI realised he was mis-sold 
PPI with his mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps mis-selling complaint. Mr P disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr P told us that when he tried to make a claim on the policy he was 
unsuccessful  so he cancelled the policy at that point. 
The complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Heres why I say this.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. Bank of Scotland cant provide anything 
signed by Mr P from the sale  but thats not a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
I wouldnt reasonably expect a business to keep records about a mortgage account that 
closed over 20 years ago. And its completely understandable, given how long ago this sale 
happened, that Mr P doesnt recall how he was sold this PPI. 
Where theres only limited information I have to look at all the available information and 
decide what I think is most likely. So Ive thought carefully about the likely circumstances that 
led to Mr P having PPI on his mortgage account. 
It looks like Mr P didnt take out PPI when the mortgage started  his mortgage had already 
been running for just over a year without PPI before PPI appeared on his mortgage account.
So at the time, I think that Mr P would've understood that PPI wasnt required as part of the 
mortgage and that it was up to him to say if he now wanted it.
The mortgage was a major financial commitment and, when he took out this PPI, Mr Ps 
mortgage term still had around 23 years left to run. 
It looks like Mr P was arranging to borrow some extra money on his mortgage account 
around about this time. 
Mr Ps home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI 
provided dependable cover and significantly better protection than it looks like he had 
otherwise. So, I can see why Mr P mightve felt PPI was useful to have  even if he didn't 
choose to take it out at the start of the mortgage. 
Mr P would've had to fill in a separate PPI application to take out PPI. Based on the 
information I've seen, I think its likely that Mr P decided he did want the benefits that PPI 
offered, possibly because he was now borrowing extra on his mortgage account, and it was 
added to his mortgage account at his request.
Neither Mr P nor Bank of Scotland can say if he was recommended to buy PPI. If a financial 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to make sure 
the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information in a clear 
way. So, to be as fair as possible to Mr P, Bank of Scotland has looked at this complaint on 
the basis that it advised him to take out PPI with his mortgage. So Ive looked at Mr Ps 
complaint this way also. 
Bank of Scotland told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date 
Mr P took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which it went on to use  so I think 
its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr P took out wouldve had similar terms 
and conditions.
It looks like Mr P was eligible for the PPI. 
Ive taken into account that Mr P told us he was self- employed  and that if he wasnt able to 
work he wouldve been able to rely on his savings. 
But if he made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy wouldve paid out a benefit 
for up to 12 months per claim. This couldve been useful since Mr P wasnt able to rely on 
getting sick pay from an employer. 
And PPI couldve covered him if hed become unexpectedly unemployed and he met the 
conditions for making a successful claim. 
I dont know if Mr P wouldve always had savings he could rely on if hed needed to make a 
claim. So, I think the policy couldve still been useful for Mr P to have.
Overall, looking at everything Mr P told us about his circumstances, I think that PPI was 
suitable for him.   
I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr P was affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. Being self-employed when he took out the PPI wouldnt have made it 
any harder for Mr P to make an unemployment claim than it wouldve been for someone who 
was employed. So, I think it unlikely that having better information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations wouldve affected Mr Ps decision to take it out. 
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. I dont know if the PPI 
cost was made clear to Mr P when he bought the policy. But he took it out when he didn't 
have to  Mr P hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. I've seen nothing to make me think that paying for the PPI was a problem for him. This was 
a policy Mr P paid for monthly so he couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra cost if he no 
longer wanted it  as Mr P later did in 1994. 
Ive taken into account what Mr P has told us about what happened when he tried to claim 
under the policy. But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took it 
out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint.
Looked at overall, taking into account Mr Ps particular circumstances and the benefits the 
policy gave him, I dont think its likely that having clearer information about the policy 
wouldve put Mr P off buying it. So I dont find that Mr P has lost out financially as a result of 
anything that Bank of Scotland did wrong. 
This means theres nothing that Bank of Scotland needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P. But I hope that setting things out 
as Ive done helps to explain the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman