DRN-3462891
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W have a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI which covers their 
house and its contents, amongst other things.
They bought their house in 2017 and in April 2019 they made a claim having noticed cracks 
in their garage and the main part of the house.
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so Ill summarise it very briefly 
here.
In short, UKI have accepted that the garage at the property is subject to subsidence. And 
theyre covering the cost of repairs to the garage and removal of nearby vegetation which is 
suspected of causing the subsidence.
The real contention in this case is about the damage to the main part of the house and the 
conservatory. Mrs W and Mr W believe this is caused by subsidence and should be covered 
under their policy. 
UKI say there is no evidence of damage to the main part of the house or the conservatory 
caused by subsidence. Their experts have suggested the damage is likely caused by 
shrinkage or thermal movement, which is not covered under the policys terms.
Mrs W and Mr W have complained to UKI on two separate occasions about the handling of 
the claim and about delays and poor communication.
UKI provided final responses to those complaints in April 2021 and December 2021. They 
accepted there had been delays and poor communication with Mrs W and Mr W. And they 
paid £550 in total to Mrs W and Mr W in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Mrs W and Mr W brought their complaint to us in January 2022. They werent happy with 
UKIs latest response. They want UKI to accept that the damage to the house is caused by 
subsidence, accept their claim, and carry out the required repairs.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think UKIs decisions about the cause of the 
damage were unfair or unreasonable in light of all the evidence available. 
However, she thought there were unnecessary delays caused by UKI or their agents and, at 
times, poor communication with Mrs W and Mr W. And she said UKI should pay Mrs W and 
Mr W a further £750 in compensation - and ensure that the repairs to the garage were 
completed as soon as possible.
Mrs W and Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They 
believe UKI should accept their claim relating to the damage to their house and 
conservatory. 
Theyre concerned that their house has lost value and would only regain it if what they see 
as the subsidence issues are addressed. And failing that, they want a certificate from UKI to 
say that the house is not subject to subsidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the substantive issues in this case, I need to be clear about what issues Im 
considering in making this decision and, more specifically, what time period Im looking at.
Our service operates under dispute resolution (DISP) rules set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Those rules say that if a customer complains to a financial business and 
receives a final response from that business, they then have six months to bring that 
complaint to us if theyre unhappy with the businesss response. 
If its brought to us after more than six months has passed, we cant consider it  unless the 
business consents or there are exceptional reasons to explain why the customer couldnt 
refer the matter to us earlier.
Mrs W and Mr Ws first complaint to UKI received a final response in April 2021. This clearly 
referred Mrs W and Mr W to us if they werent happy with the outcome and clearly stated 
that they had six months to make their complaint to us.
Mrs W and Mr W brought their complaint to us in January 2022  more than six months after 
UKIs formal final response in April 2021. So, the rules which govern our service mean that I 
cant consider the issues raised by Mrs W and Mr W in their first complaint. 
UKI have been clear that they dont consent to us looking into those matters, given that they 
were brought to our attention late. And there are no exceptional circumstances to explain 
why Mrs W and Mr W couldnt have brought that complaint to our attention earlier.
UKI provided a final response to the second complaint in December 2021  and Mrs W and 
Mr W complained to us the following month. So, I can consider the issues raised in that 
complaint.
Im sorry this is a rather technical explanation of the statutory rules which govern our service. 
But its important to recognise that in effect I can only consider whats happened to Mrs W 
and Mr W  including any decisions made by UKI, and/or any delays and poor 
communication  between April 2021 and December 2021.
Anything before that was covered in April 2021s final response from UKI  and was not 
brought to our attention in time. 
And if Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy about anything thats happened after the second final 
response in December 2021, they would need to make a further complaint to UKI and then 
bring that to us if they arent happy with the outcome. 
Thats because the DISP rules also say that a financial busines must have an opportunity to 
consider and resolve any complaint from a customer before that complaint can be considered by us.
Of course, that would apply to any further delays  after December 2021 - in the repair work 
being carried out to the garage.
Turning now to the substantive issues in the case, Ill first consider whether its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to conclude that the damage to Mrs W and Mr Ws is not caused by 
subsidence.
Again, there is a long and involved history to this case. But Ill try to summarise the key facts, 
which I dont think are in dispute. 
After receiving the claim, UKI appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the property. They thought 
the damage to the garage required further investigation, but the damage to the house was 
unlikely to have been caused by subsidence. 
A different loss adjuster was then appointed. They set up monitoring of the cracks, obtained 
an arboriculturists report and recommended UKI accept liability for the claim relating to the 
garage. 
In essence, neither loss adjuster believed that the damage to the house was caused by 
subsidence. The second loss adjuster carried out several inspections and monitoring of the 
cracks and believed the evidence supported their conclusion.
Mrs W and Mr W werent willing to accept these findings and commissioned their own 
surveyor to provide a report on the property. Their conclusion was that the house was likely 
subject to subsidence and this was the cause of the damage and cracking.
UKI then sent a surveyor to carry out a further inspection, but they again concluded that the 
damage was not caused by subsidence.
At this point, UKI suggested an independent inspection, to be carried out by an expert Mrs W 
and Mr W were happy with. Im satisfied that was a fair and reasonable way to try to resolve 
the impasse arising from the previous surveyors disagreements about the cause of the 
damage.
That inspection was carried out in October 2021. The surveyor concluded that his inspection:
 did not reveal any evidence to suggest that significant foundation instability 
currently afflicts the building.
He noted nominal disturbance, which he said wasnt caused by subsidence or by 
movement in the foundations of the building. 
He thought that since the garage had been affected by subsidence it might be prudent to 
reduce vegetation in the area, but he said there was:
 little evidence to suggest the foundations serving either the main building or the 
conservatory have suffered from significant seasonal movement exacerbated or 
otherwise by vegetation in close proximity.
As I say, Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably in having that independent inspection carried 
out. And Im satisfied its not unfair or unreasonable for them to conclude  on the basis of all 
the expert evidence and opinions available  that the house is not suffering from subsidence. To put it very simply, three experts think there is no subsidence affecting the house  one of 
whom is entirely independent. One expert  appointed by Mrs W and Mr W  thinks that 
there is evidence of subsidence. Its not unreasonable in that context for UKI to conclude 
that the likelihood is that the damage is not caused by subsidence.
Of course, Id expect UKI to keep an open mind on this issue if in future Mrs W and Mr W 
can provide further evidence  or if indeed, the damage progresses in such a way as to 
suggest that a further inspection is warranted to look again at whether subsidence has 
begun to affect the house.
However, I cant reasonably conclude that UKI have done anything wrong in deciding that 
subsidence isnt currently affecting the house, based on all the currently available evidence.
I can understand Mrs W and Mr Ws concern about the value of their house. But thats not 
the issue I have to consider when I look at what UKI have done in their handling of the claim.
I dont think anyone is disputing that the house has cracks and damage  and that may 
affect its value. The question for me is whether that damage is covered by Mrs W and 
Mr Ws policy. And, as I say, Im satisfied its not unreasonable for UKI to conclude that the 
damage isnt caused by subsidence, which would be covered, but by other causes, which 
are not covered.
Mrs W and Mr W have said theyd like a certificate from UKI to confirm that their house is not 
affected by subsidence. I dont think that would be necessary or particularly useful. Mrs W 
and Mr W have several letters from UKI confirming their position on the claim (that the 
damage isnt caused by subsidence) and they have copies of expert reports which say the 
same thing.
So, I dont think UKI have made any errors in their decision making on this claim. However, 
they have admitted that there were unnecessary delays. In the period that I can look at (see 
above), it took the best part of six or seven months to get from the impasse which arose after 
Mrs W and Mr Ws surveyors report (in March 2021) to the inspection by the independent 
surveyor (October 2021).
In that period, there were also several failures in the communication with Mrs W and Mr W. 
Again, UKI have admitted that the service they or their agents provided wasnt of the 
required standard. 
Im aware that UKI had already paid some compensation to Mrs W and Mr W. But they 
agreed with our investigators view that, taking everything into account, a further £750 in 
compensation would be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Ive considered the degree of stress, concern and inconvenience suffered by Mrs W and 
Mr W during the relevant period (which Ive outlined above) as a result of the delays and 
poor communication caused by UKIs admitted failings. 
Bearing in mind the significance of the claim to Mrs W and Mr W and what was at stake for 
them, Im satisfied that level of compensation (a further £750) is not unreasonable. And I 
bear in mind, of course, that UKI agreed after our investigator suggested that amount when 
she gave her view on the case. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
U K Insurance Limited must pay Mrs W and Mr W a further £750 in compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman