DRN-4084133
The complaint
Mr B says National Westminster Bank Plc irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B was approved for a credit card from NatWest on 1 October 2019; it had a £2,850 credit 
limit. Mr B says he should never have been given the card, his current account was with 
NatWest and he had only just been given a £2,000 overdraft. Less than six months later, he 
was approved for a NatWest loan for £10,000. He says he was young, unemployed and 
could not afford any of this credit.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint about the credit card. She found NatWests 
checks before lending were proportionate and did not show any signs that the card would 
not be sustainably affordable for Mr B.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to be clear, this decision only considers Mr Bs credit card with NatWest, his other 
borrowing has been looked at in separate complaints.
Our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the key rules, 
guidance and good industry practice  is on our website. And Ive followed this when 
deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B
would be able to repay what he was being lent without any adverse consequences before 
providing any credit to him. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial
difficulty.
I can see NatWest asked for some information from Mr B before approving his application. 
He confirmed a monthly income of £1,462 and that he was living with his parents and had no 
housing costs. NatWest verified his income by checking the average monthly credit turnover 
in his current account, and that he had no housing costs using an external credit agency. It 
estimated his living costs to be £589 using national statistics. It carried out a credit check 
which showed he had debt of £100 and no monthly credit commitments. Based on these 
checks NatWest concluded Mr B would be able to sustainably repay the credit limit of £2,850 
that it offered him.
I think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances, and I cant see there were any 
signs that Mr B might struggle with the credit. 
Mr B has told us he was unemployed at the time and could not afford the credit. I can see 
from his bank statements in the months prior to his application that he was receiving regular 
credits into his account which in fact exceeded the total income figure NatWest used when 
assessing his credit card application. Mr B also told us he was working part time and some 
of the credits received into his account were from his parents. I accept this may have been 
the case, but NatWest would not have known from its automated account turnover check 
that these credits were not a fixed source of income - indeed they were regular. I think its 
reasonable that NatWest lent to Mr B on this basis given the type and value of credit 
involved; the cost of a sustainable monthly repayment (assuming the credit limit was used in 
full) and what its other checks showed.
I accept that Mr Bs financial position may well have been worse than the credit check
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to NatWest at the time of his
application. And it is also possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But I 
think in the circumstances of this application NatWest was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
results of the checks it carried out. There wasnt any adverse information shown on the 
credit check, or significant outstanding debts elsewhere and his other accounts showed a 
credit balance, so I think NatWests checks were proportionate and its lending decision fair.
This means I dont agree that NatWest acted irresponsibly by approving Mr Bs credit card 
application or by granting him a £2,850 limit. Considering the credits going into Mr Bs 
current account, his credit profile and his estimated outgoings, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to conclude Mr B would be able to repay the debt sustainably.
I cant see that NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way. He 
says that it did not respond after he told it he was having financial difficulties and he was 
doing everything he could to prevent a default on his credit file. But the bank has shared its 
contact records and I am satisfied it managed Mr Bs account fairly when it fell into arrears. 
His account has since being transferred to its Specialist Support Team and all activity to 
recover the debt was put on hold whilst this investigation was ongoing. Interest and charges 
have not been applied during this time, but there is no agreed payment plan in place so I 
would urge Mr B to contact the team straight away on 0800 168 9472. NatWest has 
confirmed a default has not been registered on Mr Bs credit file for this account as yet. 
I would remind NatWest of its obligation to continue to treat Mr B fairly, and with 
forbearance. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman