DRN-2284111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly imposed new fees on their 
investment accounts and then without their permission sold shares from the accounts to pay 
the fees.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out several investments with HSBC in 2006  a joint Selected Investment 
Funds account and two Selected Investment Funds ISAs in their sole names. In 2019 they 
noted that HSBC was applying charges to the accounts that didnt appear to be as agreed to 
at the outset. They were concerned that these charges werent in accordance with the terms 
and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs R questioned this with HSBC and were told that the new charges stemmed from 
changes it had made relating to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Retail Distribution Review 
(RDR) rules, which had been brought in to improve transparency and fairness in pricing for 
customers. As part of this, HSBC, along with other financial service providers, had 
introduced a new pricing structure involving new clean classes of shares coupled with an 
account fee.
HSBC explained how these changes had been communicated to its customers, first in 2012 
when they were introduced, then in 2015 when legacy share classes  such as those held 
by Mr and Mrs R  were converted to the new clean class and the account fees started to be 
charged. Overall, HSBC was satisfied it was entitled to introduce the new charging structure, 
had communicated it correctly and applied the charges correctly. 
A complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusions 
as HSBC. She felt that the changes had been reasonably communicated and, on balance, 
that all the relevant letters had more likely than not been sent to Mr and Mrs R. She said that 
by accepting the share conversion in 2015 they had effectively accepted the changes, along 
with the amended terms and conditions that accompanied them. The investigator was 
satisfied that the overall process adopted by HSBC was reasonable given the change in 
regulations brought about by the RDR. 
In respect of Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about shares having been sold to cover the account 
fees, the investigator was satisfied that HSBC was entitled to do so, in accordance with its 
terms, and that there had been no requirement for it to notify them in advance that it was 
going to sell the shares. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the investigators view. They felt she hadnt been impartial and 
had accepted HSBCs position without proper investigation. They also commented, in brief: 
The primary issue concerned the correct application, or otherwise, of the original 
terms and conditions. 
The dispute had nothing to do with bits of paper (the various letters sent by HSBC 
explaining the changes) and whether they had been received, but rather whether 
HSBC was right to send them in the first place.
There was nothing incumbent in the RDR that businesses should charge lost 
commissions to investors by way of new account fees. The changes to their charges 
arose from a commercial decision on the part of HSBC.
The terms and conditions didnt provide for the changes to be made for the reasons 
given by HSBC and, in any event, the required time frames had not been adhered to.  
In respect of the second part of the complaint concerning the selling of shares to pay 
fees, the RDR rules required openness and transparency, but HSBC had been 
secretive about the sale of shares.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She noted what Mr and Mrs R had 
said about the changes arising from a commercial decision by HSBC to introduce new 
charges, rather than as a requirement of the RDR. But she felt HSBC was entitled to make 
that sort of decision providing it was clearly communicated, which she was satisfied it had 
been.   
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy. They reiterated their position that the terms didnt provide 
for HSBC making the changes it had. So, as no agreement could be reached, the matter 
was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr and Mrs R have strong feelings about HSBCs actions. Theyve provided 
detailed submissions to support their complaint, which Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust they wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I note some minor ancillary issues were raised and dealt with in HSBCs final response 
letter, regarding interest, dividends and tax credits. These appear to have been addressed, 
so Ill focus on the two primary issues of concern  the introduction of the new fees and the 
sale of shares to pay for them. 
The fees
I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs R understand why the changes occurred  in response 
to the RDR  and have accepted the conversion of the shares in their investments. What 
they remain unhappy with are the steps taken by HSBC to change how they are charged as 
a result of this. Their concern is primarily with whether the terms of the investment allowed 
HSBC to do what it did. 
Id say first that I consider the actions HSBC took in light of the new RDR rules to have been 
reasonable and in keeping with the actions of similar financial service providers across the 
industry. It was a regulatory requirement that changes be made, to increase fairness and 
transparency, and I think what HSBC broadly did was broadly consistent with that 
requirement.
I appreciate the points Mr and Mr R have made in respect of whether the original terms 
applicable to their 2006 investment allowed for the changes to be made. The wording of 
section 14 of those terms, relating to charges, does use the word increase, which wasnt 
strictly applicable in this case as the changes to the charging were more of a restructure 
rather than a straightforward increase in fees or costs. But I dont think the section of the terms was intended to reflect the sort of changes brought about by the RDR  changes that 
couldnt have been predicted in 2006. And there was also provision at section 25 in the 
terms for amendments to be made in certain circumstances, by reason of any amendment 
to the Regulations or the Rules. 
But in any event, in deciding whether (or not) a complaint should be upheld, I have a wide 
remit to make findings that are, in my opinion, fair and reasonable. I must have regard for the 
law and relevant industry regulations, but I am not bound by them So, although Ive given the 
terms due consideration, Im not restricted or obligated to apply them to the letter where I 
consider the actions of the HSBC to be generally fair and reasonable. 
And having reviewed how HSBC managed and communicated the changes it was obliged to 
instigate in response to the RDR, I think its actions were fair and reasonable. I think it was 
right to send the letters it did, when it did and that in doing so gave reasonable notice of the 
changes. Comparisons were provided of the before and after situation, that showed the 
changes in many cases were actually reducing the overall cost of ongoing management of 
the investments.
I note what Mr and Mrs R have said about it being a commercial decision to introduce the 
account charges, rather than a requirement of the RDR. But the aim of the RDR wasnt to 
reduce costs to consumers (although as noted, its implementation may have done so some 
circumstances), it was to make charging fairer and more transparent. And I think the 
changes made by HSBC and the way in which they were communicated to Mr and Mrs R did 
this.  
Selling of shares  
Both the original terms and the amended terms applicable from 2015 onwards made 
provision for any outstanding fees to be paid by way of the sale of shares. And there was no 
requirement that prior notice be given for this. Details of the sales would have been shown 
on account statements issued since the introduction of the account fees in 2015. 
This is common industry practice and, in my view, a fair and reasonable way of operating the 
accounts. So, I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly in making the sales of shares as it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman