DRN-3843594
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) declined his claim 
for damage to his sofa under his Fabric Accidental Damage Cover.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr H made a claim to Acasta for damage to the fabric in the footrest area of his sofa. He 
said he got up one morning and found the hole in the fabric of his sofa. He doesnt know how 
it happened. He said it wasnt there in the evening and then following day it was. 
Acasta declined the claim as it concluded that the damage had been caused by wear and 
tear and it wasnt a result of a one-off incident of accidental damage.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt there was a lack of evidence to support 
accidental damage and from the available evidence the damage would appear to have been 
caused over a period of time from wear and tear which isnt covered by the policy. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for the case to be looked at again by an Ombudsman. So, the 
case has been passed to me. 
On 6 December 2022 Mr H asked this service for more time to reply. He was asked to 
specify what further information he wanted to provide and granted an extension to 14 
December 2022. Mr H replied on 9 December 2022 and said he should have something to 
send within 7 days (he didnt specify what). He was asked if it could be sent by close of 
business on 15 December 2022. 
On 17 December 2022 Mr H said he needed more time (didnt specify how much time) as it 
was a busy time of year and he also made us aware he was having medical treatment for his 
medical condition. I granted a further extension until 3 January 2023. As of 12 January 2023, 
weve had no further contact from Mr H. Considering the extensions already provided and 
that Mr H hasnt indicated what further information he wanted to provide to evidence that the 
damage was not caused by wear and tear; Im satisfied to proceed with this decision on the 
information I have already been provided with by both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to determine is whether Acasta has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Hs claim in the light of the terms and conditions of the policy. I conclude that it 
hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive looked at the policy, it covers accidental damage (including staining) resulting in 
a rip or tear, burn or staining from any substance. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) or the sudden and unforeseen 
contact between the product(s) and a substance resulting in a stain to the product(s) subject 
to the exclusions listed under Section 5 What is not Covered. 
The policy says it provides cover for specific accidental events and stains and is not a 
general cleaning or maintenance contract. So, for a valid claim there must have been a 
sudden and unforeseen event that caused a rip, tear or burn to the fabric. Mr H hasnt been 
able to identify an event that caused the damage. I have therefore gone on to consider if the 
evidence determines that the fabric has been forcefully pulled apart as it would in an 
accident that burnt, ripped, or tore the fabric. 
Ive looked at the technicians report and photographs. The technicians professional opinion 
is that the damage isnt consistent with a one-off accident but has occurred by abrasion over 
time causing the material to wear and fray. Having looked at the photographs I can see 
some stitching still in place and the frayed material surrounding the hole. It appears that the 
fabric has worn thin in this area which would support that this damage is consistent with 
wear and tear rather than a one-off accident. I havent seen any clear evidence of a clean 
rip/tear or burn which could indicate accidental damage. Bearing in mind Mr H has also not 
been able to identify an event that caused the damage and the information provided by the 
expert technician, Im persuaded that it is more likely than not that the damage has occurred 
due to wear and tear.
Ive looked at the policy and under what is not covered it determines that it doesnt cover 
any damage resulting from wear and tear.
In summary, I conclude that Acasta hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the 
claim. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, however Im satisfied that 
this is a fair outcome considering the available evidence and the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
9 February 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman