DRN-3249097
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited consider him to be in persistent debt and have
prevented him from transferring his outstanding balance to another credit card provider.  
What happened
Mr B says that Vanquis wrote to him to say that he was in persistent debt, so he made a
large payment to reduce the outstanding balance. Vanquis sent him another letter after the
payment to say he was still in persistent debt, so Mr B made further payments to reduce his
balance. He says he reduced his outstanding balance from £2,000 to £750 and he has paid
more in capital repayment than he has in charges and fees and therefore he shouldnt be
classed as being in persistent debt.
Mr B says that Vanquis applied a block to his card which they wont remove due to him being
in persistent debt. He says this impacts on him clearing the outstanding balance as he tried
to transfer his outstanding balance to a third party company, but this failed.
Mr B contacted Vanquis in December 2020, to ask them about this. He says the initial call
handler he spoke to told him the balance transfer may have failed due to his address not
being accurate, which Mr B didnt think was the case. He then spoke to another call handler
who he says told him that he wouldnt be able to transfer his balance since there was a block
on his credit card. Mr B says the call handler refused to remove the block so his balance
could be transferred elsewhere. Mr B says as a result of this, he is paying high interest to
Vanquis when he shouldve been able to transfer the balance to a third party provider on an
introductory 0% balance transfer interest rate.
Mr B made a complaint to Vanquis. He said that he did not receive correspondence from
them about his card being blocked and hasnt received all of the letters that Vanquis say
theyve sent him about persistent debt. He doesnt believe that he should be considered as
being in persistent debt due to the payments hes made. He referred them to a call he had
with them on 15 December where he told them he received poor customer service on this
call.
Vanquis partially upheld his complaint. They said they would credit £25 to his Vanquis
account due to them not being able to locate a call he had with them on 15 December 2020,
so they couldnt review the service they gave him. They also explained to Mr B that
communications had been sent to him, that he was at risk of having his card suspended if he
didnt make a payment agreement with them, which he hadnt. The letter said that he would
be out of persistent debt when the outstanding balance was zero.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She
said that Vanquis had sent Mr B correspondence to say the card would be blocked by 1
October 2020, if he didnt respond to the letter. They also said they had sent Mr B persistent
debt letters when required by the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and so
she said Vanquis hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr B said that he wanted an Ombudsman to review his complaint as he hadnt received
some of the letters which Vanquis said they sent. He said he never considered himself to be
in persistent debt and his statements prove he has always made his payments and extra
payments. Mr B said he was told on the call on 15 December that the reason the balance
transfer failed is because there was a block on the card. The outstanding balance of the
credit card has since been paid off. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to both Vanquis and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Vanquis should have placed a persistent debt block
on his account. I know Mr B feels strongly that he wasnt ever in persistent debt and didnt
consider himself to be in persistent debt. But Vanquis have to follow the rules set by the
FCA. This includes their definition of what persistent debt is (which includes a customer
paying more in interest and fees over a set period of time compared to paying off the
principle balance). Im satisfied that Vanquis followed these rules here and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the figures from March 2017, which Vanquis have explained was the starting
point here. The figures that Ive been provided with show that from March 2017 - 3 March
2020, payments from Mr B between these dates totalled £4,680.43. The interest and
charges during this timeframe were £2,604.38. So as Mr B had paid off £2,076.05 off his
principle balance (£4,680.43 payments, minus £2,604.38 interest and charges), this meant
he had paid £528.33 more (£2,604.38 interest, minus £2,076.05 towards his outstanding
balance), in interest and charges over this timeframe and this would therefore meet the FCA
definition of him being in persistent debt. So Im satisfied that Vanquis had to place the
persistent debt block on his account in these circumstances to fulfil their duties set by the
FCA.
Vanquis have explained that once the persistent debt block is in place, the only way it can be
removed is if the balance is fully repaid - if nothing had been agreed to get the account out of
persistent debt.
So Ive looked at the communications which Vanquis sent prior to this and to see if anything
had been agreed. Vanquis had sent several letters to Mr B. But it appears that when he
changed his address with Vanquis, his address wasnt changed to the exact address he
instructed them to send correspondence to. So it is difficult to say what Mr B received and
didnt receive. Even when he contacted them again about his change of address and it was
amended, it wasnt amended to the address exactly how he gave it to them.
But I am persuaded that Mr B knew he was considered to be in persistent debt. I can see
that Vanquis sent him a text message in August 2019 informing him of this and a one off
figure he needed to pay in addition to his monthly payment to come out of persistent debt.
After Vanquis sent Mr B a letter in March 2020, explaining that he would need to increase his
monthly payment to approximately £270 to retain the use of his credit card, he completed an
income and expenditure assessment which Vanquis confirmed they received by text
message to him on 10 March 2020.From the figures Mr B provided in March 2020, he input zero for all of the figures, which
would suggest he didnt have the affordability to pay higher payments for the persistent debt
block to be removed and the ability to still use his card. So even if he did start to pay off
higher monthly payments around this time to his account, I cant hold Vanquis responsible
for the figures he provided to them, showing he had no income at the time. As the figures
showed he had no income then it would have been irresponsible for Vanquis to have made
an arrangement with Mr B here.
Ive also considered, that because of the pandemic, Vanquis delayed suspending the card
and wrote to Mr B in September 2020, to give him another opportunity to increase his
payments to £270 a month if he completed another income and expenditure assessment.
But Im not persuaded that Mr B received this letter as he didnt respond to the deadline of 1
October 2020, when he had previously responded to communications from Vanquis. So, as
previously mentioned, as the address did not match up to what Mr B had given them, I cant
say it was the postal systems fault that Mr B says he didnt receive this letter.
Its difficult to say whether Mr B would have been able to afford the increased payments
consistently as he previously input zero figures just six months earlier, for his income. But he
was making payments to Vanquis during this time. On occasions he made payments a lot
higher than £270 a month and on occasions he made payments a lot lower than £270 a
month. Mr B hadnt paid the higher payments suggested previously when he did receive
communication from Vanquis - which may suggest he was unable or unwilling (such as his
email to them in July 2019) to make the higher payments. But as Mr Bs last communication
with Vanquis was the income and expenditure which didnt show any income, Im not
persuaded that Vanquis were unfair for not removing the persistent block here.
Ive considered how Mr B attempted to transfer his balance to a third party but he was told
conflicting information about this. There is no doubt that this will have been frustrating for Mr
B as he was told the persistent block was stopping a balance transfer and then he was told
the balance transfer didnt go through because the address on file didnt match up.
Ive been in communication with Vanquis regarding this issue as Mr B is aware. Vanquis
have explained to me that the persistent debt block wouldnt stop a balance transfer from
completing, but, due to how the third party provider Mr B used in this instance to process the
balance transfer, have processed the transfer, then they are aware of this issue with the
specific provider only. Vanquis have confirmed theyre not aware of a specific reason why
this is - as it isnt part of their internal processes.
I know that Mr B strongly believes that this explanation is nonsensical. But Im persuaded
that this isnt a result of a Vanquis system fault. I say this as I had not disclosed to Vanquis
the provider that Mr B was trying to transfer his balance to when they told me they were
aware of only one provider whos systems wouldnt be able to process a balance transfer
when a persistent block was on an account. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask
Vanquis to refund the interest on his account as Mr B wants them to, based on the individual
circumstances here as I cant hold them responsible for third party systems.
But I am satisfied that Vanquis provided poor customer service to Mr B. I say this as his
address was not changed to the exact address he gave them, even when Mr B told them to
amend his address months after he had originally instructed them of his change of address.
So it is difficult to say which important pieces of information Mr B missed out on because of
this.
Mr B was also told conflicting information about why his balance transfer didnt go through.
Im satisfied that this would have been frustrating for Mr B, at a time when he wanted to
move his balance elsewhere. So I think it would be fair for Vanquis to recognise the impact
these issues would have had on Mr B. Vanquis should provide Mr B with furthercompensation of £250. I say this as the £25 they credited to Mr Bs account on 23 December
2020, was in relation to a call recording they could not find. Im not persuaded that this
reflects Mr Bs address being incorrect for a number of months on their system, at a time
where some very important letters were being sent out, or the conflicting information that Mr
B had received more than once regarding his balance transfer. So it follows I intend to ask
Vanquis to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Vanquis replied and said they had no further comments to make. Mr B replied and 
he said that while he didnt agree with my provisional decision, as the matter has taken a 
long time, he will accept the compensation proposed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask Vanquis to pay Mr B a further £250 for 
distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.    
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should pay Mr B a further £250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman