DRN-2075653
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE has refused to repair her sofa under her 
warranty policy. 
What happened
Mrs W says a stain was caused after dye transferred from a bag that was placed on her 
sofa. She tried to clean the stain, but it made it worse. So, Mrs W made a claim to 
Great Lakes for it to be repaired. 
Great Lakes sent a technician out to look at the sofa. Mrs W has both a two-seater and 
three-seater sofa.  The paperwork the technician had, said the stain was on the incorrect 
sofa. However, the technician inspected both sofas on the visit, after Mrs W pointed this out. 
The technician reported to Great Lakes that he didnt see any evidence of dye transfer to the 
sofa and only noticed marks to the sofas that he said had been present on a previous visit to 
the property. The technician reported the marks had built up over time from use of the sofas. 
He tested the cleaning product Mrs W said shed used and found no issues with it.
Great Lakes declined the claim as it didnt think an insured event had occurred and as the 
marks werent due to a one-off event, it said there was no cover under the policy for them to 
be cleaned or the sofa repaired. Mrs W complained about Great Lakes decision, but it didnt 
change its position, so she brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
Great Lakes had provided a report from an expert which said there was no evidence of dye 
transfer to the sofa. He thought Great Lakes had dealt with the claim fairly.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigator and provided further photographs of the marks to her 
sofa. The investigator said they didnt change his opinion but passed them on to Great Lakes 
for it to review. Great Lakes has confirmed its opinion remains the same that there is no 
evidence of dye transfer and the marks reported arent caused by an insured event under 
the policy.  
Mrs W asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the policy terms, I can see there is cover under the policy for staining 
caused by sudden and accidental dye transfer from newspaper print and / or clothing. The 
bag Mrs W says caused the staining is a material bag and therefore Great Lakes agreed to 
consider the claim under this section of the policy. However, the policy also states that 
damage caused by wear and tear consistent with the initial quality of the product and the 
manner in which it is used, is specifically excluded. 
The technician reported there was no evidence of dye transfer and said the marks on the 
sofa were consistent with its use rather than a one-off event.  As part of his report he 
provided pictures of the sofa. He also said the marks on the sofa were present on his 
previous visit. 
Great Lakes has provided me with the report from the technicians previous visit to the 
property which again included pictures of the sofa. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Great Lakes to have relied on the opinion of the technician 
when declining Mrs Ws claim.  The technician would be considered an expert in the damage 
Mrs W has reported. Great Lakes also obtained the opinion of a senior technician before 
declining Mrs Ws claim.
Ive looked at both of the reports that have been provided and the pictures they included, as 
well as the photos Mrs W provided. Having done so, and in the absence of any expert 
evidence to the contrary, Ive not seen anything which persuades me the findings reached by 
the technician were obviously wrong. And as such, I dont think Great Lakes has acted 
unreasonably here in declining Mrs Ws claim. 
The policy does exclude cover for wear and tear and in the technicians opinion these marks 
are a result of the use of the sofa over time.  There are marks to the sofa noted in both 
reports, so I dont think this conclusion is unreasonable. As outlined above, the policy will 
only provide cover if the damage is due to a sudden and accidental dye transfer. And, on the 
balance of probabilities, I dont think this has been shown to be what happened here. 
I think Great Lakes has dealt with this claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms.  I wont therefore be asking it to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman