DRN-3952875
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold him a whole of life 
policy. He wants Aviva to refund his premium payments, plus interest.
What happened
Mr S says that in October 1985 he was a student. He recalls he may have been looking for a 
contents insurance policy for his student accommodation, although he also mentions he was 
looking to save or invest. He says the adviser tried to sell him a term assurance policy which 
he declined. The adviser then recommended a whole of life policy. The basic sum assured 
was £3,221, and £46,666 with profits, and the premium was £15 a month. Mr S agreed to 
apply for the policy but says that, aged 19, he didnt understand the different types of 
policies. He complains that the policy wasnt suitable for him because he was a young 
student with no dependents or mortgage.
Aviva said, based on the limited evidence it held, it thought its adviser had acted with 
reasonable care and skill and that Mr S would have been provided with documents during 
and after the sale which allowed him to make an informed choice about whether to take out 
the policy or not.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
little evidence from the time of the sale, but that she hadnt seen enough to persuade her 
that Mr S didnt want a life policy. And, based on the rules and regulations in place at the 
time, she couldnt conclude the policy wasnt appropriate.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He didnt set out to purchase life insurance because he didnt need it.
The policy wasnt suitable for his needs, age and circumstances and resulted in financial 
difficulty having to keep up with the premium payments when he was a student not 
earning income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was taken out more than 35 years ago and there are limited records available 
from that long ago. Naturally Mr Ss memory of what was discussed will have faded over 
time and I cant be sure exactly what was discussed. I therefore reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The advice to take out the policy was taken before the Financial Services Act (1986) came 
into effect. As the investigator explained, where a business provided advice when selling a 
product to a consumer, it had a duty to act with reasonable care and skill and make a 
recommendation that was appropriate, or a was a reasonable degree of fit for the 
consumer.
Ive considered everything carefully and, taking into account Avivas obligations at the time, 
I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the following reasons:
Mr S was very young when he took out the policy, but I dont find it follows that he wouldnt 
have understood the basic difference between a life policy and a savings plan. I can see the 
application form he completed was headed, Application for Life Insurance and Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that he would have been given product information to help him 
understand the main features of the policy.
Mr S says he may have been looking for contents cover for his student accommodation, but 
he also says he was thinking about investing in shares and unit trusts. Im not surprised Mr S 
cant remember exactly why he ended up in a discussion with Aviva, because it happened so 
long ago. Mr S says he didnt contact Aviva because he was seeking to buy life cover, but 
I cant be certain that was the case. In any event, it doesnt mean it wasnt appropriate for 
cover to be discussed.
I understand Mr Ss concerns about the sale. I accept he was young with no, or limited, 
income and that he didnt have a mortgage. But, for a competitive monthly payment, the 
policy provided with profits cover for his wider family in the event of his death. I cant 
conclude this isnt something Mr S wanted at the time.
Mr S says he didnt have enough income to meet the premium payments and that this led to 
financial difficulties. But I cant see that he missed any monthly premiums. And, bearing in 
mind he recalls he was interested in investing in shares, its likely he had the money to afford 
the premium for this policy. Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that the policy led to 
financial difficulties.
It's possible Mr S could have taken out a different policy or an investment or savings plan. 
But, whilst there may have been more suitable alternatives for his money, it doesnt make 
the whole life policy he took inappropriate.
Mr S raised concerns with our investigator about the validity of the policy because he was a 
foreign student. But Aviva confirmed this wouldnt have affected a claim under the policy 
terms.
Overall, I cant conclude the policy wasnt a reasonable fit for Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman