DRN-1676791
 
Complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK plc permitted payments to be made out of his account 
using details from a debit card that it had told him would no longer work.
Background
Mr G has a current account with Santander. He was issued with a debit card which he used 
to make payments from the account. He contacted Santander in July 2019 to tell it that the 
card was damaged. Santander sent him a new card. Mr G says that the letter which 
accompanied the new card told him that he should cut the damaged card up. It also said that 
once he began using the new card the old one would no longer work.
Mr G got the new card and started to use it. He says that he then realised that payments had 
been taken out of his account, by an online site, using his old card. He says that there were 
a significant number of payments. 
Mr G says that Santander should not have permitted any of these payments from a card 
which it knew had been destroyed and did not exist. So, he complained to Santander.
Santander investigated his complaint. It said that when Mr G had reported the damaged 
card, its adviser had told him that the old card wouldnt be blocked. It said that the new card 
had the same long number as the old card which Mr G had registered with the online site. 
And, it also said that Mr G had confirmed, in August 2019, that the payments to the online 
site were valid. 
Mr G didnt agree and so he complained to our service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint. She didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that Mr G had been 
aware of the payments made to the online site and he had consented to them. She thought 
that, in these circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for Santander to have taken these 
payments from Mr Gs account.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with what our investigator said. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr G says that Santander shouldnt be able to take a card payment out of his account when 
the card has been destroyed and no longer exists. 
I can see that the letter Mr G received from Santander said that once the new card was used 
the old card would no longer work. Mr G says that this means that the online site where hed 
registered his old card shouldnt have been allowed to take any further payments. I can see why Mr G might have thought that. So, Ive looked at the circumstances that led to the 
payments being taken from his account.
When a payment is taken out of an account the key issue that has to be considered is 
whether the customer consented to that payment being made. There are various ways that 
consent can be given and these are usually set out in the terms and conditions. So, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Gs account.
The terms and conditions state that a payment instruction can be given by using the debit 
card, card details or electronic wallet. So, this makes it clear that a payment instruction can 
be made using the physical card or simply by using the card details. When Mr G registered 
his card with the online site he provided it with the card details, and not the card itself. 
Mr G says that when his old card was damaged and destroyed the card details changed. Ive 
asked Santander about that. It has explained that whilst the expiry date and the 3 digit 
security code on the reverse of the card would be different the long number didnt change. 
And, it is the long number which is required in order to make a payment from the account. 
So, even though the damaged card had been replaced the important card details, the long 
number, hadnt been changed.
Ive also noted that when Mr G reported his card damaged the adviser told him that the old 
card wouldnt be blocked. So, if Mr G didnt want the online site to continue to hold his card 
details he wouldve had to contact it for that change to be made. The situation wouldve been 
different if his old card had been lost or stolen. If that had happened then the old card 
wouldve been blocked, hed be given a new card and the long number on the new card 
would be different.
Ive also thought about whether Mr G knew about the payments to the online site. And, 
whether he consented to them at the time that they were made. Mr G says that Santander 
shouldve stopped the payments being made. But, he hasnt disputed that he carried out the 
transactions on the online site at these times. Ive also taken into account that when 
Santander contacted Mr G in August, he confirmed that he recognised the payments. 
So, having looked at everything here, Im satisfied that Mr G did consent to these payments 
and that Santander didnt do anything wrong when it allowed them to be made. In the 
circumstances, I dont require Santander to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman