DRN-2152954
The complaint
 Miss C complains about faults with a static home she purchased with a Conditional Sale 
Agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF).  She would like to reject the home.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with our investigators view for the following reasons: -
Miss C evidenced the damp problem with her static home with an independent 
report. The report is brief but confirms a significant damp problem. With moisture 
levels measured at over 30% it notes this indicates probable structural damage, 
deterioration inevitable and remedial action necessary. It suggests failure of a ceiling 
to wall seal with possibly missing or incorrectly fitted insulation. The report 
contradicts findings from two warranty claims which found the problem to be water 
ingress due to poor maintenance. But I think its clear that there are significant issues 
that no one could reasonably conclude were due to anything Miss C has done
BPF accepts works needs to be done to the home but feels repair rather than 
rejection is reasonable. It says Miss C can have the use of another home at no costs 
whilst repairs are carried out. And has pointed out that the home is a holiday home 
not one Miss C should be living in.
I am not sure how Miss C uses the home is valid. She has given us proof that it isnt 
her permanent residence. But whilst she is there, she should reasonably expect it to 
be fault free and fit to live in.
I dont think in this case repair is a satisfactory solution. As I understand it repairs are 
needed to all the rooms so this is a significant amount of work. that would require 
Miss C and her family, which includes young child, to move out. 
I am also conscious Miss C bought the home as new so should reasonably have 
expected it to be fault free. She has already tried unsuccessfully to resolve the 
problem twice using her warranty insurance. She feels he relationship with the 
supplier of the goods has failed. I think it probably has and I think its unlikely she 
would feel confident in any repairs carried out.
 My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Barclays Partner 
Finance  should:-
Cancel the finance agreement and reclaim the static home at a mutually agreeable 
time for both parties
Remove any adverse information, if any, from Miss Cs credit file as a result of  
cancelling the agreement
Refund Miss Cs £10,000 deposit adding 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 25% of Miss Cs payments made from February 2018 (from when the 
problem became apparent) to date to compensate for inconvenience and impaired 
usage of the home. Simple interest of 8% to be added from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman