DRN-4161827
The complaint
Mr N complains Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) failed to call him 
back as promised, to discuss the financial support he needed.
What happened
Mr N says he requested support from Tescos vulnerable customer care team, but it failed to 
get back to him for some months. Mr N says it wasnt until after Tescos written response to 
his complaint it agreed to waive the interest on his credit card account for two months and 
refund  some of the interest hed been charged. Mr N says if Tesco had contacted him 
sooner he could have repaid the borrowing earlier than he did. Mr N wants Tesco to 
compensate him with £900, the amount he would have paid, if this matter had been dealt 
with sooner. 
Tesco acknowledged Mr N asked them initially via social media to contact him, but as he 
hadnt completed the secure link provided at that time it wasnt able to. Tesco accept it failed 
to call Mr N back following further contact from him after arrangements were made to call 
him back in March 2023. Tesco says it has apologised and refunded the interest and 
charges debited in February 2023 of £54.93 and paid Mr N £50 by way of compensation. 
Additionally, Tesco accepts it failed to call back again and paid Mr N a further £25 by way of 
apology. 
Tesco says its vulnerable care team agreed a repayment plan in early March 2023 and 
agreed to waive interest for a further two months and the credit card account has since been 
closed. 
Mr N wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt while Mr N had suffered service shortfalls, Tesco had adequately 
compensated him for that and agreed a payment plan and had done enough to put things 
right. 
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr N to have requested a 
telephone call from Tesco to discuss his financial situation and for this to be ignored. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Tesco acted fairly when it provided the 
redress it did to Mr N and if that is sufficient here. 
The first thing to say is Tesco have accepted it didnt provide the level of service it should 
have when on two occasions, its promise for its vulnerable customer care team to telephone 
Mr N wasnt kept.
So here its fair to say Tesco didnt provide the level of service I would expect to see, 
particularly when Mr N asked for its vulnerable customer care team to call him. But without 
trying to minimise the frustration this would have undoubtedly caused Mr N, I am satisfied 
the redress Tesco have provided here is fair and reasonable. 
I say this because while Mr N may not agree, its not my role to penalise businesses when 
service issues like this arise, but to see it provides an apology and a proportionate level of 
redress. Here Tesco paid Mr N £75 by way of compensation and refunded interest and 
charges for February 2023 totalling £54.93. In addition, having then discussed Mr Ns 
financial situation it agreed the payment plan he wanted and agreed to waive interest for two 
months. 
Overall, I feel this is a reasonable level of compensation and support given by Tesco for the 
issues Mr N faced. 
While Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman