DRN-2475506
The complaint
Mrs W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited gave her misleading 
information about the benefits due to her following the passing of her husband. 
What happened
Sadly in 2017 Mrs Ws husband passed away, Prudential wrote to Mrs W within a month of 
this to offer her a choice of how she could take the benefits due to her from the policy. It set 
out that Mrs W could receive monthly benefits of £149.81 or a cash lump sum of £4,696.00.
Mrs W called Prudential to accept the monthly annuity. However, the next day Prudential 
realised it had made a mistake and actually the monthly annuity available was only £24.59. 
So it said it would send her a revised offer.
After receiving the revised offer Mrs W called to say she now wished to take the cash lump 
sum.
More recently through a professional representative, Mrs W raised a complaint that 
Prudential had unfairly highlighted the option of the lump sum and presented the annuity 
figures in a misleading format. The representative believed this had been done to persuade 
Mrs W to take a lump sum, which he thought must have been done to save it money.
It seems Mrs Ws representative was unaware that the initial letter incorrectly inflated the 
annuity figure and the annuity available to Mrs W was actually much smaller.
Our investigator looked into matters and felt that Mrs W was aware of the options available 
to her and with all the correct information wouldnt have chosen to take an annuity in any 
event. But he felt that Prudentials error would have meant that Mrs W wouldve suffered a 
loss of expectation that wouldve been particularly upsetting given her husband had just 
passed away. He recommended Prudential award £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Prudential in response said it had put matters right quickly. And there was nothing to suggest 
that Mrs W was unhappy with the service shed received at the time. It said it was only after 
a DSAR request was made by a third party that a complaint was made. So it didnt agree 
with the investigators recommendation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the conclusions reached by the investigator are unreasonable 
and so I wont be departing from them.
At the time of Prudentials error, Mrs W had just suffered a bereavement and it wouldve 
been distressing for her having to deal with matters. Because of Prudentials mistake she 
had to make and receive additional calls all in relation to her husbands passing  which 
wont have been easy for her. And she also suffered a loss of expectation after choosing to 
continue with the monthly payments, only to be told that actually the monthly payments were 
only a sixth of what had been quoted. 
In the representatives submission to the service, whilst the complaint itself was incorrectly 
interpreted, it was mentioned that Mrs W had suffered distress in dealing with matters. I 
appreciate that this would be distressing regardless but I do think Prudentials mistake 
wouldve added to this. Prudential did rectify matters quickly, and so the loss of expectation 
was only over a short matter of time. But due to the sensitivity of the situation I think this 
alongside the additional calls will have caused Mrs W additional undue distress.
Prudential have pointed out that Mrs W didnt complain at the time and this complaint was 
only raised after an information request from her representative.  I have taken that into 
account, but it seems likely Mrs W remained unhappy with events as she contacted the 
representative in the first place. Overall, I think Mrs W was caused some distress regardless 
of how the complaint was formed and I think the £200 recommended is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mrs 
W £200 for the trouble and upset its error caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman