DRN-2256810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a policy taken out in 1994 in connection with a further advance on Mr 
and Mrs Cs joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work because 
of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Mr and Mrs C are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, and 
that they were put under pressure to buy it. They say they werent given a proper choice 
about taking the cover. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs C have said.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much evidence from the point of sale, which isnt 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Its also similar to other cases Ive seen. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C and
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I dont think I can fairly
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
- Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions.
- Mr C was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and he says he and Mrs C had some savings.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Cs employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs C could use Mr Cs employer benefits and 
their savings to pay for other expenses if things went wrong. So, I think the policy 
wouldve been useful to them, despite their existing arrangements. 
- Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs C needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs C experienced difficulties with Halifax when they first complained, 
and it took some time for them to receive the banks final response. I can appreciate their 
frustration at how long it took the pursue the complaint, but this doesnt change my overall 
conclusions about the complaint. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman