DRN-2869803
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way PayPal Europe SARL & Cie SCA responded when he 
complained about an item he purchased on PayPal credit.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr H purchased an audio book course using PayPal credit.
Mr H says he was misled into purchasing the course and didnt find out until after hed 
entered into the agreement that he wouldnt be able to earn enough to pay back the cost of 
the course in 6 months as hed thought but that instead he would be lucky to break even in 
the first year.
Mr H filed a significantly not as described claim with PayPal and asked to cancel the 
transaction. In response, PayPal said that the claim fell within buyer remorse, which wasnt 
covered by its buyer protection policy. It declined the claim and said Mr H was responsible 
for paying the balance under the credit agreement.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that having reviewed the information 
provided, she didnt think that PayPal had dealt with the claim unfairly.
Mr H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 is relevant to this complaint. It allows a consumer to claim a refund of money paid 
to a supplier in specific circumstances. The credit provided  PayPal  is jointly liable with 
the supplier if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. A breach of contract 
is where the supplier fails to do something that the contract says it must. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract.
My role here isnt to decide whether section 75 applies. Rather, I need to think about 
whether PayPal made a mistake in the way it considered Mr Hs claim. Theres nothing to 
suggest that a breach of contract has occurred here. Mr Hs case is that the course was 
misrepresented. So, Ive focussed on that.
Mr H says he was impressed by the webinar presentation. He says he was misled into 
thinking that he could recoup the cost of the course in 6 months. Mr H hasnt provided the 
webinar, so I cant be certain of the content. Mr H hasnt said that he was told that he would 
recoup the costs of the course in 6 months  this seems to be an assumption he made. Mr H 
has also said that his decision to purchase the course was reckless and influenced by the 
fact hed been out of work for some time.
Ive reviewed all the information that Mr H provided. However, based on what Ive seen, 
there isnt any evidence that an untrue statement of fact was made. And its clear that there 
were other factors in Mr Hs decision to buy the course.
I cant see that PayPal considered Mr Hs claim under section 75. Had it done so, I think it 
would have rejected the claim on the basis that there isnt enough evidence to show a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Ive looked at how PayPal considered the claim. It dealt with it as a buyer remorse claim. I 
appreciate Mr H has said that his claim wasnt a case of him changing his mind. Thats why 
Ive focused on section 75 above. To the extent that PayPal dealt with the claim under buyer 
remorse, I think it did so fairly.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that PayPal has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman