DRN-1779556
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim made for 
uninsured losses, under their legal expenses cover. 
For ease, when I refer to Amtrust, this includes reference to the acts or omissions of its claim 
handlers. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr and Mrs K's property was damaged when a car crashed into their house, 
causing substantial damage. A claim was made against insurance for the damage to the 
property. However, Mr and Mrs K wanted to claim for the uninsured losses they incurred. So 
they turned to the legal expenses cover they took out as optional cover with their buildings 
and contents insurance. That cover is provided by Amtrust. 
Initially, Amtrust declined the claim as although property damage was covered, there was an 
exclusion if it related to a motor vehicle. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with that and the claim was 
sent to solicitors to review.  The legal opinion given was there wasn't sufficient evidence to 
show the claim had prospects of success or that the claim was proportionate to pursue. 
Mr and Mrs K complained about the outcome of the claim. But Amtrust stood by its decision 
to decline the claim. Our investigator was also satisfied Amtrust had declined the claim fairly, 
having taken the legal opinion into account. 
Mr and Mrs K have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. They don't feel the 
legal expenses cover has been worthwhile. They say the incident caused a lot of upheaval 
for their family and it's hard to provide physical evidence for the uninsured losses they 
are claiming for. They remain of the view the insurance should cover their uninsured losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have clearly been through a very traumatic experience. I don't doubt this has 
caused a significant amount of disruption to them and their family. I can understand why they 
feel so strongly about being able to pursue their uninsured losses. But I can only ask for a 
claim to be covered, or reconsidered, if I find it has been declined incorrectly (i.e. not in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions) or if the terms and conditions have been 
applied unfairly and/or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the contract Mr and Mrs K have with Amtrust - the policy document 
and schedule. These set out the level of cover provided and under what circumstances a 
claim can be made, including any exclusions which may be applicable. 
Under 'Conditions' the policy document says:
2. Prospects of SuccessYou only have cover under this policy where there is more than 50% chance of 
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome.
At any time we may, but only when supported by independent legal advice, form the 
view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving 
a positive outcome, If so, we may decline support or any further support. Examples of 
a positive outcome are:
a) Being able to recover the amount of money at stake;
b) Being able to enforce a judgment;
c) Being able to achieve an outcome which best serves your interests.
Under Sections of Cover, the policy covers:
3. Property
What is insured:
Cost to pursue legal action:
a) For damages against a person or organisation that causes physical damage to your 
main home or your personal effects.
And under the General exclusions, the policy excludes:
1. There is no cover where:
c) An estimate of advisers' costs of acting for you is more than the amount in dispute. 
Although Amtrust provides the legal expenses cover, assessments of whether cover is 
provided, and any subsequent legal claim, is handled by solicitors. So my consideration here 
is whether Amtrust was entitled to fairly rely on the information it was given by the solicitors 
about prospects of success and costs. We wouldn't usually find it unfair for an insurer to rely 
on legal advice unless we thought it was obviously wrong or based on factual errors, such 
that a prudent legal expenses insurer ought reasonably to have realised this. 
Mr and Mrs K were notified their claim had been past to a firm of solicitors. I note their claim 
was handled by a senior solicitor who specialises in property litigation; a suitably-qualified 
professional. It was their legal opinion that there was insufficient information to find the claim 
enjoyed reasonable prospects of success; the solicitor needed more information about the 
position of the third party or the third party insurers, and they needed the losses to be 
quantified. 
I understand Mr and Mrs K have found it difficult to quantify their losses. But this is a 
typical requirement when pursuing a legal claim for losses.  I understand the matter can be 
reviewed if Mr and Mrs K are able to obtain the information sought. I find this to be fair. 
The solicitor also set out the cost of pursuing the legal action could run into the many 
thousands. As the solicitor lacked information about quantifiable losses, they weren't in a 
position to find the claim was proportionate to pursue; moreover, they were of the opinion the 
legal costs would outweigh the costs sought by Mr and Mrs K. They were also of the opinion 
that many of the losses would not be recoverable as they were too remote. It's unfortunate that prospects were considered low and the costs not proportionate. But I am 
satisfied that Amtrust was fairly entitled to rely on the independent advice given by the 
solicitors. After all, they should have the expertise and knowledge to know how a court would 
likely view such matters. I'm not persuaded the advice was obviously wrong, or based on 
factual errors (aside from the excess amount which makes no material difference), and I 
haven't seen a contrary legal opinion to suggest Mr and Mrs K did in fact enjoy more than 
50% prospect of success in pursuing their claim. I'm not persuaded Amtrust has unfairly 
declined this claim, or that the terms and conditions have been applied unfairly or 
unreasonably. Indeed, I doubt a prudent uninsured person would have risked their own 
funds trying to pursue a defendant in such circumstances, where the available evidence 
indicates there's seemingly little chance of actually recovering losses (even presuming a 
favourable judgment, which isn't a given). 
Mr and Mrs K say the length of time this has taken is very poor. But having considered 
Amtrust's actions I haven't seen any avoidable delays. And once the claim was passed to 
solicitors it was out of Amtrust's hands. If Mr and Mrs K believe the solicitors delayed matters 
then they need to take that up with them, it isn't something I can consider against Amtrust. 
I understand Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed with this outcome. But having considered the 
matter carefully, I'm not persuaded Amtrust has done anything wrong in declining the claim 
when it has low prospects of success, or the cost of pursing the claim isn't proportionate to 
the amount sought. It follows that I won't be asking it to meet the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman