DRN-4284009
The complaint
Miss L complains about Uinsure Limited (UL) and the service she received after she took 
the decision to cancel her direct debit.
What happened
In early September 2021, Miss L purchased a home insurance policy through UL, who were 
acting as the policy intermediary and administrator. Miss L made a single premium payment 
of £232.11, which was taken via direct debit.
A few weeks later, Miss L cancelled the direct debit with her bank directly. And UL received 
a notification making them aware of this. So, on 28 September, UL wrote to Miss L 
explaining her policy had been put on hold because of this and requested that she contact 
them if she wished for this to be reinstated.
But on the same day, UL internally reviewed the cancellation. And, as Miss L had already 
paid the entire premium amount, they reinstated the policy and set up a new DD for £0, as a 
live DD was required for their internal systems as the policy Miss L held was set for 
automatic renewal. They sent another letter to Miss L on 28 September confirming the 
reinstatement of the policy and a further letter on 29 September, confirming the new direct 
debit.
But Miss L says she only received the letter stating her policy was put on hold. And crucially, 
she didnt receive the letter explaining it had been reinstated. So, Miss L felt she was forced 
into contacting UL to query this, due to the threatening nature of the letter. And Miss L was 
unhappy with the service she received from UL when attempting to discuss this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Miss L didnt think UL were fair to place her policy on hold and send a letter threatening 
cancellation of the policy when shed already paid the entire premium. She thought she was 
within her rights to cancel the direct debit to ensure the policy wasnt automatically renewed 
the following year and she didnt think ULs process of needing a live direct debit was 
reasonable. So, she wanted UL to compensate her for the time and effort she spent 
speaking to UL to understand the situation, and the anxiety it caused. And she wanted UL to 
agree their process was unfair to customers in her situation, who had paid the entire 
premium is one direct debit payment.
UL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They understood Miss Ls frustrations, 
but they explained they require a live direct debit to be in place to help minimise the chance 
of a customers policy not renewing and so, being left uninsured. And they thought theyd 
fairly attempted to prevent any distress caused to Miss L by send a letter confirming the 
policy had been reinstated the same day theyd sent an automatic letter saying it had been 
put on hold. Because of this, they didnt think Miss L had been detrimentally impacted in a 
way that required compensation and so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Miss L remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained any issues 
surrounding ULs complaint process fell outside of our services jurisdiction. And they 
explained they were unable to hold UL responsible for any issues caused by the postal 
service. So, as they were satisfied UL had sent a letter to Miss L confirming the policy had 
been reinstated on the same day they had sent a letter stating it had been placed on hold, 
they thought UL had acted fairly in an attempt to minimise any confusion and detrimental 
impact. So, they didnt think UL needed to do anything more.
Miss L didnt agree, and she raised several comments and questions detailing why. These 
included, and are not limited to, Miss Ls continued belief that ULs process of requiring a live 
direct debit was unfair for customers who had paid for the premium in one payment. Miss L 
expressed her belief that, if this process wasnt in place, she wouldnt have experienced 
stress and anxiety she did. So, she maintained her view that UL should compensate her for 
this. As Miss L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss L. I understand Miss L 
feels strongly about her right to cancel a direct debit should she see fit. And I appreciate 
Miss L feels ULs internal processes should cater for this right accordingly. So, when Miss L 
did cancel her direct debit and she received a letter saying her policy had been placed on 
hold, when it had almost a year to run, I can understand the confusion and frustration this 
wouldve caused. And I can also appreciate why Miss L would want UL to compensate her 
for this.
But for me to say UL should do something more, such as pay Miss L a compensatory 
amount, I need to be satisfied they made an error when sending Miss L this letter. Or, if I 
dont think they did, Id need to be satisfied that they acted unfairly in some other way that 
impacted Miss L in such a way that it should be recognised financially. In this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
clearly what Ive been able to consider, and how. 
I recognise Miss L is unhappy with the service she received, and in particularly the way UL 
communicated with her, after she raised her concerns about the letter she received. But as 
this service was provided as part of ULs complaint process, this isnt something Im able to 
consider as complaints handling isnt a regulated activity. So, I wont be commenting on this 
in any further detail within my decision.
I also recognise Miss L feels ULs internal process of requiring a live direct debit is an unfair 
one. And, that its unreasonable for them to have automated letters sent, when a live direct 
debit is cancelled. But this internal process put in place by UL forms part of their commercial 
decision making, and this isnt something our service has the powers to comment on, or 
change. This would fall under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So, I wont be discussing, or commenting on, the fairness of ULs decision to 
require payment by direct debit, and a live direct debit to be in place for the duration of the 
policy.Instead, Ive focused solely on the service UL provided to Miss L, after she took the decision 
to cancel her direct debit, to decide whether I think they acted fairly and reasonably.
I want to make it clear I dont dispute it is Miss Ls right to cancel a direct debit with her bank. 
And I also recognise why Miss L would feel this was a reasonable decision for her to make, 
to ensure the policy she took out didnt automatically renew. But crucially, I dont think this 
right means UL acted unfairly, or unreasonably.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Miss L held, as well as the policy schedule. 
And I think these documents make it reasonably clear that the policy was due to 
automatically renew. But I think they also make it clear that Miss L would be made aware of 
the renewal in advance of the due date, in case she didnt wish to take out the policy for a 
further year. And, if Miss L didnt want an automatic renewal, that she could arrange this by 
contacting UL directly. 
But I cant see Miss L did this and instead, she took the decision to cancel the direct debit. 
As there was a live direct debit with UL, Miss Ls bank wouldve been obligated to notify UL 
about this. And UL have confirmed where a notification of a direct debit cancellation is 
received, an automatic letter is generated explaining the policy is on hold so they can review 
the policy itself to understand a way forward. I dont think its unreasonable for UL to want to 
review a cancellation, as a direct debit cancellation may impact their ability to receive 
payment of premiums.
But I do recognise where a customer such as Miss L has paid the premium in full, this 
wouldnt be the case. So, Id expect UL to review any cancellation in a timely manner. In this 
situation, I think UL did so, sending a letter to Miss L on the same day explaining the policy 
had been reinstated. While Miss L says she didnt receive this letter, Im satisfied from the 
evidence Ive seen that it was sent, and that it was sent to Miss Ls correct address. And this 
is all I think UL could control. If there was an issue with the postal service and the delivery of 
this letter, this isnt something I can reasonably hold UL accountable for. 
I also note UL then sent a letter to Miss L the following day, confirming the direct debit had 
been reinstated at a cost of £0, with no further payments due to be taken. As Ive already 
mentioned above, UL have an internal policy that any live policy must have a live direct 
debit. So, I think they acted in line with their policy when reinstating a new direct debit and I 
dont think Miss L was negatively impacted by this, as no payment was due to be taken 
before the renewal.
I also dont think it was unfair for UL to set up this new direct debit as, at this time, Miss L 
hadnt contacted them to make them aware she didnt wish for the automatic renewal to take 
place in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, I think they were acting in Miss Ls best 
interests to ensure they had a valid payment method available to them for the renewal to 
minimise the chance of Miss L being without insurance, should she have assumed an 
automatic renewal would take place.
So, while I do think there was confusion generated by the letter UL sent stating the policy 
had been placed on hold, I dont think Miss L was impacted by this in a way that means UL 
should compensate her. I think they acted swiftly to review the cancellation, and they sent a 
letter the same day confirming Miss Ls policy was still in place. And these are the actions Id 
expect UL to take in this situation. 
And as Ive already explained, it is not my role, nor the role of our service, to comment upon 
the fairness of ULs internal processes. Nor are we able to direct UL to change these. So, 
because of all of the above, I dont think UL need to do anything more on this occasion.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint about Uinsure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman