DRN-2369943
The complaint
Mr K complains about the information Telefonica UK Ltd has reported on his credit file.
What happened
Mr K was declared bankrupt in 2017 and was discharged from bankruptcy in September 
2018. He complained that information relating to this on his credit file wasnt correct. He said 
hed had several conversations with Telefonica and was assured his file had been updated 
accurately, but when he checked his credit report it continued to show incorrect information.
He complained to Telefonica and then to this service, saying he wanted his credit file 
amended so that it showed his accounts as satisfied with a zero balance from the date he 
was discharged from bankruptcy.
Telefonica said there had been some problems with the information it had provided, but 
these issues had been resolved.
When our investigator considered the complaint, he said Telefonica had amended the 
balance on Mr Ks accounts to zero and the settlement date to when his bankruptcy was 
discharged. Taking into account the circumstances, this is what he would expect it to do. But 
he said the most recent credit report still had varying balances reported each month and 
communication showed there was confusion about what needed to be amended, and Mr K 
had had to make a lot of unnecessary phone calls and send letters to resolve things, which 
had been distressing for him. He said Telefonica should have made the correct amendments 
when this was first raised.
The investigator asked Telefonica to amend Mr Ks credit file so that any month following his 
bankruptcy discharge showed a zero balance, and said it should reflect this accurately in 
future. He didnt recommend any further compensation for the inconvenience caused to 
Mr K. Taking into account the time involved and the distress caused, he thought the payment 
Telefonica had already offered of £150 was fair.
Telefonica didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had provided updates to the 
credit reference agency, which had updated the credit report three times but then changed it 
again, and it wasnt responsible for the fact the agency had changed the records back.
Mr K also disagreed with the investigator. He said the problems were still ongoing and hed 
had to raise it with Telefonica again. He said in view of the ongoing issues, the 
compensation wasnt enough and should be increased.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold the complaint, for the following 
reasons:
It's important that a credit file is an accurate record of that person's financial history, since it 
may affect decisions that lenders make about providing credit. So if Telefonica provides 
information to a credit reference agency, that information should be correct and if it isnt, Id 
expect Telefonica to take steps to correct it.
In this case, Telefonica accepted there were some errors when reporting to Mr Ks credit file. 
It contacted the credit reference agency to amend the information provided, so I think it did 
take action to put things right  and Mr K confirmed that he received a credit report that 
showed everything correctly. Telefonica also offered compensation to Mr K for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
It seems there were further issues after that point; Mr K advised our investigator he received 
another report in November 2019 which was again incorrect. I initially considered whether a 
further compensation payment should be made to Mr K. However, he raised a further 
complaint about the ongoing problems. Telefonica issued a final response to that in March 
2020 and it has been considered by this service separately.
So this complaint is limited to looking at the initial problems which Telefonica addressed in 
2019. On that basis, I think Telefonica had taken action to put things right, and I agree the 
compensation of £150 is a fair reflection of the distress caused to Mr K and the trouble he 
was put to in chasing it to sort things out. So in my judgment no further action is needed.
Replies to the provisional decision 
Telefonica had no further comments to add but Mr K has made a number of comments. In 
particular, he says Telefonica offered the compensation in July 2019 but he continued to 
suffer distress up to September. He made another complaint regarding the ongoing issues 
but he would like the compensation increased to reflect the further distress he suffered in the 
meantime.
Mr K also says the provisional decision confuses the dates and doesnt take into account the 
long period when he continued to have problems, or the particular effect it had on his health, 
which was more severe due to his personal circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has explained why he thinks my provisional decision doesnt reflect the full extent of the 
problems he faced and how long those problems continued. He points out that the 
compensation was offered in July 2019 and although Telefonica provided a further response 
in September, the compensation wasnt increased. I have considered all of his comments 
carefully and I appreciate that the problems continued for some time. I dont doubt this 
caused him distress. However, in this complaint I can only consider the issues raised in his 
first complaint. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I did initially consider whether further 
compensation should be paid. But he raised a further complaint and I cant consider the 
ongoing problems here. With regard to this complaint, I think Telefonica did take steps to try 
and resolve things. And it contacted Mr K in August 2019 to explain it had been in contact 
with the credit reference agency and sent him emails about this. Looking at the period I can 
consider, its still my view that the payment of £150 was a fair reflection of the distress 
caused to Mr K in that period. So, while I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr K, I 
dont think any further payment is appropriate. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman