DRN-3772500
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Limiteds cancellation of their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R had a home insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Limited 
(RSA), which covered their buildings and contents, amongst other things. They first bought 
the policy in 2003.
After they made a claim for damage to a carpet in April 2021, the intermediary who sold 
them the policy told them that RSA would be cancelling it  and not considering the claim.
This was on the basis that Mrs R and Mr R had failed at renewal to correct information which 
suggested their home was made predominantly of brick. In fact, a large part of it is made of 
wood.
Mrs R and Mr R werent happy with this and made a complaint. They said theyd been told 
back in 2003 that their house could be covered by the policy and theyd been entirely open 
at the time about its construction. They said that since the policy had never been suitable, 
they wanted their premiums refunded back to inception in 2003.
The intermediary  who RSA have confirmed is authorised to deal with this matter on RSAs 
behalf  admitted that a mistake had been made. They said the policy shouldnt have been 
cancelled at all, because their underwriters were able to provide cover, albeit this would 
usually be on different terms due to the non-standard construction of the house.
They said system limitations meant they couldnt change the policy terms at that time. So, 
they offered to reinstate the policy  under the same terms for the time being. And they said 
theyd pay any premiums Mrs R and Mr R had paid to other insurers after the erroneous 
cancellation. 
Mrs R and Mr R werent happy with RSAs response and brought their complaint to us. They 
said they wanted all of their premiums refunded, back to 2003, with interest. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 
However, he didnt think the premiums should be refunded because RSA would in fact have 
considered claims throughout the period in question and would have paid out if theyd 
accepted those claims. 
In other words, Mrs R and Mr R had in fact been provided with the cover theyd paid for. The 
cancellation of the policy had been an error, which RSAs agents had identified and then 
tried to put right.
Our investigator thought the offer to reinstate the policy on the same terms  and pay for any 
alternative cover Mrs R and Mr R had bought in the meantime - was fair. But he thought 
RSA should also pay Mrs R and Mr R £100 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
The complaint has been referred to me for a final decision because RSA didnt respond to 
our investigators view on the case. Theyve since said theyre happy for the matter to be 
handled by the intermediary on their behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that this case has been referred to me for a final decision not because 
any of the parties necessarily disagree with our investigators view, but because RSA 
havent expressed an opinion on that but instead asked us to deal with it through the 
intermediary.
Weve been clear throughout that RSA are the appropriate and correct respondent to the 
complaint. Decisions about whether to continue with or cancel cover are for the underwriter 
not the intermediary or broker. Of course, RSA are entitled to ask someone else to deal with 
the matter on their behalf  as they have done here  but RSA will be responsible for 
ensuring that any actions to put things right for Mrs R and Mr R are taken in a timely manner.
To be clear, according to the evidence weve been given, this policy was cancelled after the 
underwriter said cover couldnt be provided. It wasnt cancelled due to a simple 
administrative error on the part of the intermediary for which RSA couldnt be expected to 
accept responsibility.
Im happy then that the respondent in this case has been given a preliminary view of the 
proposed outcome of our considerations (our investigators view). This final decision will 
resolve the case beyond any doubt in an acceptable time frame for Mrs R and Mr R.
There is no dispute about the facts of this case. RSA  through the intermediary  admit that 
the made an error in cancelling the policy.
Putting things right
Turning to the substance of the case, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to 
ask RSA to refund all of Mrs R and Mr Rs premiums back to the policys inception in 2003. 
As he said, Mrs R and Mr R have been on cover in that time, notwithstanding the error made 
by RSA in April 2021.
If I start from that point, Im satisfied that RSAs offer  through the intermediary  to put 
things right is entirely fair and reasonable. Reinstating the policy on the same terms, and 
recompensing Mrs R and Mr R for the cost of any policies theyve bought since the 
cancellation, puts Mrs R and Mr R back in the position they would and should have been in 
had the error not been made in the first place. 
I should say that RSA will be entitled to apply their policy terms for non-standard 
construction as and when their administrative systems allow it. And to vary the terms if there 
is any material change to the cover provided by the policy.
To be clear, Id expect RSA to pay for the premiums Mrs R and Mr R paid for alterative cover 
plus any cancellation or other administrative fees. If Mrs R and Mr R choose not to accept 
that offer, I can only assume thats because they consider themselves now to be in a better 
position than they were before the error was made and their policy cancelled.If the policy is reinstated, RSA can then consider the claim relating to the carpet which Mrs R 
and Mr R made just before the policy was erroneously cancelled.
I agree with our investigator that the error made by RSA in cancelling the policy will have 
caused Mrs R and Mr R a degree of inconvenience  they will have had to seek cover 
elsewhere. And it will have caused them some stress and worry, particularly around what 
their future premiums would likely cost.
Im satisfied that £100 is sufficient compensation for Mrs R and Mr Rs trouble and upset. I 
bear in mind that whilst this whole incident will have caused them stress and concern, RSA  
through the intermediary  offered to put things right within a relatively short space of time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs R and Mr R s complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must: 
if Mrs R and Mr R wish, reinstate the policy - initially at least, on the same terms;
pay for any alternative cover Mrs R and Mr R have purchased since the cancellation 
(including cancellation or administrative fees), on receipt of appropriate proof of 
payment from Mrs R and Mr R;
pay Mrs R and Mr R £100 in compensation for their trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman