DRN-3092017
The complaint
Mr N complains that Experian Limited has recorded someone elses County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) on his credit file. 
What happened
Last year Mr N complained to Experian after he found a CCJ on his credit file. The address 
and date of birth matched Mr Ns details. And Mr Ns first name matched one of the names 
on the CCJ. But the surname was spelt slightly differently to the spelling of Mr Ns name in 
his passport. 
Mr N also contacted the County Court Business Centre (CCBC) about the issue and it sent 
him an email saying he is not the party listed on the claim. Mr N sent the email to Experian in 
support of his case. 
Experian didnt agree to amend Mr Ns credit file and said the email from CCBC was 
insufficient to show the CCJ wasnt his. Experian accepted that the format of the surname 
used was different to Mr Ns passport and voters roll information. But Experian said the 
name used on the CCJ was a variation on Mr Ns name. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Experian had dealt with Mr Ns complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr N 
asked to appeal and reiterated that the CCJ was in a different name and CCBC had 
confirmed it wasnt his. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The name on the CCJ is very similar to Mr Ns surname. Mr N has told us he thinks the 
name beginning with an N was used as the first name on the CCJ. But the CCJ information 
Ive seen shows the name beginning with N was used as the surname, not the first name. 
And the first name used on the CCJ matches Mr Ns middle name on his passport. I can see 
that the format used for the name does change depending on the system thats being used 
to view it. But Im satisfied the name beginning with N was used as the surname. 
I think its also reasonable to note that the CCJ recorded other information about the 
recipient. In this case, the CCJ confirms Mr Ns address (in line with the information he gave 
us on the complaint form) and date of birth (as shown in his passport). And, as Ive said 
above, the name listed as Mr Ns middle name in his passport is noted as the first name on 
the CCJ entry. So whilst there is a difference in spelling for the surname used, Im satisfied 
all the other data is in line with Mr Ns details. 
Ive looked at the email Mr N received from CCBC. It says You are not listed as a party on 
the claim so if this judgement has been added to your credit report incorrectly then you will 
need to contact the credit reference agency to ask them to disassociate you from it. Experian 
has reviewed this email but says it was insufficient to show the CCJ wasnt his. I understand 
Mr N has already asked CCBC for confirmation, but I can see within the email trail the full 
version of his name wasnt provided. In addition, Mr N didnt give details of his address or 
date of birth when asking CCBC to investigate. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but I dont agree Experian has acted unfairly by declining his 
request to remove the CCJ. Given Mr Ns middle name, date of birth and address are all in 
line with the CCJ entry and the surname used is a misspelled version of his surname, I think 
Experians decision is reasonable. 
Mr N has the option of asking the courts to investigate this matter further or he can contact 
the claimant directly to raise his concerns. But based on the information Ive seen I dont 
agree that Experians decision not to amend his credit file is unfair. As Im satisfied Experian 
has dealt with Mr Ns complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman