DRN-2716200
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds handling of a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has been helped by his mum. But for ease of reading I will 
refer to her comments as being Mr S.
Mr S policy is administered by a separate company - operating under a different name  to 
Watford. But the administrators handled the claim on Watfords behalf, so I will refer to the 
administrators actions and comments as being Watford's. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S was in an accident when another driver (the third party) crashed into 
the back of his car. His car was damaged and later deemed to be a total loss. He raised a 
claim and was forwarded to a credit hire company, which is a separate business to Watford 
and which Ill refer to as A, to pursue his claim outside of the terms of his Watford policy. A 
provided Mr S with a hire car while the claim was ongoing. Mr S also initially instructed 
solicitors in order to make a personal injury claim but, after his injuries resolved, he withdrew 
from that process. 
The third party blamed Mr S for the accident. She implied that Mr S had caused the accident 
deliberately. She had an independent witness statement that supported her version of 
events. In February 2020 the third partys insurer, which I'll refer to as D, notified A and 
Watford that it was refusing to pay Mr S claim and said it may share Mr S details with fraud 
prevention agencies. A passed Ds letter to Mr S for his comments. He replied to A that day. 
Mr S later contacted Watford again, as A wasn't making progress in having D settle the claim 
for the damage to his car. He asked Watford to cover his claim for the loss of his car under 
the terms of his motor policy. Watford did so and paid Mr S for the total loss of his car. It later 
confirmed that it would seek to recover its outlay (what it had paid out to settle the claim) 
from D.
In the meantime, another insurer, who Mr S had taken out a new policy with after his Watford 
policy expired, told him it was cancelling his policy. Mr S later learned D had added his 
details to an insurance fraud register (the register), which caused his new insurer to cancel 
his policy. And his inclusion on the register caused him significant problems with finding 
affordable alternative insurance. Mr S complained about that both to D and the organisation 
administering the register. D said it would temporarily remove Mr S details from the 
register, pending the outcome of the claim. 
Watford told Mr S there was little it could do about Ds decision to add Mr S to the register 
but it was pursuing his claim against the third party. A issued court proceedings against D on 
Mr S behalf, in order to recover its hire car costs. Watford eventually joined those 
proceedings in order to recover its outlay. Although it left A, and the solicitors A had 
appointed, to take the lead on progressing the court action.
Mr S was unhappy with Watfords service. In particular he felt, amongst other things, that: it 
hadn't offered him enough support; hadn't challenged D about putting him on the register; 
had been negligent; and had given him conflicting information.
Watford upheld Mr S complaint. It acknowledged that there were times it could have done 
things differently. It paid Mr S £200 compensation to reflect that.
Mr S didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigator's looked into it. He agreed that not all of Watfords service was as good as it 
should have been. But he felt that Watfords response to the complaint had been 
reasonable. So he didn't think Watford needed to do any more to put things right.
Mr S remained unhappy. His complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to 
address each and every point raised but will instead focus on what I see as being the key 
issues at the heart of the complaint.
Its clear that Mr S is unhappy with the manner in which Watford has processed his claim 
generally, which I will deal with in more detail below. But at the heart of his complaint is his 
sense of injustice and unfairness that D added his details to the register and the impact of 
that. Whilst I can look at Watfords role in that, weve previously explained to Mr S that we 
can't look into the complaint he made against D as its outside of our jurisdiction.
I don't think Watford was in any way responsible for D adding Mr S details to the register. 
Mr S wasn't initially claiming through his Watford policy. Instead he was pursuing his claims 
through A, and also through solicitors instructed to make a personal injury claim (which he 
later withdrew). At that time Watford wasn't involved in that process at all. It didn't have a 
claim from Mr S and, at that time, the third party hadn't made a claim against his motor 
policy. 
In February 2020 D told A and Watford it was refusing Mr S claim. It also said that it may 
share Mr S details with fraud prevention agencies. At that time Mr S still hadn't made a 
claim with Watford. So it wasn't engaged in progressing the claim at all at that point. And 
I note D didn't say that it was passing Mr S details on to fraud prevention agencies, only that 
it might. And it didn't say which agencies those may be. So I don't think, at that time, Watford 
was under any obligation to take the matter up on Mr S behalf. 
I've noted that in its complaints response Watford said that it should have passed Ds letter 
of February 2020 on to Mr S. And, while I agree that would have been good practice, I've 
noted that Mr S had already received a copy of the letter from A. In fact he gave his 
comments on the letter to A the same day he received it, which he copied to us when 
referring his complaint to this service. So it's clear he had actually seen the letter. So I don't 
think Mr S was left in a worse position because Watford didn't pass it on. 
Ds decision to add Mr S details to the register was entirely its own and isn't something it 
needed permission to do, from Watford or anyone else. It did so at a time when Watford 
wasn't actively engaged in the claim process. So I don't think there was anything Watford could have done to prevent D adding Mr S details to the register. It follows that I don't think 
Watford is in any way to blame for the impact that had on Mr S.
Mr S doesn't think Watford did enough to tell him about D including him on the register or did 
enough to challenge it. But there's no evidence that Watford was aware that D had actually 
added Mr S to the register until he told it about that. So I don't think Watford could have 
informed Mr S of that earlier. And, while Watford could have told D why it didn't agree with its 
decision to add Mr S to the register, this was a decision D came to independently and 
Watford had no authority to insist it reverse its decision. Further, I note D temporarily 
removed Mr S details from the register, around a month after Mr S complained to D about 
it. And I don't think there was a great deal more that Watford could have done to help him in 
the meantime. 
That said, Watford has acknowledged that there were a number of other areas where it 
could have provided a better service. Amongst other things its acknowledge that it could 
have: provided clearer and more detailed information earlier on; given information in writing; 
directed Mr S to the registers website; done more to challenge D at the point that it decided 
to pursue Mr S claim; done more to chase D for its evidence; and provided clearer advice 
about the actions it was and wasnt taking. It paid Mr S £200 compensation for the impact of 
its errors.
Mr S said that dealing with the aftermath of the accident and the claim has caused him 
significant distress and inconvenience. He doesn't believe the £200 compensation Watford 
paid him comes close to addressing that. Its plain from Watfords response to his complaints 
that there were many things it could have done better. But, I don't think Watford is the main 
cause of the distress and inconvenience Mr S has suffered. 
It was over three months after the accident before Mr S actually claimed on his Watford 
policy. I've noted Watfords acknowledged it could have given him more information at the 
outset about who was doing what. But Ive also seen that Mr S said he only claimed from his 
Watford policy reluctantly. So I think Mr S was always likely to have used As services to 
progress his claim, rather than claiming from Watford. And, at the outset, I don't think either 
he or Watford could have foreseen that D would respond to the claim in the manner it did.
As I've indicated above the early actions to progress Mr S claim were all taken by A. 
Watford isn't responsible for As actions so isn't responsible for any concerns Mr S might 
have about those. And, as I've already said, by the time Mr S claimed from his Watford 
policy D had already added his details to the register. So I don't think Watford is responsible 
for the impact of that, including the significant distress and inconvenience it caused.
Further, Watford accepted it could have given Mr S more details about the register, for 
example by directing him to its website. But by that time D had already added Mr S to the 
register. And Mr S was clearly capable of finding out details of, and complaining to, the 
register himself without Watfords direction, as he did so without Watfords help. So I don't 
think Watford's failure to direct him to the registers website had a significant impact on Mr S.
Watford said it could have done more to challenge Ds position. I agree thats the case but 
I don't think that likely to have changed the outcome for Mr S. It seems early on in its 
involvement at least, Watford wasn't keen to pursue the matter in court. And it certainly could 
have joined in As court action, which it had already started, sooner. But, while that might 
have prevented some of the confusion that arose later, which Ive referred to below. I don't 
think it would have changed Ds position on the case nor particularly speeded up the 
process.D had clearly decided it was going to defend its position against any claim brought on Mr S 
behalf. That process was begun by A. And A didnt require Watfords assistance or 
agreement to do that. Further, after Watford did join A in the court action, I've seen no 
evidence that this persuaded D to change its stance nor that it speeded matters up. After 
joining the action Watford essentially took a back seat and allowed A, and its solicitors, to 
drive the matter forward. And, as I understand it the court process still hasn't been 
concluded. So while I can see why Watfords reflected on the things it could have done 
better, I don't think its mistakes are the reason matters have dragged on so long or are the 
reason that D has adopted the position it has.
Further, Watfords acknowledged that some of its communication has been confusing. And 
I've seen evidence of Watford giving conflicting advice to Mr S, A, and its solicitor, 
particularly in terms of whether Watford was joining the court action process or not. Thats 
because it appears that, initially Watford didn't intend to join the action, it then changed its 
position on that but didn't clearly communicate this to the others concerned. And it appears 
As solicitors believed Watford had said it wasn't going to join the action at all, but Watford 
had already told A that it would. It seems some of that conflicting information given has 
arisen because, at least once, A didn't pass on Watfords instruction to its solicitors, which 
added to the confusion. However, while I can understand that Mr S would have found this 
conflicting information frustrating, the position was rectified many months ago. And I think 
Watford has recognised the part it caused in that frustration when it paid Mr S compensation. 
It follows that, while its possible Watford could have done many things better, I think its 
acknowledged its mistakes and paid Mr S £200 compensation to reflect the impact of those 
failures. Mr S doesn't think that goes far enough. But Watford certainly hasn't been the most 
significant player in this claim. And I think that many of the issues Mr S has suffered were 
caused when D added him  unfairly in his view  to the register. And, as I've said above, 
that wasn't because of anything Watford did or didn't do. So I think the £200 compensation 
its paid is enough in the circumstances. It follows that Im not going to instruct it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman