DRN-3691453
The complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr B acquired used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr B was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £215. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £12,665.
Mr B says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit check, verifying Mr Bs 
income through his payslips and using statistical data to assess his expenses.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and provided further details of his expenses from the time which he said 
hadnt been included in the assessment. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, Moneybarn completed a credit check and verified Mr Bs income 
with a credit reference agency. It also used statistical data to estimate Mr Bs non-
discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax, utilities and vehicle costs). 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed although it has noted that 
Mr B didnt have any county court judgements or insolvencies recorded and his most recent 
default was 47 months prior to the application. As I havent seen the credit report received by 
Moneybarn Ive relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr B. Ive considered the 
information reported by the credit agency Moneybarn used and I think this gives a good 
indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. 
At the time of the application Mr Bs credit report shows no county court judgement or 
insolvency information. It shows he had current accounts which were being managed well 
and two credit card accounts. While there is information that Mr B had other credit 
commitments these werent reported to the credit reference agency Moneybarn used and so 
I cannot say it would have been reasonably aware of these. Mr B was generally managing 
his credit card accounts well but he did miss a payment on both cards six months prior to his 
application to Moneybarn. While this alone doesnt necessarily raise serious concerns, given 
the size and duration of the agreement I think it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn 
to have a carried out further checks to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Bs 
financial circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn verified Mr Bs income with a credit reference agency. This recorded a monthly 
income of £1,642. Mr B says that his income from the time was around £1,500 including 
overtime but without overtime it was around £1,300. While I note Mr Bs comments, I find the 
check carried out by Moneybarn on his income was reasonable and I do not find the amount 
recorded would have raised concerns that meant further checks were required. That said, 
had further information been provided this would have shown Mr B received £1,681 in 
September 2018 which supports the number used, although I note his average income for 
the three months leading up the agreement was slightly lower at around £1,580.
Mr B initially said his expenses were around £1,300 a month but later said they were around 
£1,495. Moneybarn relied on statistical data to assess Mr Bs non-discretionary expenditure 
but in this case given the size and duration of the agreement I think it would have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have asked Mr B about his regular expenditure. I dont think 
Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive 
placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Bs statements as an indication 
of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. I have also 
considered the information that Mr B provided in response to our adjudicators view and 
have checked that the amounts have been included. Taking the information provided into 
account shows that Mr Bs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around 
£1,100. In calculating this figure, Ive included payments towards rent/board, utilities, payday 
loans, car tax, car insurance, mobile phone, other credit commitments, food and fuel. Taking 
these figures into consideration, even if Moneybarn had completed further checks, it would 
still have likely concluded the agreement was affordable to Mr B. For this reason, I dont 
think Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman