DRN-4120405
The complaint
Mrs R complains that a car she acquired with credit from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services
UK Limited (MBFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs R entered into a credit agreement with MBFS on 27 May 2021 to acquire a new car. The
credit to buy the car was granted by MBFS under a personal contract agreement. This
meant MBFS was the owner of the car and Mrs R was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
As owner, MBFS was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £29,148. Mrs R paid a deposit of £2,832 and the total payable
under the agreement was £31,433. This was to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £323
with an optional final purchase price of £13,075 (all figures rounded).
Mrs R told MBFS in August 2022 that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and she wanted to
return it. She explained that the car had an intermittent fault where the display screen goes
blank without warning and she cant see the information she needs to drive safely, including
the fuel sign. Mrs R said that the car had been in for repairs but the fault remained. She told
MBFS that she didnt want the car anymore because she didnt want to pay for a car that
wasnt safe to drive.
MBFS said that Mrs R had been to the selling dealership twice for warranty repairs  the
instrument cluster display was repaired in February 2022 and the total failure of the
multimedia display in August 2022. Both visits involved software updates  the first to the
instrument cluster, the second to the control unit. MBFS said that it didnt consider the
software updates as repairs but as speculative measures undertaken in the first instance. It
didnt support Mrs Rs rejection of the car because of the timing of the incidents. They had
occurred after Mrs R had the car for six months and so MBFS said it fell to her to prove the
car was faulty when the agreement began in order for it to take responsibility. MBFS offered
Mrs R £250 compensation as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience the matter had
caused her. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with this response and referred her complaint to us. She said that the 
fault had manifested within six months of driving the car. She also said that the fault was 
intermittent but ongoing despite the attempted repairs. Mrs R said the fault impaired her use 
of the car as shes concerned about what would happen should the display screen fail 
without warning.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They
found that it was more likely than not that the intermittent fault Mrs R was experiencing was
there from the onset and wasnt something a reasonable person would expect in a new car.
They proposed that the agreement is ended with nothing further for Mrs R to pay and the car
is collected at no cost to her. They also proposed that Mrs Rs deposit plus interest is
returned to her along with an award for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs R accepted this recommendation. MBFS didnt comment on our investigators view and
asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on 17 April 2023 explaining why I planned to uphold Mrs Rs complaint 
and proposing how to resolve things for her. I thought Mrs R should either be allowed to 
return the car or be offered a price reduction. MBFS acknowledged my provisional decision 
but didnt comment on it or provide any further information. Mrs R accepted it and confirmed 
she now wished to return the car to resolve her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further comment or new information for me to review 
following my provisional decision. Having reconsidered the matter again I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional conclusions and I am upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill set out 
again my reasons for doing so in this final decision.
As before, Ive borne in mind the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 when considering this 
complaint. This implies a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means what a reasonable person would expect, taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price and any other relevant circumstances. The 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability. The relevant circumstances in this complaint would include, for example, the 
nature of the fault and the age and mileage of the car.
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods. They can
reject the goods if the fault happens within 30 days, or have the goods repaired or replaced.
Outside of this period the supplier has the chance to repair the goods before anything else
happens. If this doesnt solve the problem and its found that the fault was there or
developing when the goods were supplied, then a consumer might be entitled to other
solutions such as a price reduction or a final right to reject the goods.
In this case a fault manifested with Mrs Rs car more than 30 days after it was supplied. My
first consideration is whether the fault was there or developing from the start or whether it
arose later, for example through wear and tear caused by normal usage. If I find that the
fault was present from the outset, does this mean that the car didnt conform to the contract
at the time or, in other words, was of unsatisfactory quality? If so, what should happen now?
Ill begin by sharing what Mrs R told us. She said that the fault happened a couple of months
after the agreement started. Shed mentioned it when visiting a Mercedes garage and then
had the fault looked at when she visited another Mercedes garage a number of times. Shed
been told the fault had been repaired but it kept happening.
The fault involves the display going blank and usually happens on start-up. Mrs R said that it
happens intermittently and without any discernible pattern. She told us that this has caused
her such inconvenience and ongoing concern that she doesnt want to keep the car. In one
example Mrs R explained that she was attended by a breakdown service who wouldnt take
the car to a garage as it was actually working, although she had experienced the issue again
and couldnt drive it. In another example Mrs R was to attend a social engagement with
family and couldnt drive to the venue, which was 50 miles away, as planned because the 
fault had occurred again. Mrs R told us that its curtailed her use of the car because shes
concerned if she travels far from home that she would be stuck if the display failed again.
She said she uses the car for local journeys but even at that is worried about what could
happen.MBFS shared their complaint investigation notes with us which makes reference to Mrs Rs
account records. An incident involving a flat tyre was noted in January 2022, followed with
an engine management light issue in March. In July a recurring intermittent fault was noted
and, in August, an issue with the cars instrument cluster. The notes refer to the two garages
Mrs R visited and state that both garages carried out diagnostic checks on the car. The
notes include a record from one of the garages  the one Mrs R visited a number of times.
The first entry is from January 2022 which mentions a breakdown and a flat tyre; the next
mentions an issue with the instrument cluster in February; a breakdown, dashboard blank
and recurring intermittent issues in July; and total failure of the display in August.
The notes conclude that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld as there is a fault with the car
but that she has no grounds to reject it. In its final response to her complaint, MBFS said that
Mrs R had been to a Mercedes garage for two warranty repairs, first on 4 February 2022 and
second on the 30 August. It said that the first incident was 9 months after the start of the
agreement, and the second was 15 months afterwards. MBFS said that the timing of these
events meant the fault was outside of its responsibility as a finance provider, and so it didnt
support Mrs Rs rejection of the car. It also said that it didnt consider software updates as
attempts to repair as they were speculative measures undertaken in the first instance.
It doesnt seem to me that there is any dispute about there being a fault with the car. MBFS
said in its final response to Mrs R about her complaint that it was aware she had attempted
to have it repaired on numerous occasions but unfortunately the fault still remained. Mrs R
told us as recently as March 2023 that the fault was still occurring more or less on a monthly
basis. Ive accepted that this is indeed the case and considered when the fault most likely
began or was developing.
Mrs R has been consistent in what shes told us about when the fault first happened and its
continued occurrences. MBFSs complaint notes dont say when Mrs R first mentioned the
fault either to it directly or during her visit to the first Mercedes garage. I think its more likely
than not that Mrs R experienced the fault before 2022 but I cant be sure when. The nature
of the fault is that it is intermittent, so theres an inherent uncertainty about when exactly it
developed. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that the problem
Mrs R is continuing to experience with the display was there or developing from the onset of
the agreement.
Given that Mrs R acquired a brand new car, it seems to me that it ought to be problem-free
for a reasonable period of time. The nature of the fault isnt one which was likely to have
occurred due to wear and tear or any misuse on Mrs Rs part. Ive concluded that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Mrs R has given MBFS the opportunity to 
repair the fault but this hasnt happened and, as far as Im aware, MBFS havent offered 
Mrs R a replacement car. Because of this I think it is fair that Mrs R is allowed to exercise 
her rights under the CRA, including the right to reject the car. As mentioned, Mrs R wishes to 
return it.
I dont have a current mileage figure but Mrs R told us in December 2022 that the car had 
travelled 14,618 miles. I can accept that Mrs Rs use of the car was curtailed by the fault 
however it seems she was managing to drive it almost up to the annual mileage of 10,000 
permitted under the agreement and Ive assumed shes continued to do so. Considering this 
and the agreement terms, I think its fair that MBFS retains Mrs Rs monthly repayments as 
payment for the use of the car but her deposit should be returned to her. 
Ive also concluded that some compensation is appropriate in this case to reflect the impact 
that this experience has had on Mrs R. Shes explained that she experienced distress and 
inconvenience because she was provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of errors. We 
have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when making this 
decision. Our investigator recommended an amount of £250 which seems to me to be a fair 
and reasonable amount in the context of this case and Mrs R accepted this. I dont intend to 
suggest a different amount now.
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs R, MBFS now needs to:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs R to pay and collect the car at no 
further cost to her; and
Refund Mrs Rs deposit contribution of £2,832 plus 8% simple interest per annum* 
from the time of payment until the time of reimbursement; and
Pay Mrs R an amount of £250 (less any amount that has been already paid in this 
regard) to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused; and
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Rs credit file in relation to the agreement.
* If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax
from the interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mrs Rs complaint about Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited and it now needs to take the above steps to put things 
right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman