DRN-3767175
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a vehicle he financed with Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr C entered a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a van that 
was almost seven years old and had travelled 115,478 miles. The cash price was £9,259 
and the loan was repayable over 60 months. 
Mr C says that when he took delivery of the van on 8 January 2022, he noticed the following 
issues;
engine leaking
damage to back bumper
issue when reversing 
back door doesnt open from the outside
drivers door window doesnt work properly
engine noise
issue with ignition barrel
Mr C says he was unable to report the issues when he first took delivery of the van because 
he underwent a major operation a on 19 January 2022. When he was feeling better, he got 
in touch with Moneybarn on 21 March 2022 to report the problems.
Moneybarn arranged for the van to be inspected in September 2022, at the time the mileage 
was recorded as 117,539 miles. The engineer confirmed many of the issues Mr D raised 
(with exception to the window issue and reversing problem). The engineer was unable to test 
drive the van due to a power steering fault, but in the engineers opinion only the ignition 
barrel fault would have been present or developing at the point of supply. Because of this 
Moneybarn didnt allow Mr C to reject the van and said it was fair for the dealership to repair 
the ignition barrel fault.
Moneybarn arranged for the van to be returned to the dealership and collected, due to the 
distance from Mr Cs address. The dealership repaired the ignition barrel on 21 September 
2022, Mr C says the outstanding faults shows that the van was not of satisfactory quality 
when he got it, he wants to be able to reject it.
Mr C complained to Moneybarn, there was a delay in it responding to his complaint so it 
apologised and paid Mr C £75 compensation to reflect this. It didnt think it was responsible 
for any of the outstanding faults. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr C brought his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was fair that the 
dealership had repaired the ignition barrel fault but didnt think Moneybarn were responsible 
for repairing the outstanding issues. The investigator thought the outstanding faults were 
likely to be due to wear and tear, given the age and mileage of the van. 
Mr C disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered the 
whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr C acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the van shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn is responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability.
 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, its 
assumed that the goods didnt conform to the contract when supplied unless the business 
does something to prove any problems are likely due to a reason other than the goods not 
conforming to the contract when supplied - such as usually expected wear and tear or 
accidental damage/lack of maintenance. So, if I thought the van was faulty when Mr C took 
possession of it, and this made it not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to 
ask Moneybarn to put this right.
 
Mr C says he experienced issues with the van shortly after delivery. The first evidence we 
have of Mr C reporting the problems with the van was three months after it was supplied. 
And whilst I accept that Mr C underwent surgery and was focusing on his recovery, I have to 
take into account that the van managed to travel around 2,000 miles before it was inspected, 
so I dont think it is clear here, that the faults were present at the point of supply.
Vehicles are complicated machines and there are lots of things that can cause one to go 
wrong within three months of supply. When Mr C took possession of the van, it was more 
than six years old and had over 115,000 miles on the clock, and the price he paid reflected 
this. Id expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and high mileage. And I think 
any reasonable person would expect components to need replacing or repair much sooner 
than with a younger, lower mileage vehicle. So just because a fault occurs shortly after 
supply doesnt mean I can assume it was present at the point of supply. Also, its not enough 
simply for a fault to be present. The vehicle would need to be of unsatisfactory quality 
because of the fault too. 
As the faults were reported within six months, it is assumed the van wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied, unless Moneybarn proves otherwise. And I think it has done 
this; The engineer confirmed most of the faults reported by Mr C (except for the window and 
reverse issues) and found an additional problem with the power steering but concluded that 
with exception to ignition barrel fault, none of the other issues would have been present or 
developing at the point of supply. The engineer is the expert and independent of both Moneybarn and Mr C. And Im satisfied 
thats its reasonable to rely on the engineers conclusions  that the outstanding faults were 
not present at the point of sale or due to wear and tear.
 
The ignition barrel was repaired on 21 September 2022, and I havent seen anything to show 
that this repair failed or wasnt satisfactory. Mr C hasnt provided anything, such as a report 
from a garage, to say that the outstanding faults were present when the van was supplied. 
And in the absence of anything to the contrary, I think its more likely than not that those 
outstanding faults are expected wear and tear, given the age and high mileage of the van. 
In the circumstances I dont think the outstanding faults mean the van was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C. And whilst I sympathise with Mr Cs situation, I dont 
have any grounds to direct Moneybarn to cover the cost of repairing the outstanding issues 
or to ask it to allow him to reject the van. Moneybarn agreed to pay Mr C £75 compensation 
for the delay in responding to his complaint, in the circumstances I think this is fair and I 
dont require Moneybarn to take any further action, with respect this complaint.
This decision is the final stage of our process, so we wont be able to comment further, and if 
Mr C doesnt accept my decision, he is free to pursue this matter through the courts, if he 
wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman