DRN-2577067
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund all of the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
On 7 November 2019, Mr G received an unexpected phone call whilst he was driving to
work. Mr G works in a highly specialised field. He told me that hes lived abroad in the past
and that English isnt his native language. Mr G remembers the call began with an official
sounding automated message about a problem with his tax and options to select from to
immediately speak to an advisor. He suggests the message said a warrant for his arrest
would be granted if he did not connect to an advisor. Mr G says he panicked. Mr G has
explained it would be a problem in his line of work if adverse information such as owing a
debt or being in trouble with the Police was recorded about him on official records. He
thought he was speaking to HMRC, but it was really scammers impersonating the tax,
payments and customs authority.
Mr G says the scammers knew enough information about him to take him through security
questions, but he cant remember exactly what he was asked or what the scammers knew
about him. Mr G recalls clearly that the scammers knew he had a six-month payment
arrangement set up to pay his tax and that he paid it monthly. Mr G says he was convinced
he was talking to a genuine HMRC employee because it sounded so real and because they
knew about his tax repayment arrangements. Mr G explained that the payment plan had only
been set up around two months before, so he thought it was possible that his accountant
could have made a mistake which resulted in him owing HMRC more money. He recalls the
number on his phone looked like a genuine HMRC phone number that hed called when
setting up the payment plan and that the call sounded like it was coming from a call centre.
The scammers told Mr G there had been an error in his last four annual tax payments and
that he needed to bring things up to date immediately because he was responsible for
repaying the outstanding amounts due. The scammers told Mr G the matter could progress 
to a court hearing and possible custodial sentence if he did not comply. Mr G explains that
he was never late with payments to HMRC and always paid his tax liabilities before taking
any money for himself. Mr G says the scammers told him that this was the last opportunity to
make the payments without consequences and that HMRC had sent him warnings that hed
not replied to. Mr G says he agreed to make the payments without checking with his
accountant because he was concerned that his job would be in jeopardy if he did not pay
immediately.
The scammers told him he was being connected to another department. Mr G says the
scammers told him he needed to make four separate payments, one for each of the incorrect
years. He says he wanted to pay using his business debit card, but the scammers told him
they could only accept immediate payment by bank transfer.
Mr G made four faster payments of just under £500 each using his mobile banking app. 
All the payments were sent to the same account. Mr G adds that he didnt see any warnings
about scams from the bank and didnt need to enter any security codes as he made the
payments.
The scammers told Mr G they would close the outstanding balance immediately if he sent
screenshots of his online banking confirming the payments had been made. The scammers
sent Mr G a message on an internet messaging app for him to send the screenshots to. 
Mr G says the message came through with HMRC at the top. He no longer has the message
but Mr G recalls that hed received a message on the same app with HMRC at the top
around ten days before the scam happened, but hed deleted it because it wasnt relevant to
him. He explains that he had the impression that HMRC could contact people in this way
because his work has a messaging system that uses the same platform, so it seemed
natural to him that other organisations would use it in a similar way.
Shortly after the call ended, Mr G arrived at work and told his colleagues what had
happened. They told him it sounded like a scam. He contacted HSBC around an hour after
the first transfer had been made but it was ultimately unable to recover any funds from the
bank the money was sent to.
HSBC considered whether it ought to reimburse Mr G for his loss. HSBC is a signatory to the
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code) and so considered its
obligations under it.
On 19 November 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr G. It said it should have done more to protect and
advise him before he made the payments. But it felt Mr G could have taken more
responsibility and made checks before making the payments too. So it thought they should
share the responsibility and offered to reimburse half of the money Mr G had lost. It refunded
£995.40 into Mr Gs account.
Mr G complained. He thought HSBC should have refunded all of the money hed lost. HSBC
disagreed and issued its final response on 15 January 2020. It said it had made the
payments in line with Mr Gs instructions and had been unable to recover the funds sent. It
accepted partial responsibility under the guidelines set out in the Code but felt Mr G should
have done more to check it was a genuine HMRC call. It suggested he should have called
HMRC on the number displayed on its website or on a letter received from them, or asked to
pay by card, which would have provided him with additional protection.
Mr G was unhappy with HSBCs response and asked us to review the banks position. Our
investigator upheld the complaint. She thought HSBC should have fully reimbursed Mr G.
She noted that HSBC had refunded Mr G with 50% of the funds lost because it hadnt
provided any warnings before he made the payments. She felt he had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was following legitimate instructions when making the payments. She didnt
think hed been grossly negligent.
She thought the scammer had given Mr G explanations for why he needed to make the
payments that sounded legitimate. She noted that Mr G recalled the call sounding like it was
coming from a call centre and pointed out the scammers knew personal details about him
that were correct, which further made it seem to him that he really was speaking with HMRC.
She was mindful of the pressure this type of call can put a person under. She didnt think it
was unreasonable for Mr G to not have taken any further steps to validate who the caller
was before making the payments.
HSBC disagreed. It said there were a number of highly concerning factors which should
have alerted Mr G to the fact that this was a scam.
It pointed out Mr G received a cold call and basic due diligence and internet research by 
Mr G would have uncovered this. It felt this type of tax scam is extremely well known, which is why Mr Gs work colleagues immediately knew hed fallen victim to a scam. It said the 
arrest warrant was an unrealistic threat. It thought it was inconceivable that a professional
person such as Mr G could miss red flags and pointed out Mr G told the bank that the
scammer had said not to contact his accountant. It thought the requirement to pay by bank
transfer was highly suspicious. It thought the information the scammer said it knew about
Mr G, such as the fact he had a payment plan and paid monthly instalments was generic
information and not actually specific to him. It thought the explanation the scammer gave 
Mr G about why he needed to make four separate payments was absurd.
It didnt think it was reasonable for Mr G to believe he was really speaking to HMRC. It
described Mr G as a sophisticated, professional individual. It said Mr G had not met the
requisite level of care under the Code, so he should bear some responsibility for his loss. It
also suggested that the facts might separately justify a finding of gross negligence. It
considered its offer to reimburse half of the payments complied with the Code and was fair
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, it wanted it to be noted that:
This was a basic scam and it wasnt reasonable for Mr G to believe it was genuine.
He failed to carry out even rudimentary checks which he should have done, even
though in this case it felt there were obvious signs this was a scam
The investigator did not take account of Mr Gs characteristics when assessing
whether it was reasonable for him to believe the scam
The circumstances described had all the hallmarks of a scam, such as the cold call,
its intimidatory nature and the unrealistic threat. Grouped together, it is difficult to
accept that Mr G was not grossly negligent
Mr G has not explained why he believed the phone number to look like HMRCs
number
Mr G has not specifically confirmed what the automated message said, what options
he was given or what option he chose
It is unclear what the extent of the security questions the scammer asked Mr G were
There is a general lack of background information regarding the arrangements Mr G
genuinely had with HMRC
Mr G is a sophisticated, intelligent individual involved in business. He would have
known that a request from HMRC in respect of tax liabilities would be made in writing
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
4 November 2020. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
Of particular relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code),
which HSBC has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr G. The circumstances where a firm may choose not
to reimburse are limited and it is for them to establish that a customer failed to meet their
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. It says:
A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if it can establish any of the
following matters in (a) to (e). The assessment of whether these matters can be
established should involve consideration of whether they would have had a material
effect on preventing the APP scam that took place.
(a) The Customer ignored Effective Warnings, given by a Firm in compliance with
SF1(2), by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an Effective Warning
given in any of the following:
(i) when setting up a new payee;
(ii) when amending an existing payee, and/ or
(iii) immediately before making the payment
(c) In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics
of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
(e) The Customer has been grossly negligent. For the avoidance of doubt the
provisions of R2(1)(a)-(d) should not be taken to define gross negligence in this
context
Subsections (b) and (d) have not been included as they are not relevant to this
complaint.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether
they would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam. The Code itself doesnt 
set out specific examples of a customer failing to meet their requisite level of care. Its for 
businesses to consider each case on its own facts.I have thought about how the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payments
Mr G made and, in particular, whether HSBC ought to reimburse him under the
provisions of the Code.
HSBC has already accepted that it did not provide Mr G with an effective warning before
he made each payment. As such, I do not need to consider this point any further in this
case.
So Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC has been able to establish that it may
choose not to reimburse Mr G for any other reasons given in the Code. Although Ive
considered HSBCs comments carefully, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Did Mr G make the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was
the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or service,
and/or the business with who they were transacting with was legitimate?
I have outlined HSBCs representations around this point in length earlier in this
provisional decision. It doesnt consider Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing he
was genuinely speaking to HMRC. It points out that what happened to Mr G had all the
hallmarks of a well-known scam that he could have thwarted with due diligence and
internet research. But I think this is too high of an expectation in the circumstances of
this complaint.
Importantly, Mr G has told us that it didnt even occur to him that this might be a scam.
He has explained why he thought the phone number the scammers contacted him from
felt familiar to him and I consider what hes said about the number appearing familiar to
be a plausible explanation for why he wasnt concerned. The phone number appearing
in the format Mr G describes gives credence to the situation he found himself in. When
the scammers knew information about Mr Gs tax arrangements, he says he was 100%
sure after they told me they knew about my monthly payments that they are real.
HSBC has pointed out that Mr G is a professional person and that his actions are
inconceivable for a professional person acting reasonably. The Code says that HSBC
should think about the all of the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular
the characteristics of the customer and the complexity and sophistication of the scam.
I accept the banks point that Mr G is a professionally qualified person. But from what I know 
of Mr Gs work, its clear that his expertise is not in relation to taxation matters.
Hes explained that his accountant took the lead with his tax affairs and I dont consider
that to be an unusual arrangement. Mr G has told me that he is the director of his own
limited company, but he has an accountant who keeps his books, calculates his tax and
submits his self-assessment forms on his behalf. He's also explained he was concerned
that not paying would have a detrimental impact on his employment. The scammers told
Mr G that he needed to make four separate payments, one for each tax year. The bank
has suggested the need to make separate payments to HMRC was absurd. But Mr G
isnt an expert in the UK tax system and Im mindful that English is not Mr Gs native
language either. The reasoning the scammer gave for the need to make four separate
payments made sense in the context of the dialogue as it unfolded.
I have thought carefully about what Mr G recalled about interacting with the scammers
on an internet messaging app and whether that should have indicated that he wasnt
really dealing with the genuine HMRC. But the explanation Mr G gave to explain why this 
didnt raise a red flag at the time is plausible. More and more organisations are interacting 
digitally and as its something that hes familiar with from his own line of work, I can see why 
hed assume that other companies would communicate in the same way.HSBC is concerned that Mr G cant remember specifically what the automated message
said, what he pressed, or what the scammers asked him as security questions. But a
sense of urgency, panic and the need to act quickly was created by the scammers,
making Mr G more vulnerable to the scam as it unfolded. Against this backdrop, its not
surprising that Mr G cant recall the precise details of what was asked. This is a scam
that hooks its victims in the moment. It creates a short-term time pressure and a fear,
exploiting the trust that customers feel in the legitimate organisation and its authority.
Although HSBC considers that Mr G didnt make sufficient checks before making the
payments, I think there is a balance to be struck. The Code requires HSBC to think
about all the circumstances at the time of the payments, including the characteristics of
the customer along with the sophistication and complexity of the scam. In doing so, 
I consider HSBC should bear in mind the nature and scale of the scam, as well as its
customers capability to weigh up the situation they are in at that time and make an
informed decision about whether to proceed with making payments.
From Mr Gs recollections, the scammers were professional and had replicated a call
centre environment. What Mr G has recalled the scammers as saying felt particularly
applicable to him in the moment. Looking at everything in the round, the scammers
entire operation convinced Mr G he was speaking with the genuine organisation and
that he really did owe this liability. There is enough evidence to persuade me Mr G had
a reasonable basis for believing he was genuinely speaking to HMRC. He was
convinced that not complying with the scammers requests could have adverse
consequences for his employment. Mr G expressed disbelief when he discovered it had
been a scam. He says the truth is that they sounded so real and genuine that I made
the payments and send them screenshots of the payment pages of my phone. I was not
only convinced but also in a panic to make the payment so I dont get into trouble with
HMRC. So I became the victim.
HSBC needs to be realistic in its expectations of what constitutes reasonable when
understanding the level of checks, diligence and any element of social engineering
which has occurred given the circumstances of the scam and the customer. I am
currently minded to think HSBCs expectations of Mr G are too high in the
circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr G grossly negligent?
HSBC says that gross negligence would be a very significant degree of carelessness. It
feels that this is an objective consideration, but goes on to say that the fact Mr G is a
sophisticated, professional individual cannot be ignored. It suggests that individuals acting
reasonably would have terminated the phone call, or made separate enquiries to check it
was legitimate before making the payments. It considers that Mr G has clearly behaved in
a grossly negligent manner by not doing so and suggest the facts in this case might
separately justify a finding of gross negligence. But I am not persuaded that Mr Gs actions
in this particular case meets that very high bar.
I dont think Mr Gs actions show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a
reasonable person would have done in the same situation. HSBC has suggested Mr G
ought to have terminated the phone call or made further enquiries to ensure the
payments were legitimate. But for the reasons Ive already explained earlier in this 
provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr G genuinely believed he was talking to HMRC and Im 
not persuaded that the actions he didnt take would amount to gross negligence.I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Mr G should be held to a higher
standard than that envisaged by the Code by virtue of the fact that he holds professional
qualifications entirely unrelated to the nature of the scam.
Overall
Overall Im currently persuaded that Mr G did meet his requisite level of care and I dont
believe HSBC has established it was able to choose not to refund him under the Code. In
the circumstances I think HSBC ought to have fully refunded Mr G at the time he reported
the loss and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of that loss now.
So subject to any further representations from Mr G or HSBC, I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr G accepted my provisional decision. HSBC disagreed. It still felt Mr G should bear at 
least some of the responsibility for the loss he has suffered. 
It said the facts to support a finding that Mr G did not have a reasonable basis for 
belief or that hed acted with gross negligence would be the same, so it would focus 
on the reasonable basis for belief as it is a lower threshold to meet. 
It said there was no specific information about Mr Gs genuine tax arrangements or 
why the telephone number felt familiar to him.
It said it was unclear what the telephone number looking like a genuine HMRC phone 
number that Mr G had called in the past meant. It did not think Mr G could have taken 
any comfort from the format of the numbers. The bank suggested Id placed undue 
weight on this whilst ignoring and not engaging with red flags, such as the scammers 
telling Mr G he could not discuss his tax liability with his accountant. 
It didnt think Mr G could have held a reasonable belief that it was a genuine phone 
call. It said hed accepted everything he was told by the scammers at face value, 
despite being certain that hed never been late with his payments and always paid his 
tax liabilities. 
It said the provisional decision cited vague recollections and referred expressly to the 
mention of an internet messaging app. It suggested this had not previously featured 
in Mr Gs account of events. It felt I had uncritically accepted Mr Gs version of events 
and was struggling significantly to agree that Mr Gs belief that communications he 
received though the app were genuinely from HMRC was reasonable. 
The bank asked me to clarify the relevance of English not being Mr Gs first language 
to this case. It said there was no suggestion that he did not understand what was 
said to him during the scam call.
It did not think a person would need expertise in relation to taxation matters to 
identify that the scam call was suspect. It suggested that someone in Mr Gs position 
who was acting reasonably would have taken steps to verify the legitimacy of the call. 
In my provisional decision, I pointed out Mr G had told us that it didnt even occur to 
him that this might be a scam. I also said that I was satisfied Mr G genuinely believed 
he was talking to HMRC. HSBC suggested this demonstrated I had not properly 
defined the reasonable standard for customer conduct and the approach I had taken 
was incorrect. It said that if a genuine belief is all that is required, a customer would 
never bear any liability under the CRM Code in circumstances where there has not been an effective warning as any customer that falls victim to a scam will have done 
so genuinely believing it was legitimate. 
It acknowledged what I had said about the pressure of the situation but did not think it 
was reasonable for Mr G, who knew he was up to date with his tax affairs, to believe 
that a public organisation such as HMRC would make such threatening calls and 
request payment in such an unconventional manner. 
It suggested a reasonable person, particularly a reasonable professional person, 
when receiving unsolicited and unexpected telephone calls demanding money, 
should be generally circumspect about the possibilities of scams. It said customers 
should question information given to them which simply does not add up. It said even 
though Mr G may have had a genuine belief he was paying HMRC, there were clear 
red flags and he did not have a reasonable basis for that belief in all the 
circumstances. 
It listed the red flags it felt should have been picked up on at the time. It said it was 
not reasonable for Mr G to think issues dating back over four years could have been 
the result of a mistake in a payment plan set up just two months earlier. It said it was 
concerning that he was told matters could not be discussed with his accountant. It 
pointed out the scammers told Mr G hed ignored warning letters but he hadnt 
received any. It suggested a refusal to accept payment by any other method other 
than bank transfer should have stood out, along with sending proof of the payments 
made as screenshots on an internet messaging app. 
It thought the application of interest at 8% was unfair given the current Bank of 
England base rate and suggested any interest awarded should be no greater than 
the underlying accounts rate of interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to reach a different outcome to my provisional decision. 
I have carefully considered all of HSBCs representations about whether Mr G had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments he made were genuine. But they do not 
persuade me that he failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose 
not to fully reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code. 
HSBC has suggested that I have taken an incorrect approach in my provisional decision and 
based my consideration on whether Mr G genuinely believed he was talking to HMRC, 
overlooking whether it was reasonable in all of the circumstances for him to think that he 
was. 
As Ive previously outlined, the starting proposition under the CRM Code is that a customer 
will be reimbursed if they are the victim of an APP scam unless HSBC can establish that a 
customer made payment without a reasonable basis for belief. Victims of APP scams who 
have met their requisite level of care should be reimbursed.
I agree with HSBC that the question to answer here is whether Mr G had a reasonable basis 
for belief. In my provisional decision, I was setting out the reasons why I consider Mr G had 
met his requisite level of care and it is that which HSBC and I disagree on. What HSBC has said and provided indicates it considers it should have been obvious to 
Mr G this was a scam. It has outlined a number of red flags that it suggests should have 
given him cause for concern. It has suggested additional checks that it believes he could 
have done and further actions he should have taken at the time the payments were made. 
Essentially, it finds it difficult to believe that a reasonable person would not have taken those 
steps and actions when placed in that situation.
But the fact that these things did not happen is not sufficient to meet the reasonable basis for 
belief exception of the CRM Code in all the circumstances of Mr Gs case. 
HSBC has suggested Mr G could not take any comfort from the way the format of the 
numbers from the scam call appeared on his phone. But what Mr G has described, to both 
us and the bank, explains that the appearance of the phone number was much more 
powerful than this. In the notes the bank took at the time Mr G initially reported the fraud, it 
details that Mr G was called from an 0300 number. The phone number is given in full in the 
banks records and is very similar to phone numbers that are cited on the genuine HMRC 
website. HSBC is aware that scammers are able to pose as trusted organisations by 
spoofing the genuine organisations telephone number. This is a very sophisticated 
technique and means that the average customer wouldnt be able to appreciate the risk that 
they might not be talking to the genuine organisation. The callers number looking as if it 
belongs to that genuine organisation is very powerful. Ive not seen anything that makes me 
think Mr G ought to have been aware that a fraudster could mimic a genuine organisations 
telephone number in this way. 
HSBC broadly accepts that Mr G has legitimate dealings with HMRC. But it does not think 
what the scammers said should have resonated with him. It has expressed concern that 
Mr Gs interactions with the scammer on a messaging app have not been mentioned 
previously. But when Mr G first contacted the bank shortly after the scam happened, he 
explained hed been asked to send screenshots of the payments hed made to the scammer 
using an internet based messaging app. From what Ive seen, Mr Gs recollections of what 
happened have been consistent, both when he first reported it to the bank and when he has 
discussed the matter with this service. 
Mr G has said his accountants advice has always been to speak with HMRC directly to 
agree specific terms to repay which suit him. Mr Gs recollections of what happened during 
the call suggest the scammer gave plausible and compelling explanations. Mr G suggested 
that the scammer at the time said to me that because of a technical problem they had with 
the system they could not accept the money by debit card. To me this was nothing to raise 
any suspicion, nothing unusual. This was because often this happens with HMRC. 
Mr G has told us that English is not his first language. There is no suggestion that he did not 
understand what was being said in the scam call. In fact, hes described being convinced by 
the content of the call that he was going to be in trouble with official organisations if he did 
not follow the requested steps. But in my view, this demonstrates just how persuasive and 
powerful the social engineering techniques used by fraudsters can be. Im also mindful that 
an appreciation of those social engineering techniques can be more difficult to spot when 
you are not a native speaker of a language. 
This type of fraud was designed to impact Mr Gs thoughts and actions in the moment. It can 
be difficult for consumers to think clearly, and take steps they might otherwise take, under 
the kind of worry and emotional pressure Mr G found himself under at the hands of a 
fraudster. Thats not unreasonable and the CRM Code takes into account the sophistication 
of the scam and the characteristics of the consumer in its design. Mr G was convinced he 
would be arrested if he did not comply and has explained he was frightened about the 
implications for his employment. Mr G recalled his experience and said its about the anxiety and the panic in the moment 
and yes as a doctor I know that anxiety and panic makes people not able to register 
information whilst under psychological pressure but that knowledge unfortunately did not 
protect me as I am also a human being.
Even after considering HSBCs further points, I still think the banks expectations of what 
constitutes reasonable when understanding the level of checks and diligence to expect are 
too high, especially when considering the degree of trust and belief that social engineering 
creates. As such, Im still not satisfied HSBC has established Mr G made these payments 
without a reasonable basis for belief that he was paying HMRC. I remain persuaded that 
Mr G met his requisite level of care.   
I think HSBC should now fairly and reasonably compensate Mr G by refunding him the 
remaining money he lost as a result of the scam. 
HSBC has suggested awarding interest on this amount at the rate of 8% simple would be 
unfair given the current Bank of England base rate. It suggests interest at the underlying 
account rate would be more appropriate. But I think in this case a rate of 8% simple is 
appropriate to fairly reflect the cost of Mr G being deprived the use of that money. Mr G was 
overdrawn at the time he made the payments and current interest rates charged on 
overdrafts are unlikely to have reduced in line with the base rate. Mr G moved money from 
one of his other accounts to clear the overdrawn balance, but its unclear what the 
opportunity cost of that choice to him really was. We dont know what Mr G would have 
otherwise used the funds for if the scam had not happened. Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think he was saving this money- it was from his overdraft on an account he uses 
for his day to day bills and living costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided that Mr G ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded. I therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him:
The remaining 50% of the money he lost  £995.40;
Interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date it should have accepted Mr Gs claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman