DRN-3612223
The complaint
Mr H complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com irresponsibly lent to 
him.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company. For ease of reference Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by him.
What happened
Everyday Lending approved Mr H for a guarantor loan in January 2020. The loan was for 
£6,000 with a 60 month term, and repayments of around £240 per month. 
Mr H complained to Everyday Lending that it lent irresponsibly to him. Everyday Lending 
agreed with his complaint. In its response to Mr Hs complaint Everyday Lending set out the 
redress it was proposing. It highlighted that the guarantor to Mr Hs loan had paid a 
substantial amount of the loan; and as such Everyday Lending was going to refund these 
repayments to the guarantor. Everyday Lending explained that due to this refund Mr H had 
an outstanding balance of approximately £2,500.
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to our service. Our service 
asked for further information about the status of the loan. Everyday Lending confirmed that 
the guarantor had settled the loan with a single payment of around £7,000. It confirmed Mr H 
had paid less than the amount he had borrowed (approximately £3,500). 
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not currently minded making a finding on the relative merits of 
this case; as doing so will not materially alter the outcome of this complaint. That is to 
say all parties agree the loan should not have been approved to Mr H. Everyday 
Lending has made an offer to settle this complaint in response to our services 
involvement.
The remaining point in dispute here is the redress which has arisen as a result of this 
dispute. Everyday Lending says it should be able to pursue Mr H for the amount 
which it believes is outstanding. Mr H is unhappy with this redress, and believes they 
are due some compensation.
Ill start by considering the amount which Mr H has paid. Our services standard 
approach to redress is to put consumers back in the position they wouldve have 
been had any potential error from a business not occurred. That is not possible in 
cases where capital has been advanced to consumer. So, in those instances our 
stance is that the consumer should only pay back the amount of credit theyve 
borrowed. That is because the consumer (unless proven otherwise) has had the 
benefit of the capital advanced.
In this instance Mr H has not repaid the amount he has borrowed. From the 
information which Ive seen so far it appears as if Mr H has borrowed £6,000 and had 
repaid around £3,500 before the loan was settled.  
In order for Mr H to be due redress Id need to be satisfied that he has paid over the 
amount of capital he has borrowed. Everyday Lending says this is not the case. And 
based on Mr Hs own information that doesnt appear to be the case either.  
So in the absence of more persuasive information from Mr H; Im not satisfied he has 
suffered a financial loss in this instance. That is to say; Im not persuaded based on 
the information Ive been provided that Mr H has paid more in repayments than he 
was lent. So Im satisfied there is no loss and it follows there would be no redress 
due either.
Everyday Lending says it is going to pursue Mr H for the amount he has under paid. 
I have considered Everyday Lendings argument here but Im not persuaded that it 
can reasonably do so. From my understanding; and based on the information which 
has been provided to date; this loan has already been settled. That means there is 
no longer an agreement in place; and this has been discharged by all relevant 
parties.
As no agreement is in place; I dont understand how Everyday Lending believes it 
can pursue Mr H for a debt that is by all accounts settled. As I have explained above 
based on what Ive seen so far; the loan was settled early by a third party. So there 
doesnt appear to be an active agreement in place and I dont see how Everyday 
Lending even has a mechanism for collecting payments for under an agreement that 
was extinguished some time ago. 
If this is incorrect and Everyday Lending can demonstrate the account is still open; I 
will consider its arguments further. But in the absence of an open account Im 
satisfied that Mr Hs responsibilities under the relevant agreement have already been 
discharged. 
So based on what Ive seen so far; Im currently minded to say that Mr H is due no 
redress as he hasnt suffered a financial loss. And Im not persuaded Everyday 
Lending can continue to pursue Mr H for a debt that is settled.  
I would ask both parties to provide further information which demonstrates either they 
suffered a financial loss; or that there is a loan balance still outstanding. Pending this 
information, and subject to any further submissions which may be made; my final 
decision is likely to be along the same lines.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comment they wished to 
provide. Neither party responded within the relevant time frame offering new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information; Im satisfied the findings set out in my provisional decision should remain. That is to say, whilst Everyday Lending accepts it should 
not have provided the loan, it does not need to do anything further in terms of putting things 
right. This is because Mr H has not demonstrated that he suffered a financial loss in this 
instance. 
Im also satisfied that as the loan has been settled, that Everyday Lending does not have a 
mechanism in which to pursue Mr H for any further payments. 
Putting things right
Although Everyday Lending accepts it should not have provided the loan, it does not need to 
anything further to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. But I do not require Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman