DRN-3119500
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited declined his claim following a blockage in 
the sewage disposal system at his home.  
Mr R has been represented by a third party throughout his complaint. However for ease of 
reading all references to Mr R include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr R had home insurance with Tesco. In September 2020 he noticed that the toilets and 
sinks at the property were draining more slowly. He instructed a local contractor who 
inspected Mr Rs septic tank. A second contractor identified a blockage in the drainage pipe 
that went into an adjoining field. It was discovered that this pipe had been crushed which 
was causing the blockage and not allowing the tank to drain properly. 
In October 2020 he made a claim on his insurance. Tesco sent out a loss adjuster the 
following month. And in January 2021 it wrote to Mr R to say it was declining his claim. It 
said the drainage system from the septic tank wasnt within the boundary of Mr Rs property 
and therefore wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr R made a complaint. He said that the septic tank was within his property boundary and it 
was just the drainage pipe that wasnt. He also pointed to a policy term that said accidental 
damage to underground pipes he was responsible for would be covered. He also said he 
wasnt happy with how long it had taken Tesco to progress his claim.
Tesco didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It maintained its declinature of the claim, saying the 
policy defines buildings as anything that falls within the boundary of the property, including 
septic tanks. So while it now accepted the septic tank was within the boundary, as the 
drainage pipe was outside the boundary of Mr Rs property it was right to decline the claim. It 
also said it didnt agree there had been any unnecessary delays. 
Mr R didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr Rs complaint be upheld. 
She thought that as the septic tank was within the boundary of Mr Rs property, and the 
drainage pipe was an integral part of this system, Tesco hadnt acted fairly by declining the 
claim due to the pipe being outside the boundary. So she recommended Tesco consider 
Mr Rs claim in line with the other policy terms and conditions. She also thought Tesco had 
caused some delays that could have been avoided and recommended it pay Mr R £200 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience these had caused. 
Mr R accepted our investigators opinion. However Tesco didnt agree and asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Tesco hasnt acted fairly by declining 
Mr Rs claim. Ive explained why below.
I can see that the policy defines buildings as follows:
The main building and any other structure within the boundary of your home including the 
following:
Service tanks, drains and septic tanks.
Both sides are now in agreement that Mr Rs septic tank is within the boundary of his 
property. So it follows that damage to the septic tank would be covered under the policy 
based on this definition. 
Tesco has said that because the damage is to the drainage pipe, and this falls outside 
Mr Rs property boundary, this isnt covered. However, I dont think this is a fair application of 
the policy terms. The drainage pipe, and soakaway, are key components of the septic tank 
drainage system. And if this part isnt functioning, this means the septic tank is unable to 
function properly. 
Here, in order to ensure the septic tank does function, a fix is required to the drainage pipe. 
As the septic tank is covered under the policy, I therefore think its reasonable that the 
required repair to the drainage pipe is also covered, as it is required in order for the septic 
tank to work properly. 
For this reason I dont think Tesco has acted fairly by declining Mr Rs claim. And I agree 
with our investigator that it should consider his claim in line with the other policy terms and 
conditions.
Ive also considered how Tesco has handled the claim. Mr R raised the claim in October 
2020 and it was declined in January 2021  three months later. While I understand the need 
for Tesco to validate the claim, Ive not seen a reason why it took Tesco three months to 
confirm the declinature. And this has caused Mr R additional distress and inconvenience, 
above that of making a claim. I therefore agree with our investigators recommendation that 
Tesco should pay Mr R £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to:
Consider Mr Rs claim in line with the other policy terms and conditions. 
Pay Mr R £200 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman