DRN-1967928
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tandem Bank Limited has refused two of his claims brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants the cost of the disputed items to be 
refunded.
What happened
Mr C tells us that he booked a caravan park for a holiday in July 2019 using his Tandem 
Credit card. He said the pitch proved to be unsatisfactory for his caravan, being on a steep 
slope and with smelly drains. He further complains that a hotel he stayed at whilst abroad 
later in 2019, incorrectly charged him £64.46.
Tandem told us it accepted that it shouldve done more to investigate the complaint about 
the caravan park. But that it had initially considered it to be a service quality complaint rather 
than about a breach of contract. It said it had credited Mr Cs account with £186 (50%) of the 
cost). And a £30 gesture of goodwill. In respect of the hotel charge it said that Mr C hadnt 
provided sufficient information to show the charge was incorrect. And that it had been 
authorised by chip and pin.
Our investigator felt Tandem had done enough with its offer of a 50% refund to resolve the 
complaint about the caravan park. The hotel charge was below the lower limit at which 
Section 75 applied. And she said that as there was insufficient information to show what the 
hotel charge was for, she didnt think a chargeback claim wouldve succeeded.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand that Mr C would be disappointed that his full claims werent met.
His complaint consists of two main elements. He says the caravan park didnt match what 
hed agreed to and the pitch was too small. Also that the facilities were of a poor standard. 
He doesnt know what the additional charge the hotel made was for and thinks it may have 
been duplicated.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. Another requirement is that the 
single item price of the goods or services about which complaint is made is more than £100 
and less than £30,000. 
Ill deal with the two main elements of the complaint separately.
In respect of the hotel charge Mr C has not been able to provide sufficient information to 
show that any error was made. The amount is below the level at which Section 75 applies. 
And for a chargeback to be successful there would have to be evidence of some 
discrepancy such as non- supply of goods or services. So I dont find that Tandem acted 
unreasonably in refusing this part of his claim.
In respect of the caravan park booking, again Im unable to say theres sufficient information 
to show there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Other than the fact of the 
complaint itself Im not aware that any supporting information has been supplied by Mr C. 
Nor can I see anything to show that a complaint was made at the time of the stay to the 
caravan park owners. I note that a separate County Court claim, brought by Mr C against the 
owners over an issue of alleged damage, was dismissed.
As Tandem refunded 50 % of the charge, I find that is fair and reasonable. Indeed its more 
than I wouldve awarded if it hadnt already been paid. Mr C had the use of the pitch for the 
duration of his stay so even if it had been below the standard that he expected its 
reasonable he should pay something towards the services he used.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman