DRN-3185891
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Morgans Ltd wrongly advised him to transfer the benefits in his
final salary occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He considers he has lost
out on a significant amount of valuable benefits as a result.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 October 2021. I set out the 
background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally 
minded to uphold it in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it here, and it forms part 
of this final decision.
Mr W met with an adviser from Morgans Ltd in 2011 who advised him to transfer the 
benefits in his final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension 
arrangement.
A Retirement Options Report for Mr W dated 16 June 2011 said that Mr W wanted to review 
his OPS options and start taking his pension benefits. It said he would like the flexibility of 
taking his tax-free cash without a need to take an income. It said he was married, had a low 
attitude to investment risk and the transfer value available was £176,928.
The report explained the different options available and the advantages and disadvantages 
of each. The report said the adviser recommended that Mr W transfer his OPS benefits to 
a drawdown pension plan. This was because he had a requirement for the whole of the 
tax- free lump sum at the start of the contract; annuity rates were historically low; it 
provided greater flexibility and investment freedom; and gave protection for his estate. The 
report said that after taking tax-free cash of £44,232, the remainder of the transfer value 
could alternatively buy an annuity of £6,289.
The benefits in the OPS were split into two sections, and different TVASs were completed 
for each section. One TVAS said that the estimated total pension payable from age 65 on 
one part of the scheme was £13,163, and the annual investment return required on the 
transfer value to match the OPS benefits was 13.2%.
A second TVAS for the other part of the scheme said the estimated total pension payable 
from age 65 was £9,628, and the annual investment return required on the transfer value 
to match the OPS benefits was 12%.
Further TVASs were completed showing the investment returns required to match the OPS 
if benefits were taken at age 55. These said a return of 0% was required on this basis.
Mr W completed an Objectives and Attitude to Risk Questionnaire. This recorded that his 
savings were around one years salary. And in response to a number of statements asking 
about his attitude to risk he indicated:
I prefer little or no risk of loss. My main concern is the safety of my 
initial investment.
When asked how large a drop in the value of a £100,000 portfolio would be 
required before he changed his holding, he indicated less than 5% - the lowest 
option available.
Minimising the risk of a drop-in value of my investment is critical, so I am willing 
to accept the lower long term returns offered by conservative investments.
If his portfolio lost money in a year he would likely sell some of his investments 
and invest proceeds more conservatively.
The OPS Provision report dated 1 June 2011 said that the pension at date of leaving was
£3,988 from one part of the scheme, and £6,454 from the other. It said if the benefits were 
left in the OPS they would increase each year up until retirement date, and the actual 
amount payable would depend on the rate of these increases. Once in payment, one part 
of the pension would increase each year.
It said if Mr W took benefits from one part of the OPS at age 55 he could take tax-free 
cash of £19,834, plus a pension of £2,975, and this would increase in payment. And tax-
free cash of £21,608 plus a pension of £3,537 from the other part, and this wouldnt 
increase in payment.
It said alternatively, if Mr W transferred he could take immediate tax-free cash of £44,232, 
and buy an annuity of £6,553. This was on a level basis, with a 50% spouses pension and 
a 5-year guarantee.
The report went onto say:
In pure  pension  terms  the argument  for transferring  should  be driven  by the 
investment  return  which  is required  in order  that the transferred  benefits  at least  
match  the benefits  under  the ceding  scheme.  If the required  investment  return  is 
too high perhaps  over 10%  per annum  compound  then it would  be usual  to leave  
the benefits  preserved.  If however,  the investment  return  required  is particularly  
small  for example  3% per annum  then it would  be sensible  to transfer  out into to a 
personal  pension  fund.
Current  market  wisdom  says  that a transfer  should  not take place  if the required  
investment  return  is greater  than 7% per annum.  There  is then a neutral  zone  of 6 
- 7% per annum  requirement  whereby  there  is unlikely  to be any significant  
advantage/disadvantage  in transferring  although  at the same  time it would  be 
unlikely  that one's  pension  position  would  be particularly  damaged  if a transfer  
took place.  If the required  investment  return  is less than 5% then the arguments  
do tend to fall strongly  in favour  of a transfer.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When providing regulated financial advice Morgans Ltd was obliged to meet the 
requirements set out by the industry regulator (The Financial Services Authority (FCA) at
the time). This included its Principles for Business (PRIN). And the rules set out in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
PRIN 2.1.1 provided:2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
9  A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgement.
And COBS 19.1.6 provided:
When advising a  retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
In effect, the starting position was that a transfer was unlikely to be suitable for Mr W 
unless, in the particular circumstances, there were good reasons for it being in Mr Ws best 
interests.
Morgans Ltd did think there were good reasons for Mr W to transfer. In particular, a 
transfer enabled Mr W to take tax-free cash from his pensions which it was recorded he 
needed at that time, and without the obligation to take an income. It also gave him more 
flexibility in terms of managing and controlling his pension, and different death benefits.
However whilst I accept that the tax-free cash and flexibility offered by the transfer to a 
personal pension may have appeared attractive compared to set benefits from the OPS, the 
transfer had to be considered in the context of the overall circumstances, and all the 
advantages and disadvantages of it weighed up.
COBS 9.2 required Morgans Ltd to give suitable advice. It was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable for Mr W. In order to meet his 
investment objectives, the firm needed to consider Mr Ws preference for risk and his risk 
profile.
Mr W completed an Objectives and Attitude to Risk Questionnaire to establish his 
preference for risk taking. In my experience these types of questionnaire can often provide 
some inconsistency in answers. But here Mr Ws responses were clearly that of someone 
who was the lowest risk.
In particular he said I prefer little or no risk of loss. My main concern is the safety of my 
initial investment. And Minimising the risk of a drop-in value of my investment is critical, so 
I am willing to accept the lower long term returns offered by conservative investments. 
These were both the lowest risk options. I dont think any of the other answers muddied the 
waters in terms of his attitude to risk  it was low - he was largely risk averse.
The documentation that has been provided to us from the time that the advice was given 
doesnt record what other financial provision Mr W had, such as savings and investments 
or any other pensions. It also didnt record his level of income at that time. In his complaint 
letter Mr Ws representative said he was self-employed, had another small personal 
pension fund, but had no other material savings or investments.
The critical yields required on the transfer value to match the OPS benefits at age 65 
were calculated as 13.2 and 12% on two of the TVAS. They were calculated as 0% to age 
55 on the two other TVASs.However it appears to me that the figures used for the benefits provided by the OPS were 
inconsistent between the TVASs at age 55 and those at age 65. For example those to age 
55 said the Pre and Post 88 GMP of £436.28 and £425.36 on one part of the scheme 
would only revalue at 7.5% per annum from 10 July 2011. It doesnt appear to have taken 
into account revaluation from 5 February 1993 - which the TVAS to age 65 did (and given 
the date of leaving is stated as 5 February 1993 - this appears to be correct).
There were also inconsistencies between the starting pension figures on the other TVAS 
(again I think due to different approaches taken on re-valuation in deferment between the 
comparative calculations). This meant the revalued pension to age 65 would be £13,163 if 
left in the OPS. But only £1,785 would be payable at age 55. I accept the latter was the 
revalued figure to age 55 with a 4% per year reduction for early retirement. But again I 
have doubts that this is the correct figure (to age 55). And it wasnt consistent with the 
figures provided in the OPS Provision report. I think the adviser should have spotted this 
given they were relying on these figures. Morgans Ltd should confirm whether the yields 
were correct and provide an explanation of the figures when responding to this provisional 
decision.
The critical  yields  to age 65 were  clearly  very high by industry  standards  at the 
time.  The firms  own letter  said that  If the required  investment  return  is too high 
perhaps  over 10%  per annum  compound  then it would  be usual  to leave  the 
benefits  preserved  and Current  market  wisdom  says  that a transfer  should  not 
take place  if the required  investment  return  is greater  than 7% per annum.
So I think the critical yields required to age 65 were very unlikely to be achieved  and were 
clearly inconsistent with the risks that were appropriate for a low risk investor.
I accept the critical yields are only one factor to consider. But they provided some context 
to the risks of transferring out of the OPS and what Mr W was giving up and could have 
been payable at age 65. As I have said above, Morgans Ltd has said the reason for the 
transfer was to access the tax-free cash without the obligation to take an income, and the 
other flexibilities and death benefits provided by the personal pension. However these have 
to be weighed up in the context of Mr Ws appetite for risk.
The fact-find recorded that Mr W had a mortgage but no loans or credit card debts. If he 
wanted tax-free cash immediately he may have been able to borrow the money through a 
personal loan or by re-mortgaging his property. Ive seen no persuasive evidence this 
option was considered or discussed.
However, even if I accept that Mr W wanted to take tax-free cash rather than have further 
borrowings, the most appropriate option given the firm had identified he was a low risk 
investor  and given his answers to the questionnaire, in my view he was risk averse  was 
to take the benefits from his OPS (or indeed, buy an annuity).
I accept this would have meant he was taking an income, when it was recorded he had no
need of an income at that time. However this was the lower risk option. And it appears Mr W
did start taking an income at the same time as the transfer was completed. The letter from 
the pension provider dated 10 September 2011 confirming the plan was up and running 
said an income would be paid of £551 per month.
If Mr W had taken benefits from the OPS it would have ensured that he had a largely 
guaranteed increasing income throughout his lifetime, and without the need for exposure 
to investment risk. As I have said above, I have doubts that the 0% critical yields 
calculated were correct. But irrespective, given all the charges, the investment needed to make 2% per year just to stand still. So by transferring, Mr W was exposed to investment 
related risks  even if the funds selected in themselves presented fairly low risks.
So was the extra flexibility/change in death benefits provided by the personal pension a 
good reason for Mr W to give up the largely guaranteed income that he could have received 
from the OPS and for the remainder of his lifetime?
Given the critical yields required to age 65, there was little prospect of Mr W improving on 
the pension that would otherwise have been payable from the OPS if the intention had been 
to take his benefits at age 65. Or indeed, anytime in the few years approaching that age - 
the OPS would always likely have provided higher benefits.
In this case Mr W accessed his pension immediately. As Ive said, I think the critical yields 
calculated to age 55 were likely to be incorrect. I think the yields were likely to be higher, 
and the transfers, in reality, to have presented a higher degree of investment risk than the 
firm had presented to Mr W, and higher than was appropriate given his low preference for 
risk. But even at the 0% critical yield, the charges were 2% per year and on transfer Mr W 
was exposed to investment risk. The lower risk option was to take the benefits from his 
OPS, and given the evidence suggests he was largely risk averse, my view is that the 
advice to transfer was unsuitable. Mr W should have been advised not to transfer and take 
the benefits from his OPS if required at that time. In my view the benefits of a transfer 
didnt outweigh the risks given Mr Ws clear preference for the lowest level of risk.
For the reasons outlined above Im not persuaded that the advice to transfer was suitable 
in the circumstances. I dont think Morgans Ltd met its obligations under COBS 9.2. Or its 
obligations under the regulators Principles to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence, and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for Mr W, who I 
think was entitled to rely on its judgement.
My provisional decision was to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I went on to set out how I thought 
Morgans Ltd should calculate and pay compensation to Mr W. 
I asked Mr W and Morgans Ltd to send me any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Morgans Ltd didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
It felt the advice to transfer to an income drawdown arrangement was suitable for Mr 
W. It said it wasnt clear what discussions wed had with Mr W about his recollections 
about the advice. It thought its records showed the advice was suitable, but said they 
could never fully capture the extensive discussions itd had with Mr W at the time, or 
his state of mind when he entered the advice process. It said it couldnt see how we 
could judge the advice accurately without taking time to question Mr W.
It said a wide range of factors needed to be taken into account when assessing the 
suitability of a transfer, it wasnt a straightforward matter. The FCA had made it clear 
firms shouldnt engage in a binary analysis based on the critical yield. The provisional 
decision had put a high degree of emphasise on the critical yield, which it didnt think 
was appropriate. 
Mr W wanted access to the tax-free cash to build an extension that would be used for 
his work, and to put some money towards his daughters wedding. These were 
objectives that he wanted to achieve and were enabled by the transfer. It didnt think 
the alternative sources of raising money as Id suggested in my provisional decision 
were likely possible given Mr Ws circumstances. It thought what Mr W would likely have done as an alternative needed to be tested in more detail. 
As a result of the transfer Mr W now had funds in a drawdown account which 
provided substantially higher death benefits and flexible access. He was able to build 
the studio and fund his daughters wedding. If he hadnt followed its advice he 
wouldnt have had these benefits; hed have had a lower tax-free cash entitlement 
and reduced income from 55, or had to wait several years to access his full 
entitlement. Mr W had clearly benefitted from the transfer. 
Notwithstanding that it didnt agree the advice was unsuitable, it thought these 
benefits above werent taken into account in the compensation that had been 
proposed. Mr W would be put back into a better position than he would otherwise 
have been in. It asked what Mr W would do if he received a cash sum as redress, 
and whether he was taking any steps to fix his income given my finding that he would 
have stayed in the OPS. It said if he was intending to remain in drawdown this was 
clear evidence he was happy to continue with investment risk and likely make use of 
his flexible benefits.
It hadnt advised Mr W that it was looking to match the benefits from the OPS. It 
thought it was very clear this wasnt the case and the flexibility of being able to 
access a greater amount of tax-free cash, better death benefits and flexibility of 
income were all extremely good reasons to transfer. It felt that it had assessed the 
proposed transfer in detail, and had showed that it was likely in Mr Ws best interests, 
therefore it had met its regulatory obligations.
Mr Ws representative said he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. 
I agree with Morgans Ltd that a transfer isnt a straightforward transaction. Its a complex 
matter, with a number of interrelated factors to take into account. I think thats why the role of 
the adviser is particularly important in this type of transaction, with so many competing 
factors to weigh up in the context of the clients objectives and circumstances. 
Morgans Ltd has set out the benefits Mr W obtained by transferring and considers they were 
aligned to his objectives and that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. However both the 
advantages and disadvantages needed to be considered in the round, and appropriate 
weight given to each in order to provide suitable advice.
I think whats key here is that Mr W has said that he was a low risk investor. This is 
consistent with the firms records from the time. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr Ws 
answers to the risk questionnaire put him in the firms lowest risk rating; he was clearly risk 
averse. Remaining in the OPS was a largely risk-free option. So there needed to be a good 
reason to transfer out of it and expose Mr Ws pension benefits to investment related risk. 
Morgans Ltd has said Mr W was able to gain access to the tax-free cash that he required at 
the time. However the tax-free cash available from the OPS was only slightly below that 
offered by the personal pension at age 55. Morgans Ltd has accepted the figures in the 
TVASs to age 55 were incorrect. They appear to significantly understate the benefits from the OPS, and the critical yields to age 55 were likely to be higher than those calculated. 
The figures used in the suitability letter were different, and its not entirely clear to me 
whether these were correct or not. If not, its possible the benefits from the OPS were higher 
than set out in the suitability letter. But even assuming they were correct, the tax-free cash 
from the OPS was only slightly lower than from the personal pension. I dont think the 
difference in the amount available was material to Mr W achieving his objectives if they were 
his priority at the time. He could have tailored those plans where necessary, but without 
taking any risk with his pension income going forward.
I accept that the death benefits changed on transfer and Mr W may have found their 
structure more attractive than those provided by the OPS. However the main driver behind 
the advice to transfer was to gain access to the tax-free cash; the suitability letter said Mr W 
didnt require an immediate income but wanted flexibility when required. And he wanted to 
access his tax-free cash. The death benefits were explained as a benefit and I have taken 
this into account. But they need to be considered in the context that they came at a cost  
the loss of the guarantees offered by the OPS.
In this case Mr W accessed his pension immediately. As Ive said, I think the critical yields
calculated to age 55 were incorrect and understated the benefits from the OPS. I think the 
yields were likely to be higher, and the transfers, in reality, to have presented a higher 
degree of investment risk than was understood at the time. I dont think Mr W was alerted to 
the risks presented by transferring and taking benefits against taking immediate benefits 
from the OPS. 
In his complaint letter Mr W said that if he had been advised of the valuable benefits being 
lost and the risks of effecting a transfer, he would have chosen to remain with his existing 
scheme. He said he would have sourced his short- term cash needs elsewhere or decided 
not to go ahead with his planned home improvements. This is said through his 
representative and several years after the transfer. However it is consistent with the 
contemporaneous evidence, in particular Mr Ws preference for risk at the time. Im satisfied 
Im able to make my decision on the evidence currently provided, and I dont think making 
further enquiries with Mr W will provide any further assistance.
As I said in my provisional decision, COBS 9.2 required Morgans Ltd to give suitable advice, 
and in order to do so it needed to consider Mr Ws preference for risk and his risk profile. If 
Mr W had taken benefits from the OPS he may have received a slightly lower level of tax 
free cash (if the figures in the suitability letter were correct), but it would have ensured that 
he had a largely guaranteed increasing income throughout his lifetime, and without the need 
to expose his pension to risk. 
For the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, my view is that the advice 
wasnt suitable as it wasnt aligned to Mr Ws preference for risk  he was clearly the lowest 
level of risk/risk averse. Im not persuaded there was a need for Mr W to transfer to achieve 
his primary objective, and I dont think all the benefits of the transfer which I have taken into 
account outweighed the disadvantages for Mr W. 
Mr W wasnt advised that the transfer presented a greater degree of risk than he wanted to 
take, but provided the benefits as described by the firm. Im satisfied that if Morgans Ltd had 
alerted Mr W that the transfer wasnt aligned to the degree of risk that he wanted to take and 
advised Mr W not to transfer, he would more likely than not have accepted that advice.
Morgans Ltd has said the proposed compensation puts Mr W into a better position than he 
would otherwise have been in. However Mr W is now in a different position because of the 
unsuitable advice Morgans Ltd provided. So his choices going forward are made from a different starting position as a result its advice. I dont think they necessarily reflect what he 
would have done at the time of the transfer. The pension review methodology was 
specifically developed by the regulator to provide compensation for individuals unsuitably 
advised to transfer out of their OPS. Im satisfied it provides for calculating and paying fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.
For the reasons I have outlined above, Im not persuaded that Morgans Ltd met its 
obligations under COBS and PRIN. I dont think the advice to transfer was suitable, and 
therefore I consider that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W, as far as its possible, into the 
position that he would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice. I think Mr W would 
have remained in his OPS and taken benefits from it if suitable advice had been given. I 
therefore intend to order that Morgans Ltd calculates and pays compensation to Mr W on the 
following basis. 
Morgans Ltd should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in it s Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Morgans Ltd may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Morgans Ltd receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it 
takes Morgans Ltd to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
I also order that Morgans Ltd pays Mr W £400 for the distress and inconvenience Im 
satisfied having a potentially materially lower income in retirement has caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
I dont know the amount of compensation payable through the calculation as described 
above. However, if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more
than £160,000, I recommend that Morgans Ltd pays Mr W the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Morgans Ltd doesnt have to 
do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. Mr W may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I order Morgans Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr W as I have outlined under 
Putting things right above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman