DRN-1664132
 
The complaint
Ms K makes a number of complaints about London Mutual Credit Union Limited.
What happened
Ms K complains that London Mutual refused her credit applications and has not given her 
copies of her account statements. She also says it incorrectly allocated about £300 to the 
wrong account and has given her poor service. Ms K would like a loan that she has, written 
off.
London Mutual doesn't accept making a mistake and says statements were sent to those 
representing Ms K. It says it's entitled to assess any credit applications and if necessary 
refuse such applications. It also says it did allocate £40 to the wrong account and explained 
what had happened at the time.
Ms K brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was up to London Mutual when exercising its commercial judgement to decide with 
whom it lent money. And thought it had fairly explained it refused the borrowing as it thought 
it was unaffordable. The investigator didn't think there was any evidence Ms K had been 
unfairly treated and thought statements were made available and that he could send her 
them. The investigator thought £40 was sent to the wrong account and not £300 and that 
didn't appear to have any impact on Ms K.
Ms K doesn't accept that view and says problems were  caused when she suffered fraud 
and says to decline the credit applications was unfair and forced her into high interest rate 
loans elsewhere. She says she was prevented from withdrawing her savings and that it was 
£300 placed in the wrong account. Ms K says she was badly treated in London Mutual's 
branch and shouted at by its staff. She says the investigator has not carried out enough 
financial analysis of what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Ms K will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I also make clear to Ms K that I can only look at her complaint points that she asked London 
Mutual to look at. So I can't look at any new complaints, such as how Ms K says she was 
treated in branch. I also can't carry out any financial analysis of London Mutual as that is not 
our role as we are not its regulator.
I'm satisfied that it's up to London Mutual to decide what its lending criteria is, and to whom it 
lends to. I think such matters are for any business to decide upon when exercising its 
commercial judgement and it's not something I can fairly interfere in. I appreciate that Ms K applied for credit from London Mutual, but I'm satisfied it fairly assessed each application 
and decided the credit was not affordable. I appreciate Ms K says she was forced to take out 
credit elsewhere at a higher interest rate, but I can't fairly hold London Mutual responsible for 
that and I think it's not obliged to lend.
I have looked at Ms K's account statements and can see that £40 was transferred from one 
account to another. I have not seen any evidence that sum was £300 or that Ms K suffered 
any financial loss as a result of that transfer.  I think the investigator has fairly offered to 
provide the account statements to Ms K and can see that London Mutual says it sent them 
as instructed to the organisation that was helping Ms K with debt problems. So I can't fairly 
conclude that London Mutual has prevented Ms K from seeing those statements.
Overall I'm satisfied London Mutual has dealt fairly with this complaint. And in any event I 
find it would be unfair to order it to write off a loan balance when Ms K had the benefit of that 
money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman