DRN-3972169
The complaint
Miss M complains that Employment Law 4 U Ltd (EL4U) pressured her into accepting their 
services. 
What happened
Miss M had already started the process of an Employment Tribunal claim, when In June 
2022 she said she sought to engage a solicitor to help her as she was struggling with the 
level and detail of the responses needed for her claim. She looked at the services offered by 
EL4U and after some discussion was considering their terms and fees before agreeing to 
use them. But after sending an email to EL4U questioning the level of fees theyd look to 
charge, Miss M said she was told that work had already begun and a fee would be charged 
for this if she didnt take EL4Us services further. 
Miss M said she didnt think she had any choice as she couldnt pay the cancellation fee and 
so she signed EL4Us letter of engagement (LoE). But Miss M said she was concerned 
about the financial impact this would have on her, so she asked to cancel the agreement. 
EL4U said theyd remove themselves from being Miss Ms representative and offered a 
discounted fee of £750 for the work theyd done for her to resolve the matter.
As neither party could agree a resolution Miss M referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said EL4U had done work for Miss M prior to her signing the LoE. He said 
he was persuaded that Miss M was still considering the services of EL4U and  only agreed 
to using them when she was told shed have to pay for the work theyd already done for her 
 estimated to be around £900. He didnt think EL4U had provided enough information to 
Miss M about what they would be doing before shed formally agreed to use their services. 
He said if they had it was most likely that Miss M wouldnt have agreed to this before signing 
the LoE. He said EL4U should waive all fees and charges.
EL4U hasnt responded to our investigators outcome so Miss Ms complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know EL4U feel strongly that thered been a verbal agreement in their phone discussions 
with Miss M but neither party has provided this evidence as the calls werent recorded. So 
where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Having done so I uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see Miss M first contacted EL4U at the end of May 2022. And EL4U offered their 
services after an initial discussion on a No Win No Fee basis with a success fee of 35%. 
EL4U sent the LoE, pre contract information their terms and conditions and a cancellation 
form to Miss M on 01 June 2022. 
Ive considered these, EL4Us terms and conditions say:
Our engagement will commence from the earlier of either (1) the date on which we first act 
upon instructions given by you in respect of a particular matter or (2) the date of our relevant 
engagement letter.
And the terms and conditions give Miss M the right to cancel within 14 days of signing the 
LoE. 
Miss M after considering the terms and fees sent an email to EL4U on 05 June 2022 as 
shed understood that shed pay a fee for time spent capped at a maximum of 25%. In 
response EL4U told Miss M they considered shed agreed to the use of their services in their 
phone discussions, and to end the agreement shed need to pay their fee for three to four 
hours work theyd done for her. EL4U in their pre contract information and engagement letter 
said they would charge £225 per hour exclusive of VAT. But I can also see in EL4Us pre 
contract information that under cancellation it says if Miss M cancelled the contract  that 
being No Win No Fee  before it was resolved Miss M would pay £180 per hours plus 
expenses. But at this point Miss M hadnt signed the LoE. So, I think this led Miss M to 
estimate this fee to have been around £675 to £900. 
EL4U has provided an itemised bill for the work they carried out for Miss M before the 
agreement was cancelled. The key dates I think are from 30 May 2022 to 05 June 2022, the 
initial discussion until Miss M questioned EL4Us terms and fees. From the information 
provided by EL4U for the work they say they did I can only equate a total of two hours, not 
the three to four that they told Miss M theyd done (this excludes the initial discussion as this 
was a free consultation). From the itemised bill the work described consisted of a general 
discussion with Miss M, and emails sending the pre contract information, terms and 
conditions, cancellation form and chasers for the return of the client questionnaire and LoE.  
I havent seen any evidence that EL4U had done any work on a particular matter for Miss 
Ms employment tribunal claim. Or that Miss M had given instructions about a particular 
matter. I can see that in the email trail Miss M had said I will wait to instruct you officially 
and for responding to the tribunal EL4U said they  would reply after getting signed LoE.  
So, Id consider EL4Us engagement wouldnt start until the date of the LoE which Miss M 
signed 06 June. 
Ive now considered Miss M signing the LoE. I think from the email Miss M sent 05 June to 
EL4U she was still considering whether to engage their services as she was questioning the 
level of the fee they would charge. But after EL4U said if she didnt go ahead she would 
have to pay for the work theyd done, I think its clear from Miss Ms response that she was 
put into a position where she felt she had to agree to the use of EL4Us services as she 
didnt have the money to pay the fee EL4U said she would owe them. And as outlined above 
I think the inference given by EL4U as to the fee Miss M would owe them was over inflated. 
And I dont think any fee would have been owed by Miss M as shed yet to engage EL4Us 
services at this point. as she hadnt signed the LoE.
Putting things right
EL4U is required to provide Miss M with information that is fair, clear and not misleading 
before she agreed for them to represent her. I dont think EL4U acted fairly and reasonably as I think if Miss M hadnt been led to believe she owed a substantial fee to EL4U I dont 
think she would have signed the LoE. And by not signing the LoE Miss M wouldnt have 
engaged EL4U to do any work for her. So I think EL4U should waive the fees theyve 
charged.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Employment Law 4 U Ltd  to waive all fees and charges 
theyve asked Miss M to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman