DRN-4019863
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is unfairly holding him liable for repayment of a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr D holds a sole trader business account with Lloyds. Originally, it was for his own trading 
under a business name, which is the name of the account. Ill refer to the business as L. 
Around 2013, Mr D ceased trading as L. Thereafter his wife, Mrs D, who was an authorised 
signatory on the account, used the account for her holiday lettings business. This was with 
Mr Ds agreement, though the bank wasnt informed of the change of business.
Sadly, Mrs D died in October 2020. Mr D says he later discovered that a £25,000 BBL had 
been taken out in the name of L, based on the L business account activity. 
In May 2020 there had been a successful application for a BBL and Lloyds had transferred 
the loan funds to Ls business account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Under a government-backed scheme, lenders could 
provide a loan with a six-year term for up to 25% of the customers turnover.
In 2021 Mr D complained to Lloyds, saying that Mrs D had applied for the loan without his 
knowledge and it was unfair for the bank to hold him liable for the debt. 
Lloyds has said that if Mrs D applied for the BBL, she did so in her capacity as account 
delegate and signatory as authorised by Mr D, and that the sole trader is liable for any debt 
held on a sole trader account, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was minded to conclude that a fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for both sides to share the burden of the debt equally  in 
other words, for the bank to halve Mr Ds debt. My reasons are included in my findings 
below. 
In response, both parties said they disagreed with my provisional decision, but for different 
reasons, which I also summarise below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I remain of the same view that I reached in my provisional decision, as I 
set out below.
This decision deals with events that are sad and distressing. Mrs D died during the period 
covered by the complaint, and her actions during the months before her death are central to 
the arguments put by the parties. As the dispute is about financial liability, I must inevitably 
focus on the financial events, and with some detachment. What I write below may sound 
rather matter-of-fact and I hope Mr D will understand that I mean no disrespect or 
unkindness. I recognise that going over these events must be painful for Mr D.
The parties main arguments
At its core, Mr Ds argument is that he didnt apply for or authorise the BBL, or even know 
about it until after his wifes death, and therefore he shouldnt be held liable for the loan debt. 
Lloyds main argument is that the loan was taken in connection with Mr Ds own business 
bank account, the funds were paid into the account, and Mrs D was an authorised user of 
the account  so even if she did apply for the loan, the liability for repayment rests with Mr D 
as the account holder. 
I believe theres some strength in both of these arguments. But having considered all the 
circumstances of the case, I find that neither argument can, on its own, lead to a fair and 
reasonable outcome of the complaint. Ill explain why and then go on to explain my decision 
on what a fair and reasonable outcome would be.
Did Mrs D apply for the loan without Mr Ds knowledge?
Mr D says he didnt make the application for the BBL and, as far as I can see, theres no 
evidence that he did apply for it. As a signatory to the L business account, Mrs D had online 
access to the account and she would have been able to apply for the BBL without Mr Ds 
involvement. Theres been some confusion about whether there was a signature on the 
application, but I understand that there was no wet signature. Having looked at the 
application details, I think its significant that the phone number and email address provided 
at the time were different from the ones used normally on the account, and werent Mr Ds. 
The banks emails about the loan would then have gone to an address under Mrs D's 
business domain name. This would be consistent with Mrs D submitting the loan application 
without Mr Ds knowledge. Mr D has made it clear that in all other respects, Mrs D had for 
years been the only person who used the account and that she kept her business affairs to 
herself. 
Lloyds points out that at one point Mrs D moved some of the loan funds into a personal 
account she held jointly with Mr D. The bank argues that Mr D would have seen the receipt 
of the funds in that account, and would therefore have been aware of the BBL. But even if 
Mr D had checked the joint account statement and seen the transfer, there was nothing on 
the statement to indicate that the funds had originated from the proceeds of a loan. 
Furthermore, most of the money was transferred on the same day to another of Mrs Ds 
accounts. Here I agree with Mr Ds solicitor, who says Mr D would have seen it as just 
another incident of Mrs D moving funds around for the business. I dont think the transfers to 
and from the joint account would have made Mr D aware of the BBL.
For these reasons, I find the evidence supports Mr Ds claim that he didnt apply for the BBL 
and that he didnt know of it until after his wifes death. 
Im not saying here that Lloyds made any error in agreeing to the loan application. As far as I 
can tell, the banks processes for the BBL application were in line with the arrangements 
established by the authorities for banks to issue such loans. In other words, this was 
standard industry practice as required for the BBL scheme. Mrs D was able to take 
advantage of the request for email and phone contact details on the application form, but 
again these were standard features of the form, and Im not aware of any requirement for 
them to match the current account contact details. In response to my provisional decision, Lloyds says the bank is uncertain what alternative 
action it could have taken. But although my conclusion is that a fair and reasonable 
resolution of the complaint would be for the bank to reduce Mr Ds debt, I repeat that its not 
because of any error Lloyds made in agreeing the lending. I explain the reasons for my 
conclusions elsewhere in this decision.
Mr Ds solicitor has asked further questions about whether there is a signed loan agreement, 
but I dont think I need any further evidence about the arranging of the BBL in order to 
determine whats fair and reasonable in this complaint. In my view, as Ive said above, its 
likely that Mrs D arranged the BBL without Mr Ds knowledge, and the bank, having followed 
the usual procedures for this kind of loan, paid the funds into Mr Ds sole trader account.
How were the BBL funds used?
Ive looked carefully at statements for Ls business account and statements for the account 
into which the BBL funds were transferred shortly after drawdown (the bank has explained 
that this other account was Ls savings account).
There were numerous transactions and its difficult to see exactly how all the BBL funds 
were used. Mrs Ds business routinely received money from, and sent money to, other bank 
accounts and PayPal accounts, and there were many card payments and transfers to a 
variety of retailers and other traders. But in my view, the entries on the statements do show 
the following:
The bank initially paid the £25,000 BBL funds into the L business account in May 
2020. In less than a week, all the money was then transferred into the savings 
account. Then there was a series of transfers from the savings account back into Ls 
business account  by mid-July, over £25,000 had been transferred back. In other 
words, the BBL funds were moved initially to the savings account but were all later 
fed back into the main business account.
Revenue from lettings fell away substantially during the first half of 2020. Lettings 
began to recover in July and saw substantial growth in August. By September, 
revenue was nearly covering outgoings. This would be in line with the timing of the 
coronavirus restrictions. In the spring and summer of 2020, outgoings on properties 
and staff seem to have exceeded revenue. It therefore appears that the BBL funds  
those that were used in the business  enabled Mrs Ds business to get through the 
lockdown period and to begin sustainable trading again. 
Before any of the events in this complaint, Mrs D appeared to make regular drawings 
from the L business account to her personal accounts. There were also some 
transfers in the other direction, from Mrs Ds separate business account into the L 
business account.
At the end of May 2020, there was a transfer of £10,000 from the L business account 
to Mr and Mrs Ds joint personal account, most of which was immediately transferred 
to Mrs Ds sole accounts. Its possible that some of this money returned to the L 
business account via transfers from Mrs Ds business and PayPal accounts, but I 
cant be sure of that. Its also possible that most or all of the money stayed with 
Mrs D.
I believe the statements also show that some spending from the L business account 
went directly to support Mr and Mrs Ds household expenses. Mr D says that 
payments at supermarkets were largely for small items to stock the holiday flats, and that payments to restaurants and cafes were for meetings with clients. But I note 
there were also payments to opticians, pet shops, music streaming and other media 
services, hotel accommodation, train companies and a range of other retailers. I 
doubt these were all needed for the holiday lettings business, so I conclude the 
account was also used for non-business payments which benefited the household. 
Again, in my view, its not possible to tell exactly how much of the loan funds were 
used in this way, though it appears that the sums were much less than the amount 
used to support the business during the gap in revenue.
When Mrs D died, there was less than £2,500 in the L business account, though 
during the following weeks some funds were transferred in (including from Mr Ds 
personal account) as Mr D tried to put matters in order and to keep part of the lettings 
business running. Unfortunately, despite Mr Ds efforts, it wasnt possible to continue 
with the business.
The business account and the BBL
Lloyds has correctly pointed out that Mrs D was authorised by Mr D as a signatory to Ls 
business account. She was therefore entitled to operate the account. As the account holder, 
Mr D is liable for any expenditure on the account.
The BBL, however, was a different financial product  a loan, governed by its own separate 
agreement. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to regard Mrs Ds status regarding the 
L business account as authorisation to agree a loan on behalf of Mr D. In making Mrs D a 
signatory on the L business account, I dont think either Mr D or Lloyds had intended or 
foresaw that it would allow her, acting alone, to commit Mr D to borrow a sum of the order of 
£25,000.
In practice, the BBL application arrangements relied on the existence of a business current 
account for its set-up, drawdown and repayment. But I dont think that means the loan was a 
feature of the business current account. I dont think applying for the BBL could reasonably 
be described as operating the L business account  it was an application for another 
product. 
In response to my provisional decision, Lloyds has said that the mandate gave Mrs D sole 
authority for non-payment transactions, which included new borrowing. The bank hasnt 
provided the original mandate form, or a copy of it, but it has sent an excerpt from the 
standard mandate variation form.
Ive looked carefully at the excerpt. It refers to non-payment transactions as follows: Signing 
instructions for any non-payment transactions (i.e. change of address, overdrafts etc.). The 
bank says this shows Mr D granted Mrs D full and unfettered access to take whatever action 
she wished, including applying for new borrowing. I agree that the mandate established that 
setting up an overdraft facility was a non-payment transaction, but I cant see that it gave 
Mrs D authority to approve any new borrowing outside the sole trader account. The authority 
was for transactions on the sole trader account and the only reference to borrowing was to 
overdrafts  a facility within the sole trader account. The BBL wasnt an overdraft, and in 
my view it wasnt a facility within the sole trader account.
Its therefore my view that the excerpt submitted by the bank doesnt show that the mandate 
authorised Mrs D to apply for new borrowing for the business outside the sole trader 
account.For these reasons, and given that I dont believe that Mr D knew about the application, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Mrs D was authorised by Mr D to apply 
for the BBL.
Mr Ds actions 
Mrs D was authorised to operate the L business account, but in practice she was the only 
user. Mr D had given up his own business and, with his agreement, Mrs D used the account 
exclusively for her holiday lettings business. Lloyds says it wasnt informed about the use of 
the account for Mrs Ds business. Mr D says the account was originally opened for both 
businesses together, but I can see no evidence in the account records that suggests the 
bank was told at any point that it would be used for a lettings business. I believe that if the 
bank had been told, it probably wouldnt have agreed to this use of the account. With L no 
longer trading, its likely that Lloyds would have closed the L business account, leaving Mrs 
D to obtain her own facilities.
As the account holder, Mr D was formally responsible for the spending on the L business 
account. Despite his ultimate liability for the expenditure, it seems clear that Mr D made no 
attempt to monitor what happened on the account. If he had done so, he would have seen 
that Lloyds had paid the £25,000 loan proceeds into the account in May 2020. He says 
Mrs D ran the business secretively and I have no reason to doubt that. Mrs D's substitution 
of the email address with her own business domain name is an example. But given his 
liabilities as the account holder, I would expect Mr Ds distance from his wifes business to 
have been all the more reason for him to keep a watch on the account. 
Irrespective of what I said earlier about the loan application and authorisation, I cant ignore 
the strong likelihood that if Mr D hadnt permitted Mrs D to use the L business account 
exclusively for her own business, or if hed taken steps to monitor the activity on the account, 
then the BBL wouldnt have been taken out without his knowledge. 
I should add that, considering all the evidence, I dont believe Mr D was running the lettings 
business jointly with his wife. Both Mr and Mrs D had debit cards for the account, and Mr D 
said he sometimes used his card, at his wifes request, to buy provisions for the holiday flats 
and to cater for meetings. To that extent he was assisting her business, but he says those 
were simply favours to her and he wasnt part of the main business. 
Its relevant here that the business collapsed soon after Mrs D died. I note that from October 
2020 onwards, Mr D and another family member operated the L business account, largely to 
deal with the residual lettings and to settle matters with property owners and others. They 
had hoped to keep part of the business running, but revenues tailed off within weeks. I dont 
think any of the account activity in this period indicates that Mr D previously had any 
significant role in the lettings business. Rather, these events indicate that the business had 
been entirely Mrs Ds. 
Was it Mr Ds sole trader account or a joint account?
Mr D says that he and Mrs D originally set up the L business account jointly for both their 
businesses, but I havent seen any evidence to support this. I have no reason to doubt Mr D 
when he says that he and his wife went to the bank together when the account was opened. 
But from what Ive seen, the account documents are consistent with Lloyds version of 
events  that the account was opened as a sole trader account for Mr Ds sole trader 
business, L, and that Mrs D was then added as a signatory. 
The mandate records show that Mr Ds signature was recorded for the account in June 2010 
and that Mrs Ds signature was recorded for the account in May 2011. The know your customer record for the account shows that it was a sole trader account for Mr D trading as 
L, and its business classification was activities of tourist guides  which matches Mr Ds 
business. Theres no mention of Mrs Ds lettings activities. The name of the account was L, 
which was Mr Ds trading name. Mrs D traded under different names.
Mr D has also suggested that if it was a sole trader account, then the bank was at fault for 
allowing him and Mrs D to believe that the account was a joint account. He maintains that 
the form of the account wasnt adequately explained to them at the time of opening. But 
again, Ive seen no evidence to support this. From the start, the name of the account was his 
own sole trader business and the bank records show that it was a sole trader account. I dont 
think Lloyds has done anything wrong here.
In any event, even if Im wrong about this and the account was set up as a joint account 
(which, to be clear, I dont believe it was), then my conclusions about the complaint wouldnt 
change. In other words, I dont think Mr Ds argument about the status of the account is 
relevant to the outcome of the complaint. If Mr and Mrs D had operated a joint business 
account  which would have been a partnership account  then all of his liabilities for the 
account expenditure and debt would be the same as with the sole trader account. Moreover, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds was originally told that the nature of the business was Ls activity, 
and theres no mention of holiday lettings in the banks records, so Im satisfied Lloyds 
wasnt told of the nature of Mrs Ds business activity in respect of this account. 
Did Mr D benefit from the BBL?
As I said above, theres no evidence that Mr D applied for the BBL or that he knew about it. 
But in my view, there are three ways in which he received some benefit of the loan funds.
First, I believe that some of the non-business spending, as discussed above, would have 
been to Mr Ds benefit, either directly or as a member of the household.
Secondly, and more importantly, I believe Mr D benefited from the BBL helping Mrs Ds 
business. I have already said that the BBL funds seem in part to have done the job which 
they were intended to do  to support Mrs Ds business when it was adversely affected by 
the coronavirus outbreak. Without the BBL, I believe Mrs Ds business would have been in 
serious financial trouble during the summer of 2020, which would have affected the 
household finances negatively. By the end of the summer, revenues were picking up again 
and, had Mrs D survived, its possible that the business could have returned to pre-covid 
trading levels. Mr D may not have had any involvement with the running of Mrs Ds business, 
but I believe the family would have suffered financially if the BBL hadnt kept the business 
running. Some of the funds appear to have been used to meet business commitments 
which, without the BBL, would have had to come from elsewhere. 
Thirdly, I also noted above that Mrs D made personal drawings from the business, which in 
mid-2020 wouldnt have been possible without the BBL. In particular, Mrs D transferred 
£10,000 to her personal accounts in May 2020. I think its reasonable to conclude that the 
BBL benefited the family finances, and therefore in part benefited Mr D.
Mr Ds solicitor says that because revenue came into Mrs Ds business up to and beyond her 
death, its impossible to separate the loan funds from other business income and therefore 
its not feasible to suggest Mr D benefited from the BBL. But having looked at the statements 
for the L business account, I disagree. Ive said above that in the spring and summer of 
2020, outgoings on properties and staff seem to have exceeded revenue, and therefore the 
BBL funds helped Mrs Ds business to get through the lockdown period. During that period, 
expenditure from the L business account was possible only because of the BBL funds. Later, 
even after the period when lettings began to revive, the L business account balance dwindled to less than £2,500. Overall, without the BBL funds, I believe Mr and Mrs Ds family 
finances would have suffered. Im satisfied that Mr D received some benefit from the BBL 
funds.
How should this complaint be resolved?
My role is to determine a fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint, taking into account 
all the circumstances. In Mr Ds complaint, I believe the circumstances are unusually 
balanced. Having carefully considered both parties responses to my provisional decision, I 
remain of this view. 
Theres no evidence that Mr D himself applied for the loan, or that he knew Mrs D applied for 
it, so I dont think it would be fair for Lloyds to require Mr D to repay the whole of the debt. 
But thats not the end of the matter. I think there are several reasons why it wouldnt be fair 
for me to require the bank to absorb the whole debt, as follows:
all the BBL funds were spent from Mr Ds own business account and he therefore 
has responsibility, as account holder, for that spending
having allowed Mrs D to operate her business from the account, Mr D then didnt 
monitor the transactions on the account to control any risk
the debt wouldnt have arisen if Mr D hadnt let Mrs D operate her own business from 
the account without the banks knowledge 
Mr D received some benefit from the BBL funds
I therefore believe that the debt was, in part, a result of the Mr Ds own actions and inactions, 
and that in addition he received some benefit from the loan funds. 
Mr Ds solicitor argues that theres no basis on which Mr D can be held liable for any of the 
borrowing  that as he didnt apply for the loan, Lloyds doesnt have a contractual 
relationship with Mr D for the purposes of the loan. The solicitor says this is a point of 
contractual law and, for that reason, it isnt fair or reasonable to hold Mr D to the loan  
indeed, Lloyds would have difficulty enforcing the debt in the courts because of a lack of 
legal basis.
The rules of this service set out how I am to determine a complaint. DISP 3.6.1R states that 
the ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.3R requires me to take law and 
regulations into account in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case.
Mr Ds solicitor argues that because I believe Mr D didnt apply for the BBL, I should find that 
there was no loan contract and that Mr D therefore owes no debt to the bank. But in my view 
the circumstances of this case are wider than just the authorisation of the BBL, and therefore 
wider than consideration of the BBL contractual relationship. Ive explained my reasoning 
above, but I should stress here that although Mr D didnt apply for the loan, he did receive 
the funds from the loan into his sole trader account and those funds were spent with his 
authority. In my view, the circumstances under which the proceeds of the loan were spent, 
with Mr Ds authority, are also relevant to determining a fair and reasonable outcome of this 
complaint. In other words, in considering all the circumstances of the case, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to ignore what happened to the proceeds of the loan. Nor do I think would be fair or reasonable to ignore Mr Ds actions regarding the risks of permitting 
Mrs D to use his account from which to run her own business.
The ombudsman service doesnt have the power to determine whether or not a debt is 
enforceable. That would be a matter for a court. My role is to determine what is in my opinion 
a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint brought to us, taking into account all the 
circumstances. 
Ive discussed in detail the evidence concerning the L business account and the BBL, and 
the arguments put by the parties. It isnt possible to quantify any of these different and 
conflicting factors with any accuracy. Nor would it be fair, in my view, to regard any argument 
as overriding the others. I think there are strong arguments on both sides, and I see no 
reason to hold either side above the other. 
My provisional decision was that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for both sides to 
share the burden of the debt equally  in other words, for Mr D to repay one half of the debt. 
Although the parties have stuck to their respective positions (Mr D saying that the debt 
should be extinguished and Lloyds saying that it should remain in full), neither has 
suggested an arithmetically different proportion in which the debt might be divided. I remain 
of the view that halving Mr Ds debt would be a fair and reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
For the above reasons, I conclude that the bank should reduce Mr Ds BBL debt by half.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Lloyds Bank PLC to reduce Mr Ds debt for repayment of 
the BBL by half.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman