DRN-3547447
The Complaint
Mr B says that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) (the Business) lent to 
him irresponsibly when he was granted a personal loan on 11 August 2016.
Background to the Complaint
The Business provided Mr B with a £3,000 loan repayable over 30 months at £195.49 a 
month. The Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was 79.9% and the total amount repayable 
after interest and costs was £5,864.70.
The Business records indicate that Mr B only made one contractual payment before 
contacting it in September 2016 to let it know that he was struggling financially and was 
taking debt advice. The Business says that it put his account on hold and requested some 
more information. It says that it heard nothing until December that year when Mr B  via a 
debt management company  offered to make reduced payments. The Business says that it 
agreed to those payments. So, thats what Mr B paid until April 2021 when he settled the 
loan. 
On 2 June 2021 Mr B made a complaint about the Business decision to lend to him using a 
professional representative (IC) and he argued, amongst other things, that the loan was 
unaffordable because the repayments made it more difficult for him to meet his essential 
spending.
The Business issued its final response on 15 June 2021 rejecting the complaint. It argued 
that, having considered the amount of credit, the size of the repayments, the results of its 
credit search and the information from Mr B (which included his monthly income but not, it 
seems, any expenditure other than existing credit commitments), its checks were reasonable 
and proportionate. 
The complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 27 October 2021. 
It was looked at by an investigator who asked Mr B for further information. She wanted to 
know:
whether Mr B was making any payments for rent, a mortgage and/or utility bills and, if he 
was, how much he was paying.
why Mr B had taken out a Payday Loan just before the loan in question.
why Mr B was making reasonably large cash withdrawals each month in the lead up to 
his loan from the Business.
In response, Mr B said the following:
The rent cannot be seen due [to] me being in the military, the payments for my 
accommodation came straight out of my monthly pay before I received the Bacs transfer. I 
believe it was £70/£80 for the month, after I left the [military] in 2019 I was living with my 
father which I was paying him £100 board. Now me and my partner have a mortgage which 
is costing us £700 a month due [to] the bad credit and little deposit due [to] paying loans off.
Since 2016 was a long time ago and keeping track of my finances from that time, I cannot 
state confidently why I took out a [Payday] loan, but it was most likely because I was 
struggling money wise.
Also the cash withdrawals were relatively high during that period due [to] deploying with the 
[military], every month, and paying little things in cash too people for leaving presents or 
mess functions etc.
In light of what the investigator now knew, she found that the Business checks werent 
reasonable and proportionate before concluding that, even if they had been, they would not 
have drawn its attention to a reason to conclude that the loan was likely to have been 
unaffordable.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment and said the following in response:
[] If Ive received a payment or a write off from the other companies, I put a claim in 
against around that time, then surely, they didnt dig deep enough to be confident I would 
make the payments on time. I was in a debt management prior before the loan []. I 
struggled to get a loan from anywhere due to my past circumstances but because I paid on 
time, I got one from []. I filed a complaint against them too and the debt got written off. I 
dont see how they can judge me highly and give me a £2000 loan and most companies 
couldnt give me £50. Something or some checks must not have been done thorough 
enough.
As Mr B and the investigator couldnt agree, this complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 29 April 2022. And in summary, while I thought that 
the Business hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I wasnt persuaded 
that such checks would have led it to conclude that Mr B was likely to find the loan 
unaffordable.
The Business had nothing further to add in response to my PD. And neither Mr B nor his 
representative, IC, responded.
So, as the deadline I set in my PD has passed, Im now in a position to consider this 
complaint for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made mydecision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons I set out in my PD  which Ill repeat below. I continue to realise that this will be 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand why Ive come to the conclusion I have.
But before I explain why, I want to repeat what I said in my PD about my role as an 
ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to 
decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that 
reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my 
conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from 
both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar 
as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Under the relevant legal and regulatory framework, the Business was obliged to lend 
responsibly. This meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr B could afford to meet 
the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan in question.
The relevant regulator didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment might require  
nor did it set out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice. Instead, it 
said that the necessary level of detail when carrying out a requisite assessment would 
depend on the risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation  though it 
wouldnt necessarily be limited to that.
The regulator did define the notion of sustainably repaying debt as being able to meet the 
repayments of a credit agreement without undue difficulty. And that includes being able to 
make repayments on time and without taking on additional borrowing to do so while also 
meeting other reasonable commitments.
So, there remain a number of overarching questions I need to consider when deciding a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint:
1. Did the Business carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
was likely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
i. If the Business had carried out such checks, did it lend to Mr B responsibly using the 
information it had?
Or
ii. If the Business didnt carry out such checks, would the requisite checks have 
demonstrated that Mr B was likely to have been able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way?
2. If relevant, did Mr B lose out as a result of the Business decision to lend to him?
Did the Business carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
There are many factors that could be relevant when determining how detailed
proportionate checks should have been. And while much will depend on the circumstances 
in question, the more obvious factors include  though arent necessarily limited to:
the type of credit Mr B was applying for along with the size, length and cost of the 
borrowing; andMr Bs financial circumstances  which included his financial history and outlook along 
with his situation as it was, including signs of vulnerability and/or financial difficulty.
And generally speaking, I think reasonable and proportionate checks ought to have been 
more thorough:
the lower an applicants income because it could be more difficult to make the 
repayments as a result; 
the higher the amount repayable because it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment, especially from a lower level of income; and
the longer the loan term, because the total cost of the credit was likely to have been 
greater given the longer time over which repayments have to be made.
As a result, the circumstances in which it was reasonable to conclude that a less detailed 
affordability assessment was proportionate strike me as being more likely to be limited to 
applicants whose financial situation was stable and whose borrowing was relatively 
insignificant and short-lived  especially in the early stages of a lending relationship.
The Business says that it agreed to lend to Mr B after considering the results of a credit 
search and the information he provided during his application  which only seems to have 
included his monthly income.1 And having done that, it calculated that Mr B had disposable 
income of just over £1,320 each month after existing credit commitments and the 
repayments to the loan in question were taken into account. 
Yet the information the Business got from its credit search did raise questions about the 
state of Mr Bs financial circumstances. According to the Business, Mr B went into default on 
one of his existing credit commitments over a year before he was granted the loan in 
question. And it looks like the defaulted balance hadnt been settled by the time he borrowed 
from the Business. 
With that being the case, I still find it difficult to explain why  if the Business calculation that 
Mr B had just over £1,320 in disposable income each month was reliable  he was applying 
for a loan with an interest rate of 79.9%. After all, for someone whose disposable income 
was calculated to represent just over 73% of what he took home each month, I find it 
surprising that the defaulted account still hadnt been settled sometime after it first went into 
default. And for that reason, I think there were real questions as to what Mr Bs financial 
circumstances were really like.
As I said in my PD, Im not saying that there arent circumstances in which the Business 
could lend to a customer whose credit file looked like Mr Bs. The point Im making again is 
that, in light of such an obvious inconsistency, greater care needed to be taken to ensure 
that the loan could be sustainably repaid based on his position as it was at the time.
Whats more, at £3,000, Mr Bs loan represented roughly 11% of his gross annual income. 
He was set to commit around a fifth of his net monthly income to repay that sum over 30 
months (two and half years), which meant he would pay £5,864.70 when the interest on the 
loan was factored in. And according to the Business, he already had just under £11,200 in 
existing unsecured debt.
In that context, I continue to question whether Mr Bs loan from the Business was either 
insignificant or short-lived. And in light of what his existing unsecured debt represented as a 
proportion of his declared annual income of £27,000, I still think a reasonably detailed 
1 The application data provided by the Business doesnt included any information on regular expenditure beyond what might 
have been thrown up by its credit search.understanding of his overall financial circumstances, including his regular expenditure, was 
not only proportionate but also necessary to determining whether the loan in question was 
likely to prove repayable on a sustainable basis.
However, the information Mr B provided during his loan application along with the Business 
credit search only gave it a partial picture of his financial circumstances. And as the 
Business doesnt appear to have taken any other steps to understand what his other regular 
outgoings were and how they were met, it knew very little about an area of his financial 
circumstances that I continue to think it needed to understand in more detail before it could 
reasonably reassure itself that he was likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan of the size 
and length in question.
Overall, therefore, as the checks the Business carried out threw up some questions that I 
think it needed to answer to ensure it wasnt brushing over a possible affordability concern, 
Im still not persuaded that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks having left 
those questions unanswered.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have demonstrated that Mr B was likely to have 
been able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
As I said in my provisional findings, it isnt possible to determine with certainty what 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown the Business in practice as I dont 
know what checks it would have decided to carry out if it had its time again.
So, as Ive said before, what Im deciding here is the likelihood of reasonable and 
proportionate checks showing the Business that Mr B either would or wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably repay his loan. And to make that decision, its necessary to consider 
information that the Business hadnt considered on 11 August 2016.
Mr B provided us with his bank statements covering 9 April 2016 to 10 October that year. 
The most relevant of these for the purpose of trying to understand what his financial 
circumstances were like before the Business lent to him are those that predate the loan. But 
as I think a three-month period would have given the Business sufficient insight had it 
requested bank statements, Ive continued to rely on the statements covering May, June and 
July (the Relevant Period). 
As Ive already suggested, I accept that something I can now see from information Mr B 
provided wouldnt necessarily have been disclosed by whatever reasonable and 
proportionate checks the Business might have decided to carry out. However, in the 
absence of any other contemporaneous evidence of Mr Bs financial circumstances from the 
Business, and as were now a numbers of years on from when he was lent to, its not only 
reasonable but necessary to rely on his bank statements.
Mr Bs bank statements reveal that he was paid £1,466.70 on 31 May, £1,728.57 on 30 June 
and £1,912.61 on 29 July  which means he was paid an average of £1,702.63 each month 
during the Relevant Period.
Its clear from Mr Bs bank statements that most of the money that left his account did so 
either by cash withdrawals or Debit Card transactions. And that does make it difficult to 
separate his regular essential spending from non-essential. However, the bank statements 
do reveal a number of payments by Direct Debit  which I wont repeat here as I set them 
out in my PD. It also looks like Mr B was making regular Debit Card payments to a Credit 
Card provider. And in aggregate, the more obvious outgoings that Mr B appears to have 
been regularly committed to were something like £1,088.87 a month during the Relevant 
Period. As Ive said above, Mr Bs bank statements reveal that he was frequently making cash 
withdrawals (which he attributes to having been deployed with the UK military and paying 
little things in cash [to] people for leaving presents or mess functions etc) and Debit Card 
transactions at work. His rent was taken directly from his pay each month. So, he wasnt 
going to have to use his net monthly income to pay for any accommodation. I also suggested 
in my provisional findings that some UK military service personnel might also have had 
deducted from their pay a Daily Food Charge in relation to food provided to them at certain 
locations. And as Mr B hasnt disputed that in response to my PD, it still seems likely to me 
that the Business would not have had to account for either of those outgoings in their entirety 
had it explored his financial circumstances in more detail. 
So, in light of Mr Bs recollections in relation to the relevant cash withdrawals, and given 
what I understand about the deductions that could be taken from armed forces pay, it still 
seems likely to me that a large proportion of the withdrawals and transactions at his place of 
work were probably for discretionary spending. And for that reason, while Mr Bs bank 
statements make it clear that, overall, there was more money leaving his account than there 
was entering it over the course of each statement period, I still think it was his discretionary 
spending that helped to tip the scales in that way.
However, as I said in my PD, discretionary spending is, by its very definition, a cost that 
someone can usually live without. And had the Business seen the bank statements Ive seen 
and asked Mr B about his frequent cash withdrawals and transactions at work, I still havent 
seen anything persuasive to suggest that he would have given the Business a different 
account to that which he gave the investigator  such that he would have given it the 
impression that the withdrawals and Debit Card transaction were largely for essential 
expenses, for example, or that they otherwise didnt amount to discretionary spending. 
Mr B did take out a Payday Loan shortly before the loan from the Business. But his 
recollections as to why he applied for that are a little hazy. And as he only appears to have 
applied for a single Payday Loan during the Relevant Period, overall, Im still not persuaded 
theres enough here to say it would have been clear to the Business that he was in no 
position to make room for the loan repayments given his financial circumstances.  
As I said in my PD, Mr Bs bank statements do reveal a number of card transactions on two 
different betting websites. And they were cited by IC as a reason why the Business loan 
may have been unaffordable. However, his visits to those websites seem only to have been 
concentrated at the beginning of the Relevant Period  rather than throughout it.2 And as 
Mr B hasnt disclosed a gambling problem during the course of this complaint, Im still not 
persuaded there was a more significant issue that the Business may have had to contend 
with before lending to him.
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr B said that he was in a debt management 
plan before the Business lent to him. But he still hasnt provided any evidence to support that 
contention. So, it remains at odds with some of the other information on file. That wasnt, for 
example, what he said in his Complaint Form. The Business says that Mr B only let it know 
that he was seeking debt advice after having made the first contractual repayment to the 
loan. And the results of a credit search run by the Business on 15 June 2021 suggest that 
his debt management plan didnt start until 1 January 2017.
But even if Im wrong about the timing of Mr Bs debt management plan, I still dont think it 
would make a difference to the outcome of this complaint anyway. I say that because, 
according to the information the Business extracted from its credit search at the time of its 
lending decision, it doesnt look like there was anything obvious from the results of that 
2 It looks like Mr B spent £195 in May, £5 in June and nothing in July.search to suggest he was in a debt management plan at that time or otherwise struggling 
financially  nor, for the reasons Ive set out above, would there have been any such 
suggestion from his bank statements covering the Relevant Period had the Business seen 
them.
Overall, therefore, while I continue to recognise that Mr B had defaulted on one of his 
accounts some time before the Business lent to him, I still cant see anything in and amongst 
the information Ive seen that would have clearly indicated to the Business that its loan was 
likely to have been unaffordable for him on the basis that, between his existing credit 
commitments, regular expenditure (that wasnt discretionary) and the results of its 
contemporaneous credit search, he was going to struggle to make the loan repayments 
without a real risk of undue difficulty or further borrowing  such that lending to him was 
going to make an already difficult situation worse. And for that reason, Im not persuaded 
that the Business was wrong to lend to him.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman