DRN-1760848
 
The complaint
Mr M says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says making the loan repayments 
was difficult and he couldnt really afford them. When he was facing these problems Morses 
approved further loans over a long period of time. He thinks that Morses shouldnt have lent 
to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two home credit loans (loans 3 and 4) Morses provided to Mr M 
between February and July 2014. Some if the information Morses has supplied about Mr Ms 
lending is in the table below. 
Loans 1 and 2 are now the responsibility of another business so I wont be looking at them 
as part of this complaint. But it is my understanding that Morses was aware of these earlier 
loans when it approved loans 3 and 4. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm (weeks) date ended
1 24/08/2012 £200 32 25/06/2013
2 21/06/2013 £200 32 10/02/2014
3 08/02/2014 £200 32 28/07/2014
4 28/07/2014 £300 34 23/02/2015
Our adjudicator upheld complaint. He thought that Morses was wrong to approve loans 3 
and 4 due to the length of time that Mr M had already been using home credit. Morses 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that: 
whilst it was aware of the lending (it purchased loans 1 and 2 from another business) 
it did not use full details of the loans to inform its lending decisions; 
the loans were affordable for Mr M. He had no repayment problems with loans 1 and 
2 and the amounts he borrowed were 'stable';
so the lending pattern doesnt indicate that Mr M was struggling financially 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and Ive have explained why below.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 and 4 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ms lending 
history with Morses, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
3. I say this because:
at this point Morses ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had been using home credit for around a year and a half. So 
Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans were leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ms indebtedness was becoming unsustainable; 
Mr M was provided with a new loan as soon as the previous one ended. And it looks 
like he used the proceeds of the new lending to repay the loans he had;
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed. Loan 4 was taken out 
around two years after Mr Ms first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr M had paid 
significant amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period;so even though I can see that Morses did make some affordability checks, and these 
checks mayve shown on the face of it, that the loans were affordable. I think the 
lending pattern itself became harmful and so it shouldn't have lent
I think that Mr M lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 3 and 4 should be removed from Mr 
Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman