DRN-3768303
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc failed to provide adequate customer service and 
allowed a fraudulent transaction to take place on her account. 
What happened
Mrs A and her husband were on holiday when she noticed an unusual payment had been 
made from her current account. Mrs A was in a foreign country that had a significant time 
difference to the UK. 
Shed attempted to report this transaction but couldnt get through to Santander and 
eventually contacted them via a chat service. During the chat, Mrs A wanted to speak with 
the fraud team, but this wasnt possible at the time.
Mrs A was given an international number she should call to contact the fraud team and was 
told that they dont make outgoing calls. Mrs As card was blocked during the chat to prevent 
any other unauthorised use of it.
Mrs A raised a complaint about how shed been dealt with and the lack of support 
concerning the fraudulent transaction. Mrs A wanted to know how it had been authorised 
because the payment was for a quasi cash purchase which shed never used before. Mrs A 
was also concerned because shed notified her local branch that she would be away on 
holiday so couldnt understand why such a payment had been allowed to leave her account.
Mrs A didnt hear anything back until about four days after making her complaint and various 
emails and secure messages were exchanged between the parties. Santander attempted to 
call Mrs A whilst abroad on a couple of occasions but werent able to arrange a suitable time 
to discuss the situation.
Santander refunded the disputed transaction and sent a replacement card. They wrote to 
Mrs A about her complaint. She was unhappy with how Santander had dealt with her and felt 
they lacked empathy and had failed to assist her when she was abroad with her husband. 
Mrs A then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review of her issue.
Her complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for evidence from both 
parties. Mrs A supplied multiple documents supporting her assertion that Santander had let 
her down. She also supplied copies of emails and assessments of how Santander had 
handled her complaint.
Santander provided details of the disputed transaction and copies of correspondence 
between themselves and Mrs A.
After considering the evidence, the investigator felt that Santander could have handled their 
communications with Mrs A better when she first notified them about the disputed 
transaction and recommended an award of £100.
Santander accepted the report, but Mrs A did not. She believed that Santander had been the 
cause of worry and stress to her whilst she was on holiday with her husband. She thought 
the compensation award should be about £500.
No agreement could be reached so the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres any disagreement about the disputed transaction here. Both parties 
accept that Mrs A didnt authorise the payment that left her account and as Santander later 
refunded it, I no longer need to consider that particular aspect.
Mrs A wanted to understand how the transaction had left her account and why Santander 
hadnt stopped it. Their records indicate that two different payments were attempted from the 
same merchant and one was blocked whilst the other was successful. This payment was 
made using Mrs As card details and appears to be a card not present transaction. So, it 
looks as though an unidentified third party had obtained the necessary details in order to 
make this transaction. 
I dont think its likely that Mrs A will ever find out how her details were compromised as there 
are many ways for them to be obtained. But, once the correct details were used to make the 
transaction, Santanders system recognised them and sent the payment from Mrs As 
account. Thats because it would appear to Santander as a genuine request for a payment to 
be made from the card. A second attempt to use her card with the same merchant was 
blocked by Santanders fraud detection system. I appreciate Mrs A thought that Santander 
were at fault for allowing the payment to be made because shes never made that particular 
type of payment before. But here I dont think its reasonable for Santander to anticipate 
what someone will use their card for in the future. 
Mrs A believed that her notice to Santander about being away on holiday should have 
helped prevent this type of transaction to pass through her account. My understanding of the 
notice was that it meant that Santander were less likely to intervene in transactions within 
the country they were travelling to, rather than to add a different layer of security to her 
account. I understand Mrs As point about this, but Santanders approach to the notice to 
travel was intended to give her less problems whilst on holiday rather than change how they 
were assessing other types of payments.
Ive read through all the submissions provided by both parties and its apparent that when 
Mrs A first got through on the chat that Santander blocked her card to prevent any further 
losses to her account. They werent in a position to give Mrs A another card whilst she was 
abroad, but a new one was requested for when she returned. I dont think these actions were 
unreasonable, but I do think that Mrs As particular situation wasnt completely understood 
by Santander. I appreciate the process that Santander have to report fraud, but I do think 
that they could have contacted Mrs A sooner than they did to alleviate her worries about 
what might have happened to her funds.
It was three to four days before Mrs A heard anything and whilst there was no further impact 
on her account, Santander could have reduced Mrs As worries if theyd contacted her 
sooner and explained what was happening. Its clear that Mrs A was frustrated by 
Santanders approach and she spent considerable time trying to find out about the 
unrecognised transactions and the security on her account.I think its worth mentioning here that the unrecognised transaction was caused by an 
unidentified third party who stole money from Mrs As account. Santander accepted that she 
hadnt made the transaction and refunded it, effectively accepting the loss themselves. 
Santanders actions were fairly typical in what Id expect to see in such a situation, but I 
accept they could have communicated better with Mrs A. 
Mrs A wanted a more substantial payment for how Santander treated her, but I dont think 
thats warranted. Mrs As account was protected as soon as she reported it and a new card 
was ordered, which I understand was delivered and available for Mrs A when she finished 
her trip. I dont think that Santander could have reasonably done anything more with her 
account and her replacement card. But as Ive mentioned, I think they could have improved 
how they dealt with Mrs As concerns and understood her particular situation as it was no 
doubt worrying for her when she was so far from home. I think the investigators 
recommendation of a payment of £100 is both a fair and reasonable payment to address the 
impact of Santanders lack of service following the disputed transaction. 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, Santander should now pay Mrs A £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their handing of this situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc and theyre 
instructed to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman