DRN-3516228
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the amount esure Insurance Limited (EIL) has paid for a claim made on 
his car insurance policy.
All references in this decision to EIL include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
In response to Mr Bs claim with EIL following a road traffic accident, it considered his car to 
be a total loss. It offered him £3,000 for the loss of his car, having deducted £744 for what it 
deemed to be pre-accident damage sustained to it.
Believing his car to be worth more than £3,000, Mr B complained to this service. 
Our investigator ultimately recommended the complaint be upheld. They felt that the amount 
EIL deducted for pre-accident damage relating to the cars bonnet was fair based on the 
evidence provided. But they also felt the remaining items EIL had deducted hadnt been 
fairly taken off. In addition, the investigator believed it would be fair for EIL to discount the 
lowest of the three third-party car valuations it had obtained. All of this meant the investigator 
believed EIL should pay Mr B the shortfall plus interest at 8%.  
Mr B was willing to accept the investigators findings. EIL didnt agree with them, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. In summary, EIL remained satisfied with the 
valuation it had arrived at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Im pleased to see that the parties agree on the pre-accident damage deducted in relation to 
the bonnet of Mr Bs car. As such, I see no need to address that aspect in any detail in this 
decision other than to confirm that I believe EIL was entitled to deduct £308.52 from the 
settlement amount for that item.
This leaves two main issues for me to consider  the remaining items deducted on the basis 
that the damage was sustained pre-accident and the market value of the car from which the 
value of any pre-accident damage might be deducted. 
Market value
The policy terms define the market value as the amount a car could reasonably expected to 
sell for on the open market immediately before the accident or loss. EIL says this is based 
on the car itself and on research from specified motor trade guides. 
In this case, EILs provided evidence of valuations from three motor trade guides:
Motor trade guide A, which valued Mr Bs car at £4,090;
Motor trade guide B, which valued it at £3,757; and
Motor trade guide C, which valued it at £3,228.
EIL added those values and divided by three to come to a market value of £3,691. On the 
face of it, that might seem a reasonable course of action. But, looking at things more closely, 
I note the valuation provided by motor trade guide C is very different from the other 
valuations obtained  its more than £500 lower than the next lowest valuation. Relative to 
the amounts concerned, I think thats a significant difference.
With that in mind, I think it would have been fair for EIL to discount the valuation from motor 
trade guide C from its calculations and instead base the market value on the two remaining 
valuations. I work that new average out to be £3,923.50. I think that broadly represents a fair 
market valuation for Mr Bs car in the circumstances.
Pre-accident damage 
I think its important to stress that there may be instances where an insurer will be entitled to 
reduce any claim amounts paid in respect of damage that existed prior to the incident or 
loss. Thats because existing damage will often have an adverse effect on a cars market 
value. 
As Ive already said, I conclude that it was fair for EIL to deduct £308.52 regarding the cars 
bonnet, based on the report of its engineer and the evidence Ive seen overall. 
EIL took a further £435.48 off the market value regarding other items of pre-accident 
damage. Ive considered these items and related amounts very carefully. Having done so, 
Im not satisfied that EIL was entitled to make these further deductions.
I say that because of the nature of the damage EIL refers to and the age of Mr Bs car. EIL 
mentions, for example, scratches on the bumpers and alloys wheels and a panel dent. None 
of these, as far as I can tell from the available report and images, are more significant than 
might reasonably be expected on a car approaching 20 years old as Mr Bs was at the time. 
It follows that I dont believe it was fair for EIL to deduct the additional £435.48 from the cars 
market value.
Settlement amount
On the basis that a fair market value for Mr Bs car was £3,923.50, and that EIL was entitled 
to deduct £308.52 for pre-accident damage, I calculate a fair settlement amount in this case 
to be £3,614.98. This is £614.98 more than the £3,000 EIL offered to settle the claim for.
Putting things right
I think EIL should pay Mr B a total of £3,614.98 in settlement of his claim (including, and not 
in addition to, any amounts its already paid him). It should add interest at the simple rate of 
8% a year on the difference between £3,614.98 and the sum of any amounts its already 
paid him, calculated from the dates such amounts were paid to the date of full settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to put things right for Mr B as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman