DRN-4001819
The complaint
Mr B complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) and 
how they have dealt with an unarranged overdraft on his account with them.
What happened
Mr B had a basic current account with Virgin Money. The account didnt allow for any 
overdraft facility. In January 2021 the account went into an unarranged overdraft. In August 
2022 Mr B complained to Virgin Money. He didnt think he should have been given this credit 
as the account didnt allow an overdraft. So there hadnt been any affordability assessment 
carried out. Mr B asked for the debt to be written off and for compensation for the impact the 
reporting of this situation had on entries on his credit file, from February 2021.
Virgin Money partly upheld the complaint. In their final Response letter (FRL) dated 8 
November 2022 it declined to investigate the unplanned borrowing on the account and how 
this had arisen. It said this was as it had already fully responded in an FRL dated 16 March 
2021. In respect of both agreeing to a repayment plan and closing the account Virgin Money 
supported both these complaint points. It confirmed repayments had now been agreed for 
£60 per month. But it didnt think the late payment markers applied to Mr Bs credit file since 
January 2021 were incorrect. It told Mr B these markers would still have been applied to his 
account even if a repayment plan was in place. It apologised for the delays in closing the 
account and credited £100 to his account for the poor service Mr B had received. Mr B didnt 
agree and referred the matter to us.
Our investigator thought although Virgin Money hadnt handled the repayment plan requests 
from Mr B appropriately it would have been appropriate for it to set one up in this case. But 
he did think Virgin Money should have defaulted the account sooner based on industry 
guidelines. So, he thought Virgin Money should correct the credit file to show the account 
defaulting in July 2021. He also thought the compensation should be increased by a further 
£50 to reflect the impact of the default errors and the increased stress and pressure this 
would have caused Mr B.
Mr B told us he fundamentally disagreed with the investigator. He disagreed with the 
premise of some of the findings firstly that any charges and fees could be charged as part of 
any conversion of the account in a formal arrangement. He disagreed with the amount of 
additional compensation awarded. Virgin Money accepted the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr B is concerned weve not looked at his case as a whole. So, I think its important 
to set out at the beginning what I can and cant look at there. I wont be dealing with Mr Bs 
concerns about how the unarranged overdraft came into being and the fairness of that in this 
complaint. Thats already been addressed by both the bank in the FRL of 16 March 2021 
and this service in earlier complaint . As a service we cant consider the 
same points twice.
In respect of the concerns I can consider, Ive come to the same conclusions reached by the 
investigator for the following reasons.
The situation in which the overdrawn balance occurred meant there was no initial 
lending decision by the bank. The nature of a basic account is that there is no 
provision of an overdraft, so theres no contractual provision for one or its repayment. 
So, there was no contractual monthly payment missed, rather the full amount was 
due. And, from what Ive seen, Mr B couldnt immediately repay that. 
Irrespective of how the overdraft came about Im satisfied Mr B contacted and tried to 
agree repayments with Virgin Money as early as March 2021. He sent multiple 
emails that werent acknowledged. That must have been frustrating
Like the investigator I dont agree that it was impossible to consider a formal 
arrangement to pay. But ultimately it was up to It was for Virgin Money to decide if 
payments Mr B offered were acceptable. And as the investigator has said reaching a 
new agreement could have meant the introduction of interest and charges. Whereas 
there was no provision for such charges on an overdrawn basic account as matters 
stood.
When a customer is behind with repayments a bank shouldnt agree to a plan that 
requires a customer to repay in a way thats not sustainable to that customer. From 
what Mr B has told us about what he could offer, the amount owed and the time it 
would have taken to repay, based on ICO guidance and industry practice, its likely 
this wouldnt have been a responsible way forward.
Our investigators has already referred to the provision in the ICOs Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies on 
defaults so I shant repeat it here. But on the information before me I think the default 
should have been applied earlier - and so would drop from Mr Bs credit record 
sooner - than November 2022. It seems to me it should have been done six months 
after the overdrawn balance remained unpaid so in July 2021.
Virgin accept there were delays in closing the account and customer service failing 
here and has agreed to pay the further £50 recommended. I know Mr B is concerned 
that 18 months of incorrect reporting has already been in place and any credit checks 
in that time wouldve given the wrong impression. I do understand. But I can only 
deal with what has actually happened rather than what might have happened. And I 
havent seen evidence of any actual loss or detriment to Mr B over that period of time 
as a consequence of this entry on the credit file. So, I think the increased total 
compensation of £150 is a reasonable response here.
Overall, for the reasons Ive given, Virgin Money should correct Mr Bs credit file to show the 
account should have defaulted from July 2021 and pay the additional £50 compensation.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should correct Mr Bs credit file to show the 
account should have defaulted from July 2021 and pay the additional £50 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
should pay Mr B a further £50 in compensation and correct his credit file to show the account 
defaulting from July 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman