DRN-3072483
The complaint
Mr M complains that Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 acted irresponsibly when it gave
him a number of loans in relation to mobile phone handsets.
What happened
O2 provided Mr M with a fixed sum loan to fund the cost of a mobile phone in April 2017, 
followed by two more in August 2017 in respect of an additional handset as well as a tablet. 
All three devices were all upgraded to more expensive models, two in September 2017 and 
the last in November 2017. Mr M took a further three fixed sum loans to fund the purchases. 
Ive set out the loans Mr M was given below;
date total credit monthly payment duration 
(months)Date repaid in 
full
113/4/17 £432.00 £18.00 24 15/11/17
219/8/17 £480.00 £20.00 24 26/9/17
320/8/17 £288.00 £12.00 24 23/9/17
423/9/17 £768.00 £32.00 24 N/A
526/9/17 £696.00 £29.00 24 N/A
615/11/17 £768.00 £32.00 24 N/A
In addition to the loans above, O2 also provided Mr M airtime contracts. These were
unregulated agreements between Mr M and O2 through which he was provided various call,
text and data allowances to use with the handsets. From what O2 and Mr M has told us, I
understand that there were three associated airtime agreements, which were charged at
around £80 per month in total.
Mr M says that in November 2017 he was struggling to make payments to O2 and contacted
it to let it know he was experiencing financial difficulty. Mr M says O2 didnt help, but sold the
debt associated with his agreements to a debt recovery agency and recorded defaults on his
credit file.
As he didnt think hed been treated fairly, Mr M raised a complaint with O2. He told O2 that it
had allowed him to take out multiple agreements despite not being able to afford them. He
said that O2 had lent to him irresponsibly.
O2 said that as part of his application for the loans Mr M had been required to agree that he
was able to afford the repayments and wouldve been aware of the consequences of not
paying. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She found
that O2 had carried out an appropriate assessment of Ms Ms ability to afford the loans hed
been given. She also found that O2 had acted fairly in selling the associated debt when
Mr M wasnt able to meet the required payments, because O2 didnt have any evidence of
Mr M contacting it prior to him raising a complaint about the affordability of the loans.
Mr M disagreed. He said it was O2s responsibility to ensure he could meet the repayments
on the loans hed applied for and given adverse information on his credit file at the time, he
doubted that he wouldve passed O2s checks. He also said that hed told O2 about his
difficulty in meeting payments on a number of occasions and had asked for transcripts of the
conversations but hadnt received them.
Lastly, he suggested that hed been earning £1,300 per month and it wasnt fair for O2 to
give him multiple loans requiring payments of over £200 per month without asking him for
evidence of his outgoings. He maintained that O2 had not adequately assessed his ability to
meet the required repayments, so he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said;
In deciding whether O2 acted fairly by approving multiple loans for Mr M Ive taken into 
account relevant law, rules, regulations, guidance as well as what was considered good 
industry practice at the time. In this case Ive had particular regard for the requirements for 
lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
With that in mind, I think there are two questions I need to examine to decide on what a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be;
1. Did O2 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr M could 
not sustainably repay the borrowing.
2. Did O2 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Did O2 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
O2 was required to complete reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Ms ability to 
sustainably repay the loans it provided. Carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks 
does not look the same for every customer. But Id have expected O2 to take into account a 
number of factors including Mr Ms specific financial circumstances, the amount of credit, the 
total repayable, the duration of the agreement and the size of the regular payments, in 
determining what a reasonable and proportionate check would be.
Overall, Im not satisfied that O2 carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for any of
the loans. Ill explain why.
O2 says it carried out a credit check on Mr M. I havent seen the information which was
included in the credit checks O2 says it carried out, but Mr Ms given us a later copy of his
credit file. Whilst things may have moved on from the point at which Mr M applied for the
loans, I think the information on there is likely to be representative of the information O2
wouldve seen at the time. As Mr M has suggested, I agree his credit file showed indications
that he may have struggled to meet his financial commitments in the years leading up to his
applications with O2.
Mr Ms credit file shows that he had two defaulted accounts at the time of his first application
with O2, the most recent one having been recorded in December 2016 in relation to a
telecommunications account. The credit file also shows that for the period between April and
November 2017 Mr M was over his credit limit on two credit cards, both of which are
represented as being in a payment arrangement. It appears Mr M had two other credit cardaccounts which look to have been managed within their limits. Ive also seen that a third
default was recorded in relation to a mail order account, with a balance of around £1,000, on
19 October 2017, before O2 gave Mr M the last loan.
So, given Mr Ms recent history of difficulties repaying previous credit  including on a similar
agreement  Id have expected O2 at the very least to have asked Mr M basic questions
about his income and expenditure and obtained associated evidence for at least some of
this.
Given O2 didnt do this and instead appears to have mainly relied on the credit checks, Im
not satisfied  based on the evidence Ive been presented  that any of the checks O2
carried out were reasonable and proportionate because it seems to have known very little
about Mr Ms financial circumstances and ability to sustainably repay the borrowing.
O2 has told us that it carried out a credit check for the first three loans it provided Mr M,
which were automatically decided by its system. It said that it didnt consider it necessary for
the last three loans. It also said that it asked about Mr Ms employment status, income and
any reason he anticipated he wouldnt be able to meet the requirements. However, despite
our investigator asking for supporting evidence on a number of occasions, its not given any
evidence of the questions it asked Mr M, nor the answers he gave.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown
As O2 needed to find out more about Mr Ms income and expenditure, Ive gone on to think
about what it would more likely than not have found out had it done this. Mr M told us that in
April 2017 he was a student, but he was working as an intern and earning £16,000 per year
in a position which was due to come to an end in June 2017. Hes said that he was
subsequently in receipt of various benefit payments. Mr M hasnt given us a detailed
breakdown of his income and expenditure at the time, but he has said his income was
£1,300 per month.
As Ive mentioned above, Mr Ms credit file does show indications that he may have
struggled to meet his financial commitments in the months and even years leading up to the
applications he made with O2. That in itself isnt sufficient for me to conclude that O2 should
not have lent to him  lenders are entitled to use their discretion in determining the level of
risk theyre willing to take in providing lending to customers with adverse credit histories. But,
I wouldve expected this information to have prompted O2 into taking a closer look at Mr Ms
ability to make the requirement payments.
Ive had sight of Mr Ms current account statements for the period in question  April to
November 2017. Mr M provided some of them, so I assume that he believes theyre an
accurate a picture of his income and expenditure at the time. I wouldnt necessarily have
expected O2 to have requested to see Mr Ms bank statements. Nonetheless I think its a
reasonable indication of Mr Ms financial position in the absence of other evidence from
Mr M.
Overall, Im not satisfied that Mr Ms bank statements corroborate the financial position hes
presented. Below, Ive presented a table giving an overview of the approximate level of
credits made to Mr Ms account during the period in question;Month (2017) Amount credited 
April £2,500
May £2,500
June £600
July £800
August £4,300
September £4,600
October £4,200
November £2,500
I accept that the credits made to Mr Ms account during these months come from a variety of
sources, some which may not have been payments which would carry on indefinitely (such
as credits from student loan companies). However, I think its fair to say that at the point
Mr M applied for each of the loans with O2, the funds available to him, on average, was
significantly more than £1,300 per month.
From Mr Ms statements Ive been able to identify very few payments which Id consider
committed ongoing expenditure, such as costs associated with housing or rent, travel and
day to day living expenses, aside from an insurance product which Mr M seems to have paid
£90 per month towards, from August 2017. Thats not to say that I dont accept that Mr M
couldve incurred these costs on a monthly basis, but I havent seen evidence of those on
the statements or from Mr M.
That being said, I accept that Mr Ms credit file showed he had a number of financial
commitments in relation to credit cards; he appeared to have four accounts and the
associated combined balance of those accounts was around £1,700 for the period in
question. He also owed £950 in respect of defaulted accounts for the period in question.
Mr M hasnt told us what (if any) arrangements he had in place to repay the debts associated
with defaulted accounts, so I dont know what his financial commitments wouldve been in
respect of those. I also dont know what payments Mr M was required to make towards his
credit card debts, but in both cases, I find it unlikely he wouldve been required to repay
significant portions on a monthly basis. Based on the amount required to clear the balances
on Mr Ms credit cards within a reasonable period of time, I dont think Mr Ms commitments
towards these debts would have represented more than £2-300 per month.
Those commitments aside, it seems to me that the majority of the payments represented on
Mr Ms statements during this period were either discretionary spending, or cash transfers to
other accounts, which wouldnt usually be taken into account in affordability assessments.
Based on the evidence Ive been presented with so far, Im minded to conclude that Mr M
appears to have had a significant amount of disposable income during the period in
question, during all but two months  June and July. In summary, I think its fair to say that
credits to Mr Ms account averaged above £3,000 per month and he appears to have had
comparatively few committed ongoing expenses.
Before issuing this provisional decision I shared my initial impressions  along the lines of
the above  with Mr M, and I invited his comments. Mr M said that his income was artificially
high from August 2017 onwards as he received back payments of benefits after none were
received in June and July 2017. He also commented that another major source of his
income was from student loans, and the funds were intended to pay for rent, books and
tuition fees. I havent seen any evidence in relation to those costs, but even if I accept that
was the purpose for which Mr M was given those funds, I nonetheless think that the
evidence Ive been presented still shows that Mr M had a significant level of disposableincome.
Taking all of the above into account I now need to decide whether O2 likely wouldve found
the loans affordable if it had established an accurate picture of Mr Ms financial position and
ability to sustainably repay the loans. Ill address the loans broadly in the order they were
given.
The first loan Mr M was given was in April 2017, the monthly payment Mr M was required to
make was £18, as well as a payment of roughly £25 for the associated airtime contract. As
Ive mentioned above, taking into account Mr Ms financial position and apparent disposable
income whilst having regard for the monthly payment and overall level of credit, Im satisfied
that O2 likely wouldve found that this loan was affordable.
For a similar reason, I also think it wouldve reached the same conclusion for the second and
third loan, because it seems that Mr M had sufficient disposable income to be able to make
the required payments. Additionally, and significantly, all of the payments required under
those loans were made on time, and they were all ultimately all paid off in full (and early) by
Mr M. And I dont think that it wouldve been unreasonable for O2 to have also placed some
weight on the payment history on previous agreements when thinking about the affordability
of subsequent ones. So, overall, Im satisfied that the first three loans O2 gave Mr M were
affordable.
The last three loans Mr M was given represented more of a financial commitment. But for the
same reasons as Ive explained above, Ive not been persuaded (based on the information
Ive been presented) that Mr M didnt have sufficient disposable income to not be able to
sustainably repay the loans.
I expect that Mr M might dispute the provisional conclusion Ive reached about his financial
position during the relevant period. He may also point out that whilst his income during this
period was higher than it otherwise would be in the long term, and O2 had a responsibility to
assess his ability to sustainably repay the loans, which would go on for 24 months.
However, even if I were to accept what Mr Ms said about his financial circumstances; that
his long term monthly income was £1,300 and that his overall commitment to O2 by the time
the sixth loan was agreed to was in the region of £200 per month, I havent been presented
with evidence of Mr Ms other regular financial commitments which show they were
significant enough to mean that his commitment to O2 wouldve been unaffordable.
Lastly, I accept it appears that the financial circumstances presented on Mr Ms credit file
from April until October were fairly consistent, until he had a default applied on
19 October 2017, before the last loan was given by O2 on 15 November 2017. The default
appears to have been added by a debt collection agent in relation to a mail order account
started in 2015, and the default balance was £1,070. There isnt any record of the account
on Mr Ms credit file prior to the default appearing in October 2017, so I dont know how (or
whether) this wouldve been presented on Mr Ms credit file at the time of his last application.
I say whether because its not unusual for businesses to backdate a default to the date it
issued notice  if thats the case here, the default may not have been presented on the credit
file until after Mr M accepted the last loan from O2.
I accept that if this information had been available to O2 at the time of giving Mr M the last
loan, it might have been more of a concern requiring additional thought about whether a
further agreement was affordable. But, Im still not persuaded based on the evidence Ive
been provided, that Mr M didnt have the disposable income to be able to repay the
borrowing.In summary, and with reference to all of the loans O2 gave Mr M, Ive not been persuaded
that O2 wouldve found that any of the loans it gave Mr M were unaffordable on the basis
that he didnt have sufficient disposable income to sustainably repay the loans, even if it had
been given sight of all the evidence which Mr M has now presented to this service.
Did O2 treat Mr M unfairly in some other way
Im aware that Mr M says that he contacted O2 in November 2017 to tell it that he was
experiencing financial difficulty, but it didnt do anything to help. O2 said that it doesnt have
any record of Mr M having contacted it about the matter until he asked to raise a complaint
sometime later. I havent been presented with evidence from either party which
demonstrates that Mr M contacted O2 about his financial position in November 2017, so Im
not persuaded he did.
Under the relevant regulations O2 wouldve had a responsibility to treat Mr M with
forbearance and due consideration. That might have involved O2 asking Mr M for his details
of income and expenditure and accepting a reduced level of payments for a period. Its not
clear why Mr M was subsequently unable to meet the payments required of him under the
loans. But given the events which subsequently played out, even if O2 had reduced the
payments Mr M was required to make on a short term basis, I find it unlikely that Mr M
wouldve been able to make sufficient to prevent O2 from ultimately passing the debts to a
collection agent and recording defaults on his credit file.
Lastly, the credit file Mr M has provided doesnt show that O2 has recorded any defaults in
relation to the last three loans, but from what Mr M and O2 have said, it seems that Mr M
was significantly in arrears on those loans, so I dont think it was unreasonable for O2 to
have defaulted the accounts, if it has.
Neither Mr M nor O2 responded to my provisional decision. The case has therefore been 
passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further representations in response to my provisional decision 
by the deadline set. As a result, Ive not got any further evidence to review, and I find no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So, I now make 
those conclusions final. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman