DRN-2361533
The complaint
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited when he was involved in an 
accident. He says esure was wrong to decide to hold him fully at fault for it.  
What happened
Mr M recalls that he turned his car out of his driveway onto the main road, but he doesnt 
remember anything else until after the accident. The other driver says Mr Ms car 
approached his car on the wrong side of the main road and he was unable to avoid it. Both 
cars sustained severe damage and Mr M was seriously injured. 
esure noted that when its advisor first asked Mr M about the accident, he said he thought the 
other driver must have been speeding (based on where the other car came to rest after the 
accident). But esure said it wasnt possible to prove that was the case. Mr M also said when 
asked that he thought he had his lights on. There was no independent evidence about the 
accident and the police didnt charge either driver with any offence. esure said it didnt think 
it could defend a claim successfully in these circumstances. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He noted that the police hadnt 
charged the other driver with speeding. He thought it was reasonable for esure to make the 
decision it did, as the only testimony about what happened came from the other driver. He 
also noted that the damage to the cars wasnt examined by an accident investigator  or by 
esures engineer, as Mr M didnt make a claim. The investigator said esure had the right to 
settle the claim rather than defend it if it thought it wouldnt succeed in court. 
 
Mr Ms representative said some evidence hadnt been considered  such as the testimony 
from Mr Ms wife that his cars lights were on when he left their driveway. She felt the other 
cars location after the accident brought into question the other drivers claim that he wasnt 
speeding. She said as Mr M couldnt recall the incident, it was for esure to find other sources 
of reliable information, yet it hadnt asked the police to complete an accident investigation. In 
her view, if liability couldnt be proven, a 50:50 split would be fairer. Mr Ms representative 
also thought the wording of esures final response letter was insensitive.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, under the policy esure has the right to decide how 
to deal with any claim. We only intervene if we think an insurer has acted unreasonably, by 
not investigating a claim properly or by reaching a conclusion that isnt in line with the 
available evidence. 
In this case, it could have assisted Mr M had the police decided to carry out an accident 
investigation, although it isnt fair to assume what the outcome of that would have been.  
Had an investigation been done, the cars and the scene of the accident would have been 
fully assessed. But esure has no control over what resources, if any, the police chose to 
direct towards an accident. It cant require the police to carry out work. And I think its fair to 
assume that as the other driver wasnt charged with speeding, the police didnt think there 
was any evidence of it. In these circumstances, esure cant rely on speeding as a defence. 
Mr Ms representative thought it would have been useful had esure considered a statement 
from Mr Ms wife about his lights having been on when he left the driveway. I understand 
why she raised the issue, given that the other driver said they werent on, at least initially. 
But Im not sure how much that would have helped. Mr Ms wife isnt an independent 
witness, so her testimony wouldnt carry much weight. And even if Mr M could prove that his 
lights were on, the other driver would still testify that Mr M moved over to the wrong side of 
the road, when it was too late for him to avoid Mr Ms car. 
 
Mr M cant dispute the other drivers assertion about being on the wrong side of the road, as 
he has no recollection of what happened. So I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to 
decide that it couldnt argue for liability to be split equally. The other insurer would have had 
no reason to accept that proposal, when Mr M cant explain why he wasnt to blame, and the 
other driver insists that he was. The only other option would have been for esure to try to 
defend the claim in court. I can see why it didnt think that was a valid option, as Mr M had 
no version of events to provide.
 
The accident and the aftermath must have been very distressing indeed for Mr M. So I 
understand why he and his representative were upset by the words pleading ignorance 
about what had happened as set out by esure in its final response letter. I dont think esure 
was suggesting that Mr M had faked his amnesia, although I can see why he would have 
interpreted it in that way. In my opinion, esure was trying to get across that unless theres an 
alternative account to consider, a court is likely to find in favour of a party who is able to give 
specific details about an incident. I agree that the wording esure used was insensitive, but I 
dont think it had any effect on the outcome of the claim. 
Theres no doubt that Mr M has been through a very significant ordeal. It can only have been 
made worse by being held wholly at fault for the accident, so I have a great deal of sympathy 
for him. But I dont think Mr M has been able to show that esure acted unreasonably in 
settling the claim as it did, which means I cant uphold his complaint.   
         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman