DRN-3721522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that GE Money Home Finance Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
declined their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2003 Mr and Mrs S purchased a joint timeshare membership from a timeshare provider 
(Business A). The membership cost £11,249 and Mr and Mrs S took out a joint loan with 
First National Bank plc (a GE Money company) to pay the full purchase price.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S contacted GE Money via a professional representative to raise a claim 
under the CCA because GE Money provided the credit for them to buy the timeshare. In 
summary, they said Business A mis-sold them the timeshare and GE Money were jointly 
liable for their failures. They said the timeshare was misrepresented for a number of 
reasons, they were subjected to high pressure and aggressive sales tactics, and they 
werent told about maintenance fees or commission. They also said the business didnt carry 
out any affordability checks for the loan.
In response, GE Money said that any like claim Mr and Mrs S may have against them for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract under section 75 of the CCA would be time-barred 
under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) because they brought their claim outside of the relevant 
six year time limit. They also said that section 140A of the CCA didnt apply to Mr and Mrs S 
credit agreement because it was repaid before 6 April 2008, so they couldnt make a claim 
under this section. Further, they said that any other claims against them would also be time-
barred under the LA.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy that their claims hadnt been upheld and so brought a complaint 
to our service via their representative. One of our investigators looked into their complaint. 
Overall, he concluded Mr and Mrs S made their section 75 claim outside of the relevant time 
limits under the LA, and he didnt think those time limits would be extended in the 
circumstances. The investigator also didnt think section 140A applied in this case, based on 
the start and end dates of the loan. And he didnt think our service had jurisdiction to 
consider any complaint about whether the loan was affordable. So, overall, he didnt think 
GE Money acted unfairly by turning down Mr and Mrs S claims. He also noted that 
GE Money offered Mr and Mrs S a total of £100 compensation in their final response letter 
for some customer service issues, which he thought was fair.
Mr S responded to say they were disappointed with the investigators view and wanted to 
continue with their complaint. He said that their concerns and attempts to exit their timeshare 
and subsequently claim from GE Money date back as far as April 2014 or possibly further.
They said they took on a professional representative in 2017 (although they are no longer 
representing them) and that theyve lost thousands of pounds trying to exit their timeshare 
via fraudulent companies.
Mr S also believes that a recent amendment to section 140 by the UK government means 
that their claim is still valid because their contract was signed in the UK. So, in summary, he 
said they rejected the investigators findings and wished to pursue the claim further for total 
reimbursement on the grounds of mis-selling and non-compliance for buyer protection on the 
part of GE Money.
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about Mr and Mrs S complaint. In my provisional findings, I 
explained the following:
Mr and Mrs S complaint about GE Moneys response to their section 75 claim doesnt 
fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service because GE Money 
wasnt authorised by the FCA at the relevant time, so I cannot consider it.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs S were able to make a claim under section 140A of the CCA 
because their loan agreement with GE Money ended before 6 April 2008, which means 
section 140A doesnt apply. So, I didnt think GE Money did anything wrong by refusing 
to consider it.
I also didnt think our service could consider their complaint about the affordability of the 
loan because it wasnt an activity covered by our jurisdiction at the time of sale in 2003.
If Mr and Mrs S wish to accept GE Moneys offer of £100 compensation for the delays in 
responding to their complaint, they can contact GE Money directly.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence they wished me to consider before I reached a final decision. GE Money 
responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs S didnt respond. 
As the deadline I set for responses to my provisional findings expired without any further 
contact from the parties, the complaint was referred back to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that and given neither Mr and Mrs S nor GE Money have provided any further 
comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. This 
means I still dont think GE Money acted unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs S claims for 
the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision, which Ive explained again below. 
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Section 75 of the CCA says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As I explained in my provisional decision, this means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and 
Mrs S paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor (GE Money in this case) can also be held responsible.Mr and Mrs S said that Business A misrepresented a number of points in relation to the 
timeshare agreement they purchased. So, they said GE Money was jointly liable for the 
misrepresentations under section 75 of the CCA.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I first have to ensure I have the jurisdiction to 
consider the event Mr and Mrs S are complaining about. The Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt free to deal with every complaint it receives. Its bound by rules that set out the types of 
complaints it can look at. Those rules are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
DISP 2 sets out the Financial Ombudsman Services two jurisdictions: our compulsory 
jurisdiction and our voluntary jurisdiction. DISP 2.1.1 (1) (a) says our compulsory jurisdiction 
covers: certain complaints against firms (and businesses which were firms at the time of the 
events complained about). And a firm was a business authorised by the FCA to undertake 
certain financial services work. This means I first need to determine whether GE Money was 
authorised by the FCA at the time of the event being complained about.
In this case, the original lender was First National Bank Plc, which then became part of 
GE Money Home Finance Limited. And GE Money Home Finance Limited resigned from the 
FCAs authorisation on 31 March 2016.
Although Mr and Mrs S may have a misrepresentation claim against the timeshare supplier, 
which they could also then hold GE Money responsible for under section 75 of the CCA (as 
explained above), this doesnt automatically mean they have a complaint against GE Money. 
The actual event being complained about in this case is GE Moneys response, or lack of 
response, to their section 75 claim. In particular, Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that GE Money 
didnt uphold their claim and reimburse them for the cost of the timeshare.
Based on the available evidence, Mr and Mrs S raised a section 75 claim with GE Money via 
their representative at the time in June 2018. And, due to an administrative error, GE Money 
didnt issue their response until 18 January 2022, which was after GE Money resigned from 
the FCAs authorisation.
Even if I were to take the earliest date GE Money could have responded to Mr and Mrs S 
section 75 claim, this would still be in 2018. And, as GE Money Home Finance Limited 
resigned from the FCAs authorisation in 2016, this would still mean GE Money wasnt an 
authorised firm at the time of the event being complained about. And Mr and Mrs S havent 
provided any supporting evidence to show they complained to GE Money any sooner than 
this. This means Mr and Mrs S complaint doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so I cannot consider GE Moneys response, or lack of response, to 
their section 75 claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Under this section of the CCA, a court may make an order under section 140B in connection 
with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination, but I think it is relevant law, which I can take into account, if applicable.
In his view, the investigator explained that Mr and Mrs S werent able to bring a claim under 
section 140A because they repaid their loan before 6 April 2008, which means that section 
140A didnt apply. I considered this point and reached the same conclusion. Ill explain why.
Section 140A of the CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of 
that Act sets out to what credit agreements section 140A of the CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement was entered into prior to 6 April 2007 and completed before 6 April 2008, 
no claim under section 140A of the CCA could be brought in respect of that credit 
agreement.
GE Money provided evidence to show Mr and Mrs S loan agreement ended on 3 February 
2005. This means their credit agreement completed and their relationship with GE Money in 
connection to the related timeshare agreement ended on that date. So, in line with 
Schedule 3 of the Consumer Credit Act 2006, I still dont think they are able to make a claim 
under section 140A in respect of their credit agreement because it ended before 6 April 
2008. This means I also still dont think GE Money did anything wrong in refusing to consider 
a claim under section 140A and I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs S complaint about the affordability of the loan
Mr and Mrs S said GE Money didnt carry out any affordability checks when they took out the 
loan in August 2003. However, as our investigator explained, this isnt something our service 
can look into. 
Under our DISP rules, the activity being complained about also has to be something that 
was covered by our jurisdiction at the time of the event. Here, Mr and Mrs S are complaining 
about GE Moneys decision to provide them with a point of sale loan (also known as 
restricted credit) to purchase the timeshare, without (they say) properly assessing whether 
it was affordable for them. Providing restricted credit wasnt an activity that was regulated by 
the FCA in 2003. This means it was also not covered by our compulsory jurisdiction at that 
time, and so isnt something I can consider.
Customer service
GE Money offered Mr and Mrs S a total of £100 compensation for the delays in responding 
to their letter of claim and for failing to respond to a subject access request in time, which the 
investigator felt was fair. However, Mr and Mrs S didnt raise this as part of the complaint 
when referring their concerns to us. So, Im not commenting on this further in this decision, 
other than to say if Mr and Mrs S wish to accept this offer, they can still contact GE Money 
directly.
Conclusion
Overall, I cannot consider Mr and Mrs S complaint about their section 75 claim, or the 
affordability of the loan for the reasons Ive explained. I appreciate my decision will come as 
a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but our jurisdiction is not discretionary, and I cannot 
disregard the DISP rules. 
I also dont think Mr and Mrs S have a valid claim under section 140A of the CCA because 
that section doesnt apply to credit agreements that were taken out prior to 6 April 2007 and 
repaid prior to 6 April 2008, as is the case here. So, I dont think GE Money acted unfairly by 
refusing to consider their section 140A claim. This means I dont think GE Money needs to 
do anything further in response to Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint in relation to their 
section 140A claim, and I cannot consider their complaint in relation to their section 75 claim 
or GE Moneys decision to lend to them in August 2003.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman