DRN-3701227
The complaint
Ms S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt reimbursed her the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator concluded that Santander hadnt met its obligations under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code as she said it failed to provide an effective warning at 
the time of the transaction. She said it wasnt specific to Ms Ss circumstances. In response, 
Santander made an offer of 50% of the £17,000 loss, plus 8% simple interest from the date 
of decline. 
As Santander has accepted it didnt meet its obligations, I dont consider the need to address 
this further.
Ive next thought about whether Ms S had a reasonable basis of belief that the payment she 
was making was legitimate. She received a call supposedly from a well-known company  
and the caller was able to provide her name, though seemingly not much beyond this. And 
this wasnt a company that Ms S had an existing relationship with. 
Ms S was given an account number to transfer the funds to but was asked to use the name 
of one of her own relatives as the payee  but one that she hadnt paid before. Especially 
with the lack of existing relationship with the company being impersonated, I cant see that 
there would be a plausible explanation for sending such a large amount of money to an 
unknown account number. And I say this particularly as I think it would have been clear that 
this wasnt actually going to Ms Ss relative. 
I also note that Ms S was asked to mislead Santander with the reason for the payment. 
There was the suggestion from the scammer that this was an inside job involving the bank. 
But, as our investigator has said, this appears inconsistent with needing to make the 
payment over the phone. And Id question why Ms S would trust a company she doesnt 
know over a bank she uses. So, overall, I dont consider there to have been a reasonable 
basis of belief on Ms Ss part. 
Once made aware of the scam, I consider Santander to have acted reasonably in terms of 
its attempts to recover the funds  although I note that only around £70 was recovered. 
Im really sorry that Ms S has fallen victim to such a cruel scam, and I do appreciate that she 
was manipulated by a sophisticated scammer over the course of around three and a half 
hours. But overall, and in line with the CRM code, I think it would be fair for both parties to 
share the loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to:
- Refund 50% of the loss, taking into account the amount that has already been 
recovered
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of the loss to the date 
of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman