DRN-3992706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim they made on their 
contents insurance policy following a burglary.
Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a home insurance policy with AXA which provided cover for their contents 
in the event of a theft. After their home was broken into and a number of items were stolen, 
they made a claim to AXA for their loss.
Mr and Mrs H complained about how this claim was settled. They were unhappy AXA didnt 
pay for a gold belt chain worth roughly £4,000. And they were unhappy with the time AXA 
took to make payment on the items it did pay out on and the service provided throughout.
AXA said it wasnt settling the claim for the gold belt chain because it wasnt added to the 
claim until roughly two years after the burglary. It said because of this it couldnt be sure it 
was stolen during that break in. It did acknowledge it took too long to settle the claim for 
other items though and it offered Mr and Mrs H £225 compensation.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this. They said they did report the gold belt chain at the time of 
the theft to both the policy and AXA. And they said there were health reasons explaining why 
it wasnt mentioned again until roughly two years later.
But AXA didnt change its stance, so Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to us.
Initially, one of our investigators recommended it be upheld and thought AXA should pay for 
the gold belt chain. He thought on the balance of probabilities it was reported to the police at 
the time. And he didnt think AXA had shown it wasnt reported to it. But AXA provided the 
original list of items reported to be stolen  and the gold belt chain wasnt on it. So, our 
investigator thought that on balance, it wasnt reported at the time, and so AXAs decline of 
the claim was fair. He did think AXA needed to increase its compensation to £350.
AXA agreed with our investigators findings. But Mr and Mrs H didnt. Theyre adamant they 
reported the gold belt chain at the time of the theft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it in part. In summary I agree AXAs decision to decline the 
claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  so Im not requiring it to pay for the gold 
belt chain. But I agree with the increased amount of compensation our investigator 
recommended. I understand this wont be the answer Mr and Mrs H were hoping for. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Its a general principle of insurance that the first burden of proof lies with the insured. 
So it is for Mr and Mrs H to show, that on balance, theyve suffered a loss, as 
described, thats covered by their policy. If they can do this, the burden passes to the 
insurer, in this case AXA. The insurer then needs to settle the claim, or evidence why 
it doesnt need to  by rely on exclusions/conditions/endorsements in the policy.
In this case, what in dispute is whether Mr and Mrs H have done enough to show that 
the gold belt chain was stolen in the burglary. They say it was, and they say they 
reported this to the police and AXA at the time. AXA say the first they heard about 
this gold chain was some two years after the event.
So, in essence, what I need to decide is whether or not the gold belt chain was 
reported to AXA at the time. If it was, then Mr and Mrs H would have done enough to 
pass their burden. If it wasnt, then I think AXA decision to decline the claim would be 
reasonable.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling on this matter but based on the 
evidence provided. Im not persuaded it was reported to AXA at the time of the 
burglary. Ive seen the initial list of items reported stolen, and the gold belt chain isnt 
on there. A chain is noted on there, but this chain is said to be inherited, whereas the 
chain in question was purchased. So, Im satisfied its not the same chain.
The police report does mention 8/12 ounce of gold chains earrings and bracelets -
£4000  And while the amount corresponds with the claimed value of the chain, I 
think this more likely refers to the remaining stolen jewellery and its combined value.
I appreciate there are valid reasons why the gold belt chain wasnt reported again 
until later, but Im satisfied the most important evidence is what was reported at the 
time. The gold chain is a high value item  higher than any item on the list. So, while I 
appreciate its possible to miss certain items in the aftermath of a stressful 
experience like a break in, I think it reasonable to have reported this high value item 
to AXA.
So, for the reasons above, I think AXA are acting reasonably when saying it cant be 
sure the gold chain was stolen in the same theft, and so feel Mr and Mrs H havent 
passed their burden of proof for this item. Therefore, Im satisfied AXA need not pay 
for this item.
Like our investigator, I agree £350 in total is a reasonable amount of compensation 
for the service provided throughout the claim and the delays AXA was responsible 
for. AXA is entitled to conduct investigations into any claim, but its acknowledged its 
actions were at times unnecessary and that this would have caused unnecessary 
distress to Mr and Mrs H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs H an additional £125 compensation, taking the total to £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 Joe Thornley
Ombudsman