DRN-4413161
The complaint
Mr M has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, did little to intervene and stop 
payments he was making which turned out to be an investment scam.
What happened
In both early 2020 and mid-2022 Mr M was concerned about his finances and was looking to 
invest his savings and income from his business. 
In 2020 he found a commodity and forex trading company which he believed, after his own 
research, to be genuine. In February 2020, Halifax intervened as Mr M tried to make a 
payment for £25,000 to an overseas company. A couple of days later Mr M made the first of 
five payments within a few days to an account held with a company Ill call P.
Mr M subsequently told the person hed been setting this arrangement up with that he was 
unable to make any further payments, despite being told he was missing out on great 
opportunities. Mr M was shaken to also be told a little while after that his account was in 
arrears after trading and hed be liable for the losses.
A couple of years later, Mr M got in touch with another company involved in trading. He 
agreed to make further payments to his account with P. Over just under a month, Mr M spent 
more than £15,000 whilst also receiving a small amount which he was told were the results 
of his investment.
Mr M later realised this had been a scam and asked Halifax to refund him. Halifax wouldnt 
agree to do so as they believed theyd alerted Mr M to the dangers of unknown investment in 
their discussions in February 2020.
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence including the calls between Halifax and Mr M. She felt overall that Halifax should 
have intervened in February 2020 after Mr M made his first payment to P for £15,000. 
However she felt Mr M should be liable for half of his losses. She wasnt going to ask Halifax 
to do anything about the later investments in mid-2022.
Mr M accepted this outcome. Halifax didnt. They believed theyd acted in a suitable manner 
and there was nothing further that suggested Mr Ms transactions to P in February 2020 
should have been blocked.
An ombudsman has been requested to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
I dont dispute Mr M was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of money from his 
income and savings. He has my sympathy about what he has gone through.
Theres no dispute that Mr M made and authorised all of the payments. Mr M believed he 
was loading up his account with P enabling trading to be carried out. 
Im satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
Its generally accepted that Halifax has an obligation to follow Mr Ms instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr M is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Halifax 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr M fell victim to an investment scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual but 
are invidious in the way those carrying out the scam inveigle themselves into someones 
trust. 
In coming to my decision Ive also noted our investigators detailed view and additional 
responses provided to Halifax. I see no need to repeat those aspects that arent disputed. So 
specifically I wont be covering the second investment scam in May and June 2022 in detail 
although all parties can be reassured Ive reviewed what happened.
It is clear from the detailed testimony Ive seen from Mr M that he firmly believed he was 
making genuine investments. Hes also adamant he carried out due diligence. 
Ive noted the conversations Mr M had with Halifax in February 2020.
Halifax specifically blocked the overseas payment Mr M was trying to make on 5 February. 
During that conversation Mr M confirmed he was dealing with a cryptocurrency investment 
company and that hed downloaded software which allowed the scammers to access his 
laptop.
I appreciate Halifax believed following this and the warning they gave Mr M that they had no 
further need to intervene. They also believe Mr M has a history of investment. Ive reviewed 
Mr Ms account statements with Halifax and can see this is the case. However I dont agree 
with Halifax and believe they should have taken further steps when Mr M made his payment of £15,000 to P.
I say this because:
Halifax should have been alert to any further investment activity carried out by Mr M 
as hed admitted hed downloaded software which allowed a third party to access his 
laptop. At that stage, I dont believe they could be satisfied Mr M had authorised the 
transactions.
The use of P for investment is known as being used by fraudsters masquerading as 
genuine investment opportunities.
No further warnings were provided to Mr M at this time.
Mr M authorised transactions totalling £33.600 taking his account overdrawn over a 
very short period of time.
I cant be sure that if Halifax had intervened, Mr M would have listened to their warnings, but 
Ive seen nothing which would indicate that he wouldnt.
Like our investigator, Im going to be asking Halifax to pay half of Mr Ms losses. I say this 
because:
Im not convinced Mr M did carry out suitable research into the company he was 
trading with.
Unfortunately just because something is ranked highly within search engines 
wouldnt indicate them being genuine. Mr M is a director of a limited company and Id 
have expected him to be aware of this.
Hed been warned by the fraudsters that banks didnt like cryptocurrency transactions 
so took steps to try and disguise what he was doing.
Hed also received warnings from Halifax after the initial blocked payment.
When looking at what happened two years later, I agree that Halifax need to take no further 
action. Its clear that Mr M was willing to lie to Halifax when they attempted to intervene.
Putting things right
Halifax will need to pay half of Mr Ms initial losses. This amounts to £16,800. 8% simple 
interest a year will also need to be added to this amount from the date of Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Refund £16,800 to Mr M; and
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of Mr Ms losses to the date of 
settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman