DRN-2849817
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim made under 
his vehicle breakdown policy.  
What happened
Mr Bs vehicle broke down whilst on holiday abroad with his family, driving to his holiday 
destination. He contacted IPA for help under his policy.
IPA arranged for Mr Bs vehicle to be towed. It tried to arrange a hire vehicle and overnight 
accommodation, but without success. Mr B made his own hotel arrangements and the next 
day was able to organise a hire vehicle. He was also able to find a garage that could repair 
his vehicle much quicker than IPAs could.
Mr B was able to continue the holiday after this and arrived at his destination a day later than 
planned. He was unhappy about the way IPA had handled his claim. In summary, he said 
there had been delays and poor communication  and hed had to make most of the 
arrangements himself when IPA was unable to. It had also meant a much longer and more 
tiring journey the second day. That had an impact on the rest of the holiday, and I 
understand the experience has stayed with his young family for much longer than that.
IPA accepted it should have dealt with things better and apologised for the service it 
provided. It paid Mr B £250 compensation.
Our investigator said IPA should increase the amount of compensation. He thought £600 
was a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mr B had experienced. IPA agreed 
with this. Mr B was pleased that the stress and anxiety he and his family suffered had been 
recognised. But he thought fair compensation would be over £1,000.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says hes been reimbursed for all his hire vehicle, accommodation and taxi costs. So I 
understand his financial loss has been met by IPA. In summary, hes complained because 
he doesnt think IPAs compensation offer, or the amount suggested by our investigator, 
goes far enough to put right the distress and inconvenience he and his family suffered.
Mr B has set out a clear and thorough timeline of events and pointed out how he thinks IPA 
let him down. IPA hasnt challenged any of the points hes made. Its accepted it caused 
avoidable distress and inconvenience in the ways Mr B has described.
Because the circumstances of the complaint arent in dispute, I wont set out everything that 
happened. Ive considered it all but Ill summarise some of the key points Mr B has made:
Mr B reported the breakdown at 9.30am but the tow truck didnt arrive until after 2pm. 
Hed broken down in a remote location on a very hot day, making the wait even more 
distressing and uncomfortable.
Despite Mr B telling IPA his family was made up of four people when he reported the 
breakdown, the tow truck only had two passenger seats. As a result, his young 
children didnt have a seat, or seat belts, putting them at risk.
IPA said it could arrange a hire vehicle  but only to his overnight accommodation 
and he couldnt keep it overnight. This would mean driving his family to the 
accommodation in the hire vehicle, driving it back to the depot, getting a taxi back to 
the accommodation  and probably carrying out the same steps in reverse order the 
next day. Although IPA couldnt confirm it would fund a hire vehicle the next day.
Mr B and his family spent most of the afternoon and evening at the tow truck depot 
waiting for IPA to arrange the hire vehicle and a hotel. After having spent all morning 
at the roadside waiting for the tow truck.
Ultimately IPA was unable to locate a hire vehicle  despite sending Mr B to another 
location to pick one up late in the evening only to find none were available there. The 
next morning Mr B made his own enquiries and found a company within walking 
distance that had a suitable vehicle and arranged the hire himself.
IPA was also unable to find accommodation. Again, Mr B made his own enquiries 
and found a nearby hotel.
IPA said it would take at least three weeks to repair his vehicle  but his holiday was 
for two. Once again Mr B looked into things himself and found a garage that could 
repair it in two weeks, allowing him to collect it on his way home.
IPA suggested Mr B may have to cancel the holiday and return home, given the 
problems it had finding a hire vehicle and hotel. This presented a number of concerns 
and practical challenges  such as how to return abroad to collect the vehicle.
The original plan had been for Mr B to drive to his holiday destination over both days, 
including an overnight stop along the way to break up the long journey. Because of 
the delays finding a hire vehicle, the entire journey had to been done on the second 
day alone. With one stressful day, a poor nights sleep wondering what might 
happen, and a long day of driving the next day, the family arrived at their destination 
exhausted. The impact of this continued over the following days.
At numerous times Mr B had to chase IPA for updates and information and wasnt 
always able to reach them, leaving him unsure what was happening.
Mr B and his family would inevitably have encountered a degree of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the breakdown. Even if things had gone as they ought to, there 
would likely have been some disruption to their holiday. There would have been some 
waiting time for the tow truck, and it would have taken some time to organise a hire vehicle. I 
cant hold IPA responsible for this.
But where IPA has unnecessarily added to the inevitable trouble caused by the breakdown, I 
think it should pay compensation proportionate to the impact thats had on Mr B.I know Mr Bs particularly concerned about the risk to his young children of being driven in 
the tow truck without seat belts. Thats understandable. But I can only consider the distress 
that he did suffer  not the distress that he might have suffered had things been worse. 
However, the distress he did suffer includes the concern he would have had for his childrens 
safety during that journey.
Ive thought about the points Mr Bs made. Whilst its difficult to estimate exactly how long 
things should have taken, I think its likely Mr B would have been able to continue his journey 
later the same day  and reached his overnight accommodation  had IPA dealt with things 
fairly. Because of the delays with the tow truck, arranging a hire vehicle and a hotel, its clear 
IPA caused considerable inconvenience and disruption. Other examples given above 
exacerbated that by adding worry to the delays. Whilst most of that impact was limited to two 
days, Im persuaded it was significantly distressing during that time.
I dont think IPAs initial offer of £250 went far enough to put things right. Im satisfied a total 
of £600 is fair and proportionate in the circumstances. If IPA has already paid £250, it should 
pay an additional £350.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay a total of £600 
compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman