DRN-3698390
The complaint
Mr A complains CETA Insurance Limited didnt make it clear he would be entering into a 
credit agreement when choosing to pay for a landlord insurance policy on a monthly basis. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should 
not be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Mr A took the policy out online and on a non-advised basis. This means CETA only 
had to provide information about the policy and any payment arrangements. It would 
have been for Mr A to read and understand that information, and to make a decision 
about whether it suited his needs. 
Ive seen the quotation journey that Mr A went through, and Im satisfied he was 
given options about different ways to pay for the policy. When selecting to pay 
monthly he would have been provided with information about the monthly payment, 
the amount of interest being charged and the APR rate. 
When providing payment details Mr A would have also needed to have ticked to 
confirm he had considered whether the policy premium was affordable to him should 
his circumstances change. Additionally, that page confirmed Mr As details would be 
passed to the credit provider as an application for credit. It also mentions in 
assessing the application the credit provider may search information held by credit 
reference agencies. 
The terms of business document, which was also made available to Mr A to read, 
explains that paying monthly by direct debit would incur an interest charge and an 
administration fee, in addition to a monthly premium payment. It also explains the 
individual would be required to enter a credit agreement. And, that information will be 
shared with the credit provider and that the credit provider may do checks including 
credit worthiness and affordability. 
Im therefore satisfied Mr A was provided with sufficient information about the credit 
arrangement and any checks that would be made prior to choosing to purchase the 
policy and confirming he wished to pay for the policy on a monthly basis. 
Any issue Mr A has with the credit search being conducted and any charges relating 
to the administration of, or provision of credit, would need to be taken up with the 
credit provider.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against CETA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman