DRN-1602528
Complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) changed some of his bank account benefits and 
experienced difficulty contacting the bank by telephone. 
Background
Mr B has a Platinum account with TSB. He received a letter from TSB telling him changes 
were being made to the account benefits, including card protection insurance being 
removed, mobile phone excess insurance had increased and the monthly account fee was 
being increased. Mr B then made several attempts to telephone TSB to complain about the 
changes to his account, but he was kept on hold for long periods of time. 
TSB say that they have apologised to Mr B about the length of time he had to wait on the 
telephone and as a gesture of goodwill offered Mr B £12 to cover the cost of his phone calls. 
TSB say they have done nothing wrong in amending the benefits on the account and gave 
written notice to Mr B of the changes. TSB say they gave Mr B the opportunity to move to a 
different type of account. TSB explained that Mr Bs account is on an account fee waiver, so 
he doesnt pay anything for the account benefits.  
Mr B was unhappy with TSBs response and says he was unable to speak to a manager at 
TSB about this. Mr B then referred the matter to this service.
The investigator obtained the information needed to consider the complaint but didnt uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. She felt that TSB had acted fairly in awarding a goodwill payment and it 
was entitled to amend the benefits of the account, under its terms and conditions. Mr B has 
made further representations to the investigator but she felt nothing new was offered that 
changed her view. Mr B asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain the reasons for my 
decision.
When considering Mr Bs complaint I have looked at whether TSB had acted unfairly in 
changing some of the benefits on his account and if they could have done more when he 
tried to contact them by telephone. 
When looking at the benefits on the account, TSB gave notice in writing to Mr B explaining 
the changes being made and this meets with the account terms and conditions  under 
section 10 changes to your terms and conditions, it explains that TSB can make changes 
to the account for various reasons including account charges and benefits packages.
It is not for me to tell TSB what those benefits should consist of but to see it gave reasonable 
notice when doing so  this is what happened here. Mr B was also given the option to 
change to a different type of account and of course Mr B is entitled to move his account to 
another provider if he wishes. It is worth pointing out that Mr B doesnt pay any account fees 
on his account with TSB so I am satisfied he hasnt been financially disadvantaged here.
Looking at Mr Bs complaint about the long waiting time on the telephone, I can understand 
that it must have been frustrating for Mr B to have been kept waiting for long periods when 
trying to get through to an advisor. While I havent seen any evidence of this, I am satisfied, 
in all probability, this was the case here. That said, TSB cant control the number of incoming 
calls at any point of time during the day and I dont feel I can penalise them for that. Mr B 
was offered a goodwill gesture of £12 to cover the calls he made and I feel that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
All of us experience some level of inconvenience in our day to day lives but that doesnt 
mean every situation will warrant compensation. I dont think it does here.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, but it follows that I wont be asking 
anymore of TSB here. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman