DRN-1983623
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank PLC provided an inconsistent text alert service, and 
poor customer service.    
What happened
In late 2019 and early 2020, Ms H made several complaints to Barclays about the text alerts 
she had set up on her account.  
 
Ms H said Barclays failed to send her consistent weekly text alerts and low balance alerts for 
her account. So, she said payments were declined, causing her embarrassment and 
inconvenience.  
Ms H said she was receiving weekly text alerts on a Friday, and not on a Wednesday as 
requested. And shed received poor customer service when visiting local branches and when 
dealing with Barclays over the phone.  Further, Ms H said shed not received a call-back 
from Barclays when promised.  
 
Barclays acknowledged there had been issues with the text alert service during the latter 
part of 2019. They paid £50 compensation in recognition of the issues Ms H had 
experienced when not receiving weekly text alerts and £20 to cover the cost of calls. And 
said they would provide feedback to the area manager of the branches where Ms H said 
shed received poor customer service.  
 
Further, Barclays acknowledged Ms H hadnt received a call when promised, paying Ms H 
an additional £50, to compensate her for the trouble and upset this had caused. 
 
In January 2020, Ms H asked for her complaint to be reopened. Ms H said she still wasnt 
receiving consistent text alerts, which led to her card being declined.  
 
In a further response, Barclays said the text alerts were not designed to manage Ms Hs 
account and that there had been no further incidents where text alerts werent sent to Ms H.
 
Ms H didnt agree with Barclays and brought her complaint to our service. She said shed 
continued to have problems with the text alert service provided by Barclays. And that shed 
experienced poor customer service when she attempted to contact Barclays again to resolve 
the matter.  
  
The investigator noted the text alert service wasnt designed to manage accounts, but to give 
notifications. And that Barclays provided other services to help customers manage their 
accounts. Additionally, our investigator thought that Barclays had responded fairly to Ms Hs 
customer service concerns and that overall, the compensation paid sufficiently reflected the 
trouble and upset caused.
 
Ms H disagreed with the investigators view, so her complaints come to me for a final 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why.  
I recognise that Ms H has strong feelings about the matters shes raised. And while my 
decision concentrates on the key aspects of Ms Hs complaint, I want to assure her Ive 
considered everything carefully when coming to my decision. My role is to identify and 
comment on what I consider to be the central issues. So, if I dont mention any particular 
point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen or thought about it. Rather, I dont 
think it necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Ms H wont take this as a 
discourtesy. Its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.   
  
Text alerts  
  
I can see from the alert registration form provided by Barclays that Ms S requested weekly 
account balance alerts were sent on a set day. Ms H also requested an alert was sent if her 
account balance fell below £50.
As I understand it, Barclays send one low balance alert when an account balance falls below 
the threshold set on the account. In this case £50. But Barclays wouldnt alert the customer 
again if the balance continues to decrease. When the customer brings the balance back 
above the alert threshold, the low balance alert re-sets, so Barclays would send a further 
alert should the balance fall below the threshold again. 
 
To make my decision, Ive considered an SMS text data log produced by Barclays. This 
shows the text message alerts sent to Ms Hs phone between October 2019, and March 
2020. Ive also considered Ms Hs bank statements for the same period. 
  
I can see that Barclays sent a weekly alert to Ms Hs phone every week between 2 October 
and 20 November 2019. And again, between 13 December 2019 and the end of March 
2020.  
  
Barclays said there was a known issue with their text alert system. This meant some 
customers may not have received weekly alerts between 20 November and 6 December 
2019. So, this would account for the time Ms H didnt receive her weekly alerts.
  
But the SMS text log shows low balance alerts continued to be sent to Ms H between 20 
November and 6 December 2019  the time of the system error. Alerts were also sent when 
there wasnt enough in Ms Hs account to make a payment that was due. This was an 
additional measure applied to Ms Hs account after shed complained previously. 
While the lack of weekly alerts might have caused Ms H some inconvenience, Im satisfied 
Ms H still received text alerts about activity on the account, including the account balance.  
 
I appreciate Ms H has said she doesnt want to use online or telephone banking. But Im 
aware there were other ways of finding out her balance, including visiting branch. Ultimately, 
its Ms H whos responsible for managing her account and ensuring funds are available to 
fulfil commitments such as direct debits and spending.  Lastly, I can see Barclays de-registered and re-registered Ms Hs account for text alerts in an 
attempt to resolve the issues Ms H was having. This meant making a change to the day of 
the text alerts.  
 
I understand Barclays has offered to change the day Ms H receives weekly text alerts  but 
Ms H turned down this offer. Should Ms H remain unhappy with the day she gets the weekly 
text alert, she has the option to contact Barclays to arrange for this to be changed to a day 
she finds convenient.   
  
Aside from the missed text alerts due to Barclays system error, Ms H received the other 
scheduled text alerts as Id have expected. So Im satisfied Ms H wasnt prevented from 
managing her account. And I think Barclays acted reasonably by resolving this part of Ms 
Hs complaint in the way they did.
  
Customer service
I can see Barclays acknowledged that Ms H didnt receive a call when promised. And I can 
understand Ms Hs frustration about this.  But Im satisfied that the level of compensation 
received in recognition of the error, fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused.
  
Ms H raised two issues about the level of customer service she received while visiting local 
branches of Barclays. Ms H said that on one occasion shed waited in a queue while a 
member of staff engaged in a lengthy conversation with another customer. And on another 
occasion Ms H said a member of staff sniggered when she inquired about how long shed 
have to wait.
 
I appreciate that Ms H was distressed by these experiences. Shed had to wait longer than 
she had expected. And Im aware Ms H has suffered ill-health. I think Barclays has 
recognised Ms Hs feelings about the incidents and responded reasonably and sufficiently by 
providing feedback to the staff involved.
Ms H has also complained about staff conduct during calls. For example, Ms H was unhappy 
about a call where she wanted an update about her concerns. Ms H said she heard a staff 
member shout to the call handler that she wasnt going to do anything with Ms Hs complaint, 
and she questioned the call handler as to what was said. 
Having listened to the call, I wasnt able to hear anyone in the background or hear Ms H 
question what had been said. The call handler said a senior member of staff had made the 
decision that Ms Hs complaint was closed and wouldnt be reopened. Ms H was clearly 
upset when she was told Barclays wouldnt revisit her complaint. But the call handler was 
polite when informing Ms H that she would need to approach our service.
In this and other calls Ive not heard anything to suggest that Barclays customer service fell 
short of expected standards. And I can see that the appropriate referral rights were given to 
Ms H to bring her complaint to our service. 
  
Conclusion
  
In summary, Barclays have acknowledged Ms H didnt receive a call when promised, and 
that Ms H experienced issues relating to the text alert service. And while I understand Ms 
Hs frustration, Im satisfied that £120 in total reflects the trouble and upset caused. So, I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
 My final decision
To settle the complaints Barclays Bank PLC has paid £120 compensation to Ms H. I think 
this is fair in all the circumstances. So Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman