DRN-4310593
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says he was lent to irresponsibly and this placed him in a worse financial 
position.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr M with a loan for £1,000.00 in November 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £60.34. One of our adjudicators reviewed what 
Mr M and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and it obtained some information on his expenditure as result of a credit search it 
carried out. And all of this information showed Mr M could afford to make the repayments he 
was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Mr M had had previous 
difficulties repaying credit but that his commitments at the time were relatively well 
maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ms debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income, they appeared to be relatively well 
managed and there were many accounts opened recently. 
I accept that Mr M appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money 
obtained. 
But even if I accept that 118 118 Moneys checks ought to have gone into finding out about 
Mr Ms actual living expenses, I dont think this would have made a difference. I say this 
because looking at the information Mr M has provided there isnt anything in it which that 
including his actual living expenses, rather than estimates, would have shown the low 
monthly loan repayments to be demonstrably unaffordable. 
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, I dont think that 118 118 Money did 
anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
And, in any event, I dont think that doing more would have prevented it from lending either.
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman