DRN-1761484
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with amount Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) offered him 
for his claim under his contents insurance. 
What happened
Mr K made a claim under his contents insurance for a lost pair of earrings which he bought 
while out of the country. The cost of the earrings was significantly above the import duty 
threshold and Mr K confirmed he didnt declare them at airport customs. Because of this, 
Lloyds offered to pay the amount he had bought them for, not their value in the UK.
Mr K was unhappy with the amount offered because he felt Lloyds hadnt acted in line with 
his policy. He complained that it asked a jeweller to validate its approach to the claim but 
didnt value the earrings.
Lloyds said it wouldnt pay more than the purchase price because Mr K shouldnt gain from 
the loss.
To resolve his complaint, Mr K would like Lloyds to settle the claim by replacing the earrings 
on a like for like basis rather than as a cash settlement.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said Lloyds had acted in line with the 
policy, which allowed it to settle the claim by repairing, replacing or providing a cash 
settlement. Lloyds chose to offer a cash payment.
She noted the term Mr K relied upon, which stated that Lloyds would base its payment on 
expert opinion of the value immediately prior to its loss. Mr K thought that as its jewellery 
experts only validated the approach to his claim, Lloyds hadnt valued the earrings. Our 
investigator explained that because Mr K didnt pay duty on the earrings, it was fair for 
Lloyds to pay the overseas purchase price if the cost to replace them in the UK was higher. 
She also explained that the policy is there to put him back in the position he was in before 
the loss, not to make a financial gain.
Although Mr K complained that Lloyds didnt value the earrings, our investigator explained 
that it wouldnt be of any benefit to him. She thought that Lloyds had already put him into the 
fairest position because if a valuation put the earrings at a lower value than the purchase 
price, Lloyds could reasonably reduce its settlement offer. If the earrings were valued at 
more than the purchase price, Lloyds would still only pay the equivalent of the purchase 
price. So the outcome of a valuation would not put Mr K in a better position.
Mr K didnt agree. He repeated his concerns that Lloyds hadnt based its offer on a valuation 
and the cash settlement offer hadnt put him back in the same position as before the loss. He 
went on to say that as Lloyds would pay the full UK value of an item bought overseas which 
fell below the duty threshold, it should apply the same principles across all claims. And the 
only way Lloyds would know if the earrings fell below the threshold would be to get an expert opinion, which it hasnt done. In summary, Mr K feels that the insurer is gaining from his loss 
and if he had provided a UK valuation rather than the receipt Lloyds wouldve paid the UK 
value. He thinks the simplest resolution to his complaint is for Lloyds to replace the earrings 
on a like for like basis.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive looked at whether it mattered that Lloyds didnt value the earrings and I dont think 
it did. Mr K provided proof of purchase which showed the price in the overseas currency. 
Lloyds jewellery expert validated the claim and it offered Mr K the equivalent in GB pounds 
less his excess. As Mr K had only just bought the earrings, it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
accept that amount as the value of the earrings immediately prior to the loss. 
Mr K says that Lloyds wouldve paid the full UK value if the jewellery fell below the duty 
threshold so it shouldve valued the earrings. He points out that someone in those 
circumstances who hadnt paid duty would receive a cash settlement greater than the price 
they paid. I agree, but in those circumstances duty wouldnt have been owed. Mr K paid 
significantly more for the earrings than the duty threshold so this scenario doesnt fit his 
circumstances.
Although Mr K would like Lloyds to pay him the UK value or replace on a like for like basis, I 
dont agree this would put him back in the same position. If the cash equivalent of the UK 
value is higher than the price paid, as Mr K believes it is, he will have gained from the claim. 
Simply put, he will have received more money from Lloyds than he spent on the earrings.
If Mr K had paid the duty on the earrings, it wouldve been fair for Lloyds to either replace the 
earrings or pay the UK value. As this isnt the case, then Im satisfied Lloyds has made a fair 
settlement offer to put Mr K back in the same financial position. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman