DRN-2411003
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited shouldnt have agreed to lend to him under a 
conditional sale agreement on the grounds that it was not affordable.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to fund the 
acquisition of a car. The agreement set out that Mr M would pay Moneybarn a total of 
£26,676.25 by making monthly payments of £448.75 over 60 months.
Mr M subsequently was unable to meet the contractual payments of the agreement. 
Ultimately, after requesting Mr M repay arrears which had grown, Moneybarn recovered the 
car and sold it in March 2019. It asked Mr M to repay the remainder of the loan.
Mr M subsequently raised a complaint about the agreement in October 2019. He said, in 
summary, that the loan was provided irresponsibly because it was not affordable. Mr M said 
hed later experienced financial difficulty as well as challenging personal circumstances. He 
asked Moneybarn to refund interest and charges he had paid and to remove adverse 
information it had recorded with credit reference agencies. 
Moneybarn responded to Mr Ms complaint in November 2019. It said it had performed a 
credit search and asked Mr M to provide it with proof of his income by way of his wage slips. 
It said that Mr Ms application had met its lending criteria and the loan was therefore 
affordable. It was satisfied that it had not made an error regarding interest applied to Mr Ms 
account, nor information it had recorded with credit reference agencies.
Moneybarn acknowledged that Mr M had faced challenging personal circumstances and 
experienced financial difficulties due to his absence from work following the unfortunate 
death of his father in late 2018. But, overall it was satisfied that that it had made reasonable 
efforts to help Mr M given his circumstances.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated that he didnt think the loan 
Moneybarn had given him was affordable and that should have been clear from the credit 
check it completed as well as the bank statements Mr M had provided.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They concluded that Moneybarn had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that Mr M could repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. They also found that Moneybarn had made sufficient efforts to try to help 
Mr M regain control of his payments. They sympathised that Mr M had experienced 
challenging personal circumstances but didnt think that Moneybarn had acted unfairly 
overall.
Mr M disagreed. He said that Moneybarn didnt ask him about his financial commitments, 
many of which wouldnt have been visible from his credit file or bank statements. Our 
investigator said that Moneybarn wasnt required to ask Mr M every detail of his income and 
expenditure. They said that Moneybarn could assess income and expenditure by way of 
considering a number of sources such as credit checks, statistical data, as well as looking at 
bank statements and payslips. They maintained that Moneybarn had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks as it had been required to, and that the factors Mr M had cited 
were not sufficient to say that Moneybarn ought not to have lent to him.
Mr M asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman, so its been given to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr M has said its clear that he feels strongly about his complaint and he believes 
that Moneybarn did not treat him fairly for a number of reasons. I can assure Mr M that Ive 
carefully considered all of the points hes made and all of the evidence hes provided in 
relation to his complaint. Mr M may consider that my findings dont mirror the level of detail 
of his submissions, but thats simply a reflection of the informal nature of our service. My 
decision will address what I consider to be the relevant points relating to Mr Ms complaint.
 
In considering whats fair and reasonable regarding the affordability of Mr Ms loan, Ill take 
into account relevant law, rules and guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
Moneybarn has regulatory obligations under the Consumer Credit Sourcebook or CONC. It 
says that lenders need to carry out checks to ensure that any lending it gives is affordable 
and that repayments are sustainable for the borrower.
Applying this to Mr Ms complaint, I need to determine whether Moneybarn carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. If I find that it did not, then I need to consider whether reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have shown that he could sustainably repay the loan.
Carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks doesnt look the same for every customer. 
Id have expected Moneybarn to take into account a number of factors to determine what a 
reasonable and proportionate check was for Mr Ms circumstances, including (but not limited 
to) Mr Ms financial circumstances, the amount of credit, the total repayable as well as the 
duration of the agreement and size of the regular payments.
Moneybarn has told us that to assess whether Mr Ms loan was affordable it carried out a 
credit check and asked for evidence of his income, which it received in the form of wage 
slips as well as bank statements. Moneybarn has said that by conducting a credit check it 
determined Mr Ms level of debt and existing financial commitments.
 
Moneybarn hasnt provided this service with a copy of the results of the credit check it 
carried out. But the results of its check would have effectively shown what was represented 
on Mr Ms credit file at the time. Hes given us a copy of his credit file and told us that he 
believes the information on it ought to have stopped Moneybarn from agreeing to lend to 
him.
Having reviewed Mr Ms credit file, specifically the information which would have been 
present at the point he applied for a loan with Moneybarn, I accept theres a number of 
defaulted accounts present, as well as a County Court Judgement (CCJ). I understand why 
Mr M believes Moneybarn ought to have been cautious about lending to him given this. But, 
it doesnt necessarily follow that Moneybarn did something wrong by lending to Mr M, or that 
it should have carried out more checks than it did.
 Generally speaking, businesses are entitled to use discretion about whether they choose to 
lend to consumers with adverse information on their credit file. So, its for Moneybarn to 
determine its appetite for risk in deciding whether or not to lend to customers with an 
adverse credit history. If, however, it knows a customer had adverse credit information, Id 
expect it to take into account the particular circumstances behind it as it might be an 
indication that a consumer might be in financial difficulty, especially if its recent.
In Mr Ms case I can see that the most recent default on his credit file, at the time he applied, 
was in December 2017. It was recorded by a debt collection agent in respect of a hire 
purchase agreement. Given that particular agent isnt regulated to provide hire purchase 
agreements and the account was opened in 2014 I think its likely to represent an account 
that had been defaulted prior to 2017 and simply continued to report it from the point it was 
passed to the collection agent. In any case, for the avoidance of doubt Ill interpret this as an 
account which defaulted in December 2017.
The next most recent entry was a default in relation to a credit card account in July 2016. 
The CCJ was recorded in March 2016, and the remainder or the defaults on Mr Ms credit 
file were recorded prior to this.
I think that all of this indicates that Mr M could have experienced financial difficulty between 
2015 and 2016. But I dont think that it gives an obvious or clear indication that Mr M had 
experienced financial difficulty or hardship at the time he applied for a loan with Moneybarn 
in 2018, or as much as a year before that, aside from the default recorded in December 
2017. Im not satisfied that particular default in isolation is indicative of wider financial 
difficulties, nor that Moneybarn ought to have interpreted it in that way. In any case, Id have 
expected Moneybarn to weigh this information up against the other evidence Mr M gave it 
before deciding whether further checks were appropriate.
Mr M gave Moneybarn copies of recent wage slips as well as bank statements. Moneybarn 
has said that the loan Mr M applied for featured regular payments which made up 12% of Mr 
Ms monthly income, which didnt exceed its lending criteria, so it was considered affordable. 
However, Im not satisfied that this is accurate. Ill explain why.
Moneybarn said that Mr Ms wage slips showed that in the two months leading up to his 
application he averaged a net income of around £3,500. Whilst thats correct, I also think its 
clear from those wage slips that it wasnt necessarily representative of the salary which Mr M 
would usually expect to receive, which was noted as being £35,000 per year. Mr Ms said his 
usual monthly income would be around £2,300, which I believe is consistent with that. 
Both of the wage slips Mr M provided showed an additional payment by way of a travel 
allowance. I dont know whether that wouldve continued, effectively increasing his monthly 
income, but in any case, I think its fair to say that on the assumption Mr M would receive a 
net monthly income of a minimum of £2,300, the required payments of £488.75 made up 
approximately 21% of Mr Ms income, leaving him with a disposable income of around 
£1,800 per month. 
From what Moneybarn has told us of its lending criteria, Im satisfied that even if I accept the 
loan repayments made up 21% of Mr Ms income, his application would have still met its 
lending criteria and it likely would not have asked for more. 
Taking into account what Ive said above, specifically that Mr Ms credit file didnt show any 
new adverse information in the year leading up to his application (other than one defaulted 
account), that Mr Ms credit file as well as bank statements were likely a reasonable indicator 
of his financial commitments and level of debt and that he was able to demonstrate that he 
would be earning (at a minimum) £35,000 per year, I think that the affordability checks that Moneybarn completed were reasonable and proportionate. I say this with particular regard 
for the size, duration and overall cost of the borrowing Mr M applied for. And it follows that 
Im not satisfied that Moneybarns lending was irresponsible. 
I know that Mr M feels strongly that Moneybarn ought to have asked for further details of his 
expenditure because he doesnt consider that his bank statements and credit file were an 
accurate representation of those costs. I accept that Mr Ms bank statements show few 
committed regular financial commitments, other than those associated with childcare and 
maintenance. They do show a number of cash withdrawals and transfers, account charges, 
as well as what appears to be discretionary spending. Overall, I dont think the statements 
Mr M provided Moneybarn with ought to have necessarily caused it to ask for further 
information about his expenditure. Additionally, I think that in the absence of Mr M telling 
Moneybarn that the evidence hed given it was not representative of his expenditure, it was 
reasonable for it to rely on that information as though it was an accurate representation of Mr 
Ms financial position. 
Im aware that later in the year that Mr M took the loan with Moneybarn he subsequently 
experienced particularly challenging personal circumstances and I understand that 
contributed to him experiencing financial difficulties. However, based on what both parties 
have said and submitted, I think its fair to say that it seems Moneybarn treated Mr M fairly, 
with forbearance and due consideration as Id have expected it to.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman