DRN-4070516
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) delayed a transfer 
from her stocks and shares ISA to another provider, preventing her from trading as she 
wanted, so incurring her a significant loss. 
Shes also made a complaint against the other provider, which has been dealt with under a 
separate reference.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint will be familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Rather, Ill briefly recap the key points, then focus on giving reasons for reaching 
my decision.
In August 2020 Mrs D requested that Fidelity transfer share holdings and cash to an 
ISA held with another provider. By November 2020 the transfer process was still 
ongoing, so she raised a complaint. 
Fidelity accepted failings in administrating the transfer and offered Mrs D £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. It also identified that thered been a period 
during which shed been unable to access the cash (around £58,000) on the account 
to trade. As it was unable to determine how the money mightve been invested, it 
offered to pay her interest on it at 8% simple for the period in question.     
Mrs D didnt accept this. She said her intention, if the transfer had completed without 
delay, had been to invest all the cash along with the proceeds of selling all the 
transferred stocks  around £148,000  into a single stock: Tesla Inc. As such, she 
felt she should be compensated based on having bought and sold this amount, 
consistent with actual purchases and sales of Tesla shed made in October 2020 and 
January 2021, in the other providers ISA.
An investigator at this service considered the matter and concluded that if the 
transfer had completed earlier Mrs D would likely have invested more money into 
Tesla. But he proposed compensation based on a compromise, given the difficulty in 
determining precisely how she wouldve invested. This involved putting her in the 
position shed have been in had she invested only the £58,000 cash from the Fidelity 
ISA in Tesla in October 2020 and sold in January 2021, but not the proceeds from 
selling the other holdings. 
Neither party accepted this proposal. Mrs D maintained her view that shed have 
invested the significantly higher amount into Tesla, so the compensation should be 
based on that. Fidelity felt Mrs Ds claim for investment loss was speculative and 
maintained that its offer of £500 along with 8% simple interest on the cash amount 
was fair in all the circumstances. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out my reasons for reaching a different 
conclusion to that reached by the investigator. In part, I said: 
As noted, the background set out above is only a brief synopsis of the circumstances before 
and after Mrs D made her complaint. Both parties have provided lengthy submissions to 
support their respective views, which Ive read and considered closely. But Im going to focus 
on what I consider to now be the crux of the matter and my reasons for provisionally 
reaching a different conclusion to that reached by the investigator. Where the evidence is 
incomplete or inconclusive, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence.
Whether or not there were avoidable delays in the transfer caused by Fidelity is not really in 
dispute. Theres some disagreement around specific dates and how some aspects of the 
transfer shouldve been administered. But I dont think that disagreement really impacts the 
crux of the complaint, which to my mind is whether (or not) it can be reasonably determined 
what Mrs D wouldve done if the transfer had completed earlier and shed had all the 
holdings and cash from her Fidelity ISA available in her other ISA from late September/early 
October 2020.    
This type of situation and complaint is not unusual. Its commonplace for there to be delays 
when transferring ISA holdings between providers. Complications exist due to a combination 
of strict ISA rules, different types of holdings and the way in which providers communicate 
with each other. Our usual approach when its apparent that a provider has made a mistake 
and caused a delay is to try and place the consumer back in the position theyd be in if the 
delay hadnt occurred. To do so, we need to determine how, more likely than not, they might 
otherwise have invested.
Making such a determination usually involves looking at the actions of the consumer during 
the period of delay, along with a consideration of the wider circumstances  their trading 
history, personal circumstances, etc. What does the available evidence in this respect tell us 
about their likely intentions and possible courses of action?  
Theres no dispute that Mrs D did purchase Tesla stock during the period in question. Her 
trading records for the other ISA show this. But the records also show Tesla being sold 
during the same period. In fact, there were around 10 trades in Tesla between August 2020 
and January 2021, along with trades in other stocks. And the amounts involved were all 
much smaller than the amount shes suggested she wouldve bought and sold but for the 
transfer delay. 
Mrs D has said this was because she was limited by the amount of cash available in the 
other ISA. And it does appear to have been the case that there was no more cash available. 
But I nevertheless think its difficult to conclude that a record of making relatively small 
trades in a particular stock mean that, with considerably more money available, a very large 
trade wouldve been made. 
From what Ive seen of Mrs Ds trading history, shes not previously made a single purchase 
of stock as large as that which shes suggested she wouldve made in Tesla. The records 
from the other ISA provider that cover the period February 2020 through to March 2021 
show her largest purchase to be one of around £20,000. The largest individual holding of the 
four that were transferred from Fidelity to the new provider was just under £49,000. Again, 
significantly less that the proposed purchase of Tesla. 
Mrs D has also said in her submissions that For the period of the transfer (from August 
2020 to Feb 2021) I was on maternity leave (without my normal income). During this time I 
had to deal with the stresses of coping with a newborn baby, during covid-19 (without my family support during lockdowns).
These dont strike me as circumstances that sit comfortably with a decision to make a very 
large investment  effectively all her investable monies  into a historically very volatile 
stock. Mrs D did clearly continue to trade during this period. But, as Ive highlighted, this was 
in much smaller volumes than that which shes proposed. And, as noted, its also clear she 
bought and sold stocks other than Tesla within both ISAs during the same period. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs D put Fidelity on notice of her desire to trade Tesla, or do 
any other specific trading, at any point during the period in question. Whether, for instance, 
she chased the transfer and expressed concern at the delay because she was potentially 
missing out on a particular investment opportunity. 
But it appears she didnt mention anything along these lines when she first made her 
complaint to Fidelity in November 2020 (which seems to be the first time she contacted it 
about the matter). In an email to Fidelity of 19 November 2020 she said it has now been 
over three months and the shares have not been transferred. What is the reason for the hold 
up and provide a date on when the transfer will take place. 
And neither did she mention any specific intention when she referred her complaint to this 
service a couple of months later in January 2021. She said she was unhappy that the 
transfer was still ongoing (as it was at that point) because I want to purchase shares in 
companies that I can access on the (other providers) platform. (Tesla could not be traded 
with Fidelity as it didnt handle US stocks).
I note here Mrs Ds reference to companies, which doesnt suggest her intention was to 
invest everything in any one company. No mention made of what by that point wouldve 
been a missed opportunity to make a significant return from an investment in Tesla. Rather, 
the desired resolution Mrs D set out on her complaint form was simply for Fidelity to 
compensate her for not being able to trade my shares since the end of September 2020 
(which is when Fidelity said the transfer would be complete by).
When, once the complaint had been allocated to an investigator, Mrs D made further 
submissions to us in June 2021 she did then say, My intention was to invest the full amount 
of my investments and cash held within my Fidelity ISAinto Tesla stockat the beginning 
of October 2020. She said the value wouldve been just over £148,000. To illustrate her 
potential loss, she provided evidence of two of the Tesla purchases shed made in the other 
ISA on 9 and 16 October 2020 (a total of 39 shares) and one of the sales on 8 January 2021 
of 47 shares. Using these examples gave a return of 103.66%, so a claimed investment loss 
of nearly £154,000. 
But, as Ive already stressed, these werent the only trades in Tesla Mrs D had done during 
the period in question. So, while its clear Tesla was a stock that Mrs D had invested in prior 
to initiating the transfer with Fidelity and one she continued to trade during the period in 
question, I dont think a consideration of the evidence and the wider circumstances support a 
determination of a specific investment loss. Certainly, I dont think theres sufficient evidence 
to support a finding that, if the transfer had completed without delay by the end of September 
2020, Mrs D would more likely than not have invested almost £150,000 into Tesla. 
And further, for similar reasons, I dont think its likely she wouldve invested as much as 
£58,000  the cash amount transferred from the Fidelity ISA and suggested by the 
investigator as a compromise amount. I accept its possible she wouldve re-invested some 
additional money into Tesla. But I think its equally possible that she wouldve put more 
money into the other stocks she invested in. And there remains the possibility that she 
mightve done something else entirely. I recognise Mrs D will be very disappointed Ive reached a different conclusion to that 
reached by the investigator. But, as it stands, I find Im unable to conclude on balance that 
there was a specific course of investment action Mrs D would more likely than not have 
taken if the transfer hadnt been delayed. And that being so, Im of the view that the offer 
already made by Fidelity, to pay 8% simple interest on the cash amount for the period it 
couldnt be invested, along with £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays is 
fair.
Fidelity confirmed it had nothing it wished to add in response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs D made further comprehensive submissions to support her position, which can be 
broadly summarised as: 
There was clear evidence of her chasing Fidelity to complete the transfer and she 
provided further email and call recording evidence of this.
She did have some large holdings, including in one technology trust that wouldve 
itself included Tesla stock. This trust holding and direct Tesla holdings combined 
wouldve equated to around £75,000, which indicated her willingness to invest large 
amounts in this asset type. 
When the transfer did eventually complete, she invested £55,000 of the £58,000 
within 42 days, including £40,000 in a single day. This was in other stocks, but by this 
point the Tesla opportunity had been missed. 
The majority of trades shed carried out in Tesla with the other provider had been 
purchases, including a single purchase of £31,000 on 8 January 2021. 
Her maternity situation hadnt impacted her trading behaviour  that situation was 
more relevant in respect of the distress and inconvenience the matter had caused.
Why had I considered the other provider to not be at fault? 
The initial date for calculating the loss should be 7 September 2020 and as 87% of 
her holdings with the other provider were in Tesla, that proportion should be used for 
any calculation.  
But as a compromise it should be assumed that shed have invested £58,000 in 
Tesla on 9 October 2020 and sold on 8 January 2021 and the loss determined in this 
way should be split between the two providers. 
The fact Id concluded that I was unable to determine the amount that would 
otherwise been invested was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted carefully all Mrs D has said in response to my provisional decision. But having 
done so, my view remains unchanged. On balance, Im unable to conclude that there was a 
specific course of investment action that I can reasonably say she would more likely than not 
have taken if the transfer hadnt been delayed.
Ive looked at the additional evidence shes provided in response to my provisional decision 
 including listening to the recording of the telephone call she had with Fidelity on 7 January 
2021  and I accept it shows that she was actively chasing the transfer and clearly very 
frustrated that by this point had taken so long. But that said, there is nothing in any of this 
evidence that indicates a specific intention on her part to invest in Tesla, or any other 
particular stock. 
In one of the emails from Fidelity that Mrs D has provided, dated 18 February 2021, she was 
asked by Fidelity to provide some detail around the losses she had made general reference to when chasing the transfer. But this requested detail doesnt appear to have 
been provided, despite by this point the Tesla investment opportunity having been and gone. 
Mrs D has said that she didnt provide the detail because by that time shed lost faith in 
Fidelity and had already referred the matter to this service. But I cant see why that wouldve 
prevented her from mentioning a loss relating to Tesla, which wouldve been apparent by 
this point. Or indeed, why she didnt chase the transfer during the period between 
September 2020 and November 2020, the time during which she says she wouldve been 
wanting to make the very large investment in Tesla. 
I note also what Mrs D has said about purchasing similar technology stock in her Fidelity 
account during October 2020 and how this shows that she was seeking greater exposure to 
this type of investment, of which Tesla wouldve been an example. But, as I noted in my 
provisional decision, I dont think these examples of smaller investments made by her into 
similar areas support a view that she would, more likely than not, have committed all her 
money into a single direct investment in one stock if the transfer had completed sooner. 
Similarly, the fact that once the transfer completed she then invested £40,000 in one day, 
doesnt to my mind suggest a desire to accept the level of risk associated with investing 
everything into Tesla. The £40,000 investment to which shes referred was made around six 
weeks after the transfer completed and involved three different stocks. As such, I dont feel 
that it was comparable to the type of investment shes suggesting she wouldve made.  
In conclusion, I understand Mrs D feels that its unfair that Ive not made a determination 
about how she might otherwise have invested. But in looking at the matter impartially, I must 
be fair to both parties. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude that, but for the transfer delay, she wouldve invested all her 
money into Tesla. And further, more generally, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to 
determine another particular alternative  the sort of compromise that shes suggested. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied the offer made by Fidelity to pay interest at 8% simple on the amount of 
£58,275.53, for the period that it could not be traded, between 26 November 2020 and when 
the transfer completed, along with £500 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delay, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.    
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited 
should make payment to Mrs D as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman