DRN-3320359
The complaint
Mr K complains about a delay in transferring funds he held in an ISA with Dudley Building 
Society to another bank he had an account with. He complains that Dudley didnt make 
sufficient efforts to inform him of an address mis-match which delayed the transfer, and as a 
result the matter took longer than was necessary. Hed like compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to him.
 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr K submitted an application form to Dudley to open a one year fixed rate ISA 
with funds to be transferred from another bank. 
On 8 June 2020 Dudley contacted Mr K via telephone to explain that his ISA was about to 
mature, and confirmed that a maturity pack had been sent to him. Mr K indicated over the 
phone that he had not received the maturity pack, and also told Dudley that he was looking 
to close the account and transfer his funds elsewhere. Dudley told Mr K that a new maturity 
pack would be sent out to him. 
On 6 August 2020 Dudley received an ISA transfer request from Mr Ks other bank which Ill 
call A. The address A quoted on the form was not the same address as the one Mr K had 
registered with Dudley. As a result, Dudley tried calling Mr K the following day but was 
unable to get a hold of him. It wrote to A confirming that the transfer could not proceed, and 
asking it to get in touch with Mr K. 
Between August and December 2020 the transfer was not processed  during this time Mr K 
raised a complaint with Dudley. It considered that it hadnt done anything wrong, but 
acknowledged it could also have emailed Mr K in August in addition to calling and writing to 
him. It offered £10 compensation which he declined. 
On 22 December 2020 Dudley received a new form from A which specified the same 
address Dudley had on file for Mr K. It therefore transferred Mr Ks funds the following day 
as per his instructions. 
There was some further correspondence between Mr K and Dudley about the matter, and he 
referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into his complaint, but 
didnt consider it should be upheld. In short, he thought that Dudley didnt do anything wrong. 
He said that it had attempted to contact Mr K when it discovered the address discrepancy, 
and then promptly let A know what had happened. 
He considered it was for A to contact Mr K and progress the matter. He concluded that as 
Dudley hadnt done anything wrong, and it wasnt its fault that the wrong address had been 
quoted, it neednt do anything further to put things right. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator:
He said that in 2019 the same thing had happened, and therefore Dudley ought to 
have known about his other address and contacted him there. 
He didnt think the maturity pack was sent as he was told on 8 June 2020  in 
particular he thought that it couldnt have been sent on 6 June 2020 as the 
investigator said because that was a Saturday. 
He said it wasnt clear whether Dudley had called him but his phone was off, or that it 
had continued to ring with no voicemail. 
He said the investigator hadnt addressed Dudleys admission that an email wouldve 
sped things up. 
He didnt agree that the investigator was right to contact A to find out what further 
contact was made with him. In any event, he said that he had told A that he was 
going to be out of the country from 24 June 2020 onwards, but A had failed to take 
this into account and had accepted this error. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but I dont have much to add to 
what the investigator has already said. 
Mr K has made a number of submissions about the areas of Dudleys service to him which 
he thinks were not acceptable. Ive considered those submissions, but Im not persuaded 
Dudley was responsible for the delay in transferring his ISA funds  and therefore, Im not 
persuaded it ought to pay him any compensation. 
In terms of this issue having previously occurred, its important that I explain to Mr K that it 
wasnt for Dudley to reconcile which address was the correct one. It was for Mr K, or A, to 
ensure that the paperwork was in order, and that the request was properly annotated in such 
a way as to facilitate the transfer of funds in line with his instructions. Dudley has explained 
that it only held one address for Mr K  and it would therefore not have contacted him at the 
other address unless Mr K changed his registered address with it. 
And in my view, the fact that this had previously occurred doesnt help Mr Ks case. 
Ultimately in 2019, the discrepancy in addresses was resolved by Mr K preferring the 
address which Dudley had on file for him in 2020  he couldve chosen the other address, 
but he didnt. So in 2020, Mr K either needed to use the same address when asking A to 
request the funds on maturity, or he needed to change his registered address with Dudley 
prior to requesting the transfer. If Mr K had done either of these things, there would have 
been no delay to the transfer of his matured funds. And if Mr K did in fact give A the correct 
address, but it made the mistake on the form, then the delay would still have nothing to do 
with Dudleys actions. And therefore Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask Dudley to compensate Mr K for the delay or the inconvenience, when in my view it had 
nothing to do with it. 
In addition, I can see that Dudley took steps to notify Mr K and A about the issue:
It attempted a phone call to Mr K but was unable to get through or leave a voicemail. 
It sent Mr K a letter, to the address it had on file for him, dated 7 August 2020. It sent a letter to A on 7 August 2020 explaining that the address that had been 
quoted did not match the one Dudley had on file for Mr K, and asking A to make 
contact with him. 
In my view, Dudley made reasonable attempts to contact Mr K and A, and to inform them of 
the issue. In particular, once it had written to A to explain what had happened, it was As 
responsibility to reach out to Mr K and explain the reasons why the transfer was unable to 
proceed. 
For these reasons, its clear to me that there was nothing further Dudley needed to do, given 
that as Ive said above, the discrepancy wasnt something it was responsible for. I say this 
bearing in mind that if A had managed to get hold of Mr K and raise the issue with him, this 
too wouldve entirely avoided the delay which he experienced. So this was a further 
opportunity outside of Dudleys control to have avoided the delay in transferring the funds.  
I acknowledge that Dudley accepted it couldve emailed Mr K in August upon receipt of the 
form from A  and whilst that wouldve been excellent service, Im not persuaded this means 
Mr Ks complaint should be upheld, or that Dudley ought to bear the consequences of the 
inconvenience caused by the delay. 
I say this because it isnt my role to punish businesses or to award compensation for minor 
areas of service which couldve been improved. I need to be satisfied, on balance, that 
Dudley did something, or failed to do something, which caused Mr K an inconvenience such 
that financial compensation is fair and reasonable. As Ive said above, Im persuaded that in 
this case, the inconvenience Mr K suffered by virtue of the transfer being delayed was not 
something Dudley caused. And Im satisfied that overall, it made reasonable attempts to 
alert both Mr K and A to the issue. So for these reasons, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask it compensate Mr K and, accordingly, I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman