DRN-2685968
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Barclays Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions which 
were made between 2002 and 2013.
The submissions in this case came from Mr N so, for ease, I will refer to him throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr N complained to Barclays about some payments being made to company A.  He 
explained he had terminated his contract with A - but yet the payments continued.  He asked 
Barclays to stop the payments.
Mr Ns complaint has a lengthy history.  The following chronology will assist in setting out 
matters:
- 2002  first disputed transactions left the account 
- 2003 - Mr N said he contacted Barclays to assist but has no record
- 2011  the first record Barclays has of Mr N complaining
- 2013  Barclays stops the payments to A and write to Mr N requesting six years of 
paper statements to be sent to them with the disputed transactions highlighted
- 2015  Mr N sends back a signed form confirming the payments he is disputing.  Mr 
N says he had been trying to explain to Barclays since 2013 that he wasnt able to 
access six years worth of statements, but Barclays told him it was not able to send 
them to him either
- 2019  October 2019 a final response was issued in relation to the complaint
In its final response, Barclays did not uphold the complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions.  It apologised for not assisting Mr N with the statements in 2013 and offered 
£50 for the poor service.
So, Mr N came to this service.  He said he had moved abroad in 2002 and had cancelled his 
contract with A.  When the payments had continued, he queried this with Barclays.  He said 
this was initially in 2003 although he has no record of this.  He said he has been trying to get 
to the bottom of things since then.
Our investigator thought Barclays could have done more.  She explained to Mr N that she 
would ask Barclays to reimburse these transactions  but only from 2005 onwards.  This is 
because the rules which govern this service place quite a strict timeline on how far back we 
can consider complaints.
She also thought it should pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr N accepted the investigators view, but Barclays did not.  It asked that an ombudsman 
provide a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
payments prior to November 2007
The rules which govern this service are called DISP and are published by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. They include rules about time limits, and they say  at DISP 2.8.2R  that 
unless the business complained about consents, we cant generally look at complaints 
made:
- more than six years after the event complained of; or, if later
- more than three years after the consumer knew, or should reasonably have realised, they 
had cause to complain;
- unless the person complaining referred the complaint to the business complained about or 
to this service within that period and has a written acknowledgment or some other record of 
the complaint having been received.
What that means for Mr Ns complaint is that as the first record of him complaining is in 
November 2011, this service can only consider transactions going back six years from then 
 so November 2005.
I can, if exceptional circumstances exist, consider a complaint about matters which go 
further back.  But Ive not been made aware of any such circumstances.
payments from November 2007 - 2013  
Barclays say it has acted reasonably in this complaint because the payments from Mr Ns 
account cannot be treated as unauthorised.  It says the correct approach would be to deal 
with them by way of a chargeback because Mr N admits to having a relationship with A.
But Im afraid I dont agree.  Mr N did have a relationship with A, but he told this service he 
had cancelled this contract in 2002 when he left the UK.  I have no reason to doubt what Mr 
N says as he would not have had the need for the services which A provides.  So, any 
payments taken after this time would be deemed unauthorised.
Barclays failed to act accordingly when Mr N complained in 2013.  It acknowledged in its 
final response letter that it had not assisted Mr N with the provision of statements.  This 
effectively frustrated Mr Ns ability to complete the complaint paperwork.
So, Ive gone on to consider what would have happened had Mr N been able to make his 
complaint.
Mr N said he had spoken to A at the time and he was told it couldnt see why these 
payments had continued against Mr Ns name.  I also acknowledge Mr N was leaving the UK 
and would not have needed As services from 2002. I cant see any reason why he wouldnt 
have cancelled his contract. Finally, Ive noted that once Barclays intervened in 2013 and 
cancelled the payments, they did stop.I think had Mr Ns complaint not been frustrated by Barclays in 2013, he would have been 
successful in having the disputed transactions from A returned.
In those circumstances, I think a fair and reasonable outcome here would be to uphold his 
complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
- reimburse all disputed transaction to A from November 2007 until the last payment in 
2013  
- pay interest at a rate of 8% from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement
- refund any charges and interest charged to the account as a result of these 
transactions from November 2007 until 2013
- pay Mr and Mrs N £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman