DRN-2925497
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) defaulted her account leading to
problems getting a mortgage. She would like the default removed.
What happened
Mrs K opened a shopping account with Studio in 2012. She says in early 2018 she fell into
arrears and in November 2018 agreed a repayment plan. She says she had health issues at 
the time and was in hospital from February to June 2019 during which time Studio sent her a
default notice which she didnt get. She says despite her husband paying off her account in
full Studio still defaulted her account which has given her problems in getting a mortgage.
Studio felt it actions were appropriate, it said it  gave Mrs K enough time to clear her 
account, but she didnt do so , and she didnt provide any evidence to support her hospital 
stay. It did however send Mrs As a cheque for £50 for the inconvenience to her
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
It was a difficult balance for a business to make as to when to issue a default, 
balancing giving a fair opportunity to make good any arrears to avoid a default 
against closing an account straight away  usually with interest and charges 
suspended.
Based on Mrs Ks  account history It didnt seem to me that Mrs K was a customer 
who was regularly behind with payments  had she been so that might have been a 
reason for Studio acting more promptly with regards to the default.
Mrs K told us she advised Studio of financial problems when she fell into arrears with 
her account in 2018. At this point Studio did what we would have expected it to do, 
which was to respond positively and sympathetically by agreeing a repayment plan.
The last payment Mrs K made to that plan was the same month the repayment plan 
was set up  in November 2018. So, by not making any further payments she would 
have known she was behind with her plan.
Studio issued a default notice dated 26 February 2019. Mrs K says she didnt get this 
perhaps as she told us she was in hospital from February 2019 to June 2019. That 
may also explain why she says she didnt the default notice or the arrears letter dated 
16 May 2019 giving her a final chance to make good her outstanding balance
Mrs K didnt give either Studio, or us any confirmation hospitalisation Whilst I had no 
reason to doubt what Mrs K told us without any evidence to show she was unable to 
get, or deal with, correspondence at all from February to June 2019 Studio could not 
have taken this into account. I was also not sure why family members were unable to 
deal with her post on her behalf during this time. And of course, as Mrs K had made 
no payments to her account since November 2018 she would have been aware of 
issues on her account before she says she went into hospital.
I didnt find that  Studio unduly delayed issuing a default. Its default notice letter 
warned of the consequences if payment wasnt made within 21 days including 
possible action which might impact on her credit file  but it didnt state it would take 
such action if no payment was made just that it might. And given what Mrs K told us 
about her health situation it might have been considered harsh, with no further 
contact from Mrs K, to have gone ahead and issued a default 21days after the default 
notice letter.
I didnt think giving Mrs K time to make good her account over the next three months 
was too generous a time to give her. I think the default on 1 June 2019 was 
reasonable as, as I understand it, Mrs K had no contact with Studio from November 
2018 until June 2019.
Mrs K told us that the default has given her issues in getting a mortgage but didnt 
give us any evidence of this. Lenders typically look at a range of factors when 
offering loans so there might be any number of reasons as to why Mrs K wasnt able 
to get a mortgage. I thought it unlikely one default from Studio would be the only 
reason for mortgage applications being turned down.
It was important for credit files to accurately record account history and from what I 
saw I felt a default date of 1 June 2019 was accurate and fair. I didnt feel I could 
reasonably tell Studio to alter the date it was applied the default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
.Both Studio and a representative on behalf of Mrs K have responded to my provisional 
decision.
Studio accepted my provisional decision and made no further points for me to respond to .
Mrs K didnt accept my provisional decision. Her representative told us he had requested a 
copy of a phone call made to Studio to prove  Mrs K tried to make the payment to prevent 
the default being applied. He told us he had received a CD from Studio but as this didnt 
work, he was awaiting another CD.
I am conscious Mrs K had one month from the date the provisional decision was issued to 
make any comments for me to consider. As she had not responded by the response date of 
18 June 2021, we emailed on 21 June 2021 to check she had received the provisional 
decision and to see if she had any comments to make. On 22 June 2021 her representative 
responded to explain he was awaiting a new CD with the call recording. We then heard 
nothing more until our investigator called and emailed on 6 July 2021 to see if Mrs K now 
had this new information. Mrs Ks representative responded on 9 July 2021 to say it might 
take another month to get the call recording.
I have considered very carefully if a call recording showing Mrs K tried to make the payment 
to clear the balance would change my view and I dont think it would. I also think Mrs K has 
been given enough time to provide any further information and I think its only fair to Studio 
for me to now issue my view.I have revisited the customer contact notes Studio provided us with .There is no reference in 
the notes to say Mrs K offered to clear her balance within the time frame needed to do so to 
avoid a default. 
Had Mrs K ,or her representative, been in touch with Studio to offer to settle the balance 
prior to the default notice being issued in February 2019 , within the 21 days stated  in this 
notice  as a timescale for potential father action if payment not made or immediately on 
receipt of the final chasing letter dated 16 May 2019 then I dont believe the default would 
have been applied. However, during our investigation Mrs K hasnt given us any evidence to 
show payment was attempted within these timescales which it might have been reasonable 
to have expected her to do so had this been the case.
So, I think its likely if Mrs K did try to settle the account it was after the final letter Studio sent 
in May 2019 but then either before the default was applied in June 2019 or shortly 
afterwards. As I have no evidence to confirm that payment was offered within the timescales 
Studio set out, I dont believe it was unreasonable for Studio to register the default on Mrs K 
credit file,
Mrs K hasnt made any comments with respect to the timing of the default, so I am still of the 
view , as I was in my provisonal decision, that Studio allowed a proportionate amount of  
time for Mrs K to make good her account before applying the default. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman