DRN-4363412
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain about the delay by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc in processing 
their transfer of equity application (TOE) which meant they missed out on a fixed rate 
mortgage product before interest rates went up.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A began a TOE application in June 2022 and complain about the delay in 
processing the application as it took from then until October before it was implemented. 
TMW says it sent  a letter to their solicitors approving the application on 18 July 2022. TMW 
says that it took five weeks to get a response. TMW then emailed their solicitor on 3 
September 2022 and when it got a response it says that there was a problem with the 
signature and contacted the solicitor about that on 15 September 2022. TMW says it got an 
answer to that on 4 October 2022 and the TOE was completed on 14 October 2022, but this 
was too late to do the mortgage switch on 30 September.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she couldnt 
identify any unreasonable delay by TMW in the process. Mr A and Mrs A disagree and 
asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs A hoped to get their TOE completed in time to switch their mortgage product 
at the end of September 2022, but it didnt and believe that either TMW or their solicitor may 
be at fault for them missing out on that switch and the extra cost involved when interest rates 
went up. My role is to decide whether there is any fault on the part of TMW.
The difficulty with this complaint is that although its a complaint about a delay Mr A and Mrs 
A having identified any unreasonable delay that TMW have been responsible for. The 
application appears to have taken longer than it should have, but to uphold this complaint I 
need to find TMW at fault for that. Our investigator specifically asked if Mr A and Mrs A 
would identify instances where TMW was a fault in her email of 30 August 2023. Mr A and 
Mrs A replied referring to systematic delays by TMW whom they said was concentrating on 
protecting its financial interest. In respect of specifics, they referred to their previous email 
which itself referred to the requirement for certification of documentation causing a delay of 
five weeks; that the issue with Mr As signature not matching and so causing a delay was 
unreasonable and that delays could have been avoided had TMW asked for certified ID 
documents from the start. 
But certified proofs were required from early in the process and in its letter of 9 June 2022 
TMW said that certified proofs were required, and this was missing from the information 
provided in the application form. That was early in the process. As on the face of it, Mr As 
signature on the TR1 form doesnt match his signature on other documents, its entirely 
reasonable that TMW should have had questions about that and a delay caused by that 
enquiry isnt unreasonable,
I have looked at the process as a whole and Im unable to conclude that TMW was 
responsible for any unreasonable delay and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman