DRN-3176282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Acromas Insurance Company Limited have caused them significant 
distress when handling a claim under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 12 June 2020 Mr C was unfortunately involved in an accident where another car crashed 
into him. Following a number of issues, Mr and Mrs C wrote to Acromas to set out a 
complaint. They said:
They werent given the option of taking their car to their own garage.
The courtesy car first provided was extremely dirty and had to be replaced. They also 
werent happy with the size of the replacement car.
The original estimate didnt include damage to the rear nearside wheel.
Theyve had to make over 20 phone calls to Acromas to get updates on the progress 
of repairs as no proactive contact was made.
The first garage (who Ill call Y) called on 11 August 2020 to say the car was nearly 
ready, but they couldnt identify two issues, so the car needed to go to a second 
garage, who Ill call S.
The car was transported to S, rather than driven, suggesting it wasnt nearly ready as 
Y had said. 
Mr and Mrs C went to S to view the car and found a large number of additional 
issues. In addition, S told Mr and Mrs C the car hadnt yet been driven, wasnt in a 
state where it could be, and they couldnt guarantee that once all the repairs had 
been carried out the car would be roadworthy. Mr and Mrs C felt the car should be 
written off due to the cost of repairs.
Mr and Mrs C then called Acromas, having heard nothing, and it became apparent it 
didnt know where their car was, or that further repairs needed to take place. 
Additional issues were experienced with Acromas communication, including being 
told the additional repairs had been authorised, but then being told in a call a few 
days later they were still waiting to be repaired.
Mr and Mrs C also wanted to understand why Acromas hadnt pursued the other 
partys insurance company to get liability resolved  as they clearly werent at fault.
Following on from this, Mr and Mrs C also had their car renewal come through, and whereas 
previously itd been £662, itd now increased to £1,300.
In response, Acromas said:
For the time taken to decide liability, Acromas said itd asked for a Police report to 
assist with securing liability, and once asked for it couldnt control how long this 
would take to be provided.
Looking at the time taken for repairs to be completed, it found the majority of the 
delays were down to ongoing repairs or backorder parts. It said due to Covid, global 
supply chains have been affected leading to greater delays  which is beyond its 
control.
Regarding the quality of the repairs, it said it was very disappointed to find that 
following two quality control checks, and an inspection, the car wasnt returned in a 
satisfactory condition. It said Mr and Mrs C can send the invoice to rectify the 
remaining issues, which itll pay if the costs are fair and reasonable.
In respect of repairing the car, the maximum repair cost was £16,310 + VAT, and the 
total repair costs were £11,780 + VAT  so it felt its engineers had made the correct 
decision to repair the car. Acromas pointed to terms and conditions which said it can 
do this.
About the courtesy car, Acromas said itd given Mr and Mrs C one for the duration of 
the repairs and pointed to terms that said the size of the car would be a small manual 
transmission hatchback.
For the state of the courtesy car, it said it was shocked to see the condition and it 
expects all courtesy cars to be cleaned in line with Covid secure guidelines. 
Thinking about the customer service received from the claims department, it felt a 
specific agent should have been allocated to Mr and Mrs C to prevent them from 
having to keep calling for updates, as it didnt provide an adequate level of support. It 
said there was a lack of ownership from the claims department.
In summary, Acromas said it upheld parts of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, as they were not 
given proper support from their approved repairer or the claims department. In total, it 
awarded £400 compensation.
One of our Investigators looked into things. They upheld the complaint and recommended 
total compensation of £700 should be paid.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this, they felt further compensation was due because of the way 
theyd been treated. They said the liability issue still hadnt been resolved  and talked about 
their experience with other compensation awards, saying people get far more for going 
through less.
When I reviewed this complaint initially, I felt there was some confusion with how much 
compensation had been awarded. It was confirmed to both parties it was £700 and asked if 
they had any further comments. Neither party replied by the deadline, so Ive progressed the 
case now.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C commented at one point during their complaint that everything that could have 
gone wrong, has gone wrong. Having gone through all of their case I think from their 
perspective thats a very fair assessment. Things have definitely not happened as they 
ideally would, and Im sorry to hear of the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs C. But I need 
to make it clear I can only hold Acromas responsible for errors it or its agents made  I cant 
hold Acromas responsible for issues outside of its control.
Liability
From what Mr and Mrs C have said, liability should have been resolved far earlier given the 
dashcam footage they had showing they werent at fault.I can understand their frustration on this point, but I find Acromas answer to be a fair one. 
Here, Acromas has said its disputing liability with the other insurer and cant do much more 
until its had replies from the other insurer.
Thats a fair answer  and liability disputes can often be complex and lengthy. It seems since 
Acromas issued its final response things have moved on, as Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs 
recent comments that they may be required to go to court regarding this.
I cant consider whats happened after 10 November 2020, when Acromas issued their final 
response, so based on what Ive seen I think Acromas has acted fairly up to that point.
Garage and repair related issues
Looking at the information Ive been provided I dont think it was clear Mr and Mrs C initially 
wanted to use their own repairers. So, although they could have done so, Id have expected 
them to have asked that at the beginning if thats what they wanted.
Ive seen information to show they asked around two weeks after the incident  and, at this 
time, the car had already been transported to Y. I cant see this was pursued at the time  so 
I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs C were, at this time, prepared to accept that. They also 
wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car if theyd gone with their own garage, so I think 
had this been discussed, theyd likely have chosen to stick with Acromas approved repairer 
 as having a courtesy car was very important to them.
I think though their frustration about not being able to use their own garage is perhaps 
magnified by the issues they later experienced. Y clearly didnt carry out the repairs properly, 
due to the amount of issues S found when looking to repair the car. These are points 
Acromas have accepted, but it has said the overall time taken was long in part due to the 
back ordering of parts. It has explained the global supply chain has been affected as a result 
of Covid. But, I dont think Acromas has fully realised the impact here.
I say that because, had Y correctly identified all of the issues, then its likely the repair 
wouldnt have taken as long as it did  as Y would have ordered all the parts needed when 
the car was first passed over to them in June. Instead, S didnt get involved until August, with 
a further delay due to Acromas not properly authorising those repairs until September.
The car was eventually returned in October. So, focusing on that timeline alone, it seems 
reasonable for me to conclude had things been done properly, it may have taken around two 
months for the repairs to be properly carried out.
And, when the car was returned following two inspections by Y, plus an independent 
company appointed by Acromas  further issues were found. The tone of Mr and Mrs Cs 
email when this was discovered I think really sets out the frustration and immense stress 
theyve experienced as a result of this.
Overall, I think these points are worthy of compensation, and Ill come back to this at the 
end.
I cant agree with Mr and Mrs Cs comments about wanting the car being written off though. 
Ive noted their comments came during some of the difficulties they were having after S had 
identified further repair issues following Y having had the car for around two months  so I 
can understand the frustration. But, Acromas policy terms allow them to decide how to settle 
claims. And, the repair costs werent so much that Acromas, under its policy terms, needed 
to write off the car. So, I cant say its done anything wrong on this point. Courtesy car related issues
Ive thought about the state of the first courtesy car. It was provided during the early days of 
Covid, when the true impact was perhaps not as well known as it is now. Ive seen the 
photos of the car which Mr and Mrs C have described as dirty and disgusting which I 
completely agree with. I can see Acromas have accepted this and paid £100 compensation 
for this issue. Ill think about this in the context of all the issues Mr and Mrs C have 
experienced at the end.
In relation to the second courtesy car, I cant agree with the concerns raised. Mr and Mrs C 
have said theyd have expected a bigger car to be provided. But the policy terms say a small 
hatchback is the car that will likely be provided which is what they were given. Ive seen on 
the internal notes that when Mr and Mrs C asked if a larger car was available Acromas 
called Y and were told one wasnt. Given Mr and Mrs C received what was outlined in the 
terms and conditions, and Acromas did see if a larger one was available, I do think its 
treated Mr and Mrs C fairly on this specific point.
Service provided by Acromas
Acromas has accepted its service was poor. Mr and Mrs C have said the service they 
received was so poor its had a lasting impact on them  and theyve referred to awards 
theyre aware are made for lesser issues based on their experience. Ill come back to this 
when thinking about compensation.
I do agree the service has been extremely poor. Its clear from the notes Mr and Mrs C were 
keen to have this matter resolved and called regularly to find out what was going on.
From repairs not being authorised (as Ive mentioned above), to call backs not happening, to 
Acromas not knowing the car had been moved from Y to S, Acromas handling leaves a lot 
to be desired  and Ill be awarding compensation for this.
Premiums
As Ive mentioned above, I understand liability hasnt been resolved yet  and until it has, 
then this claim will show as an open claim, and recorded as a fault. That means an insurer 
may deem Mr and Mrs C a higher risk until the matter is resolved meaning increased 
premiums.
I cant see Mr and Mrs C addressed this complaint to Acromas, so I make no finding on this 
issue and merely provide this for information only.
Compensation
Im genuinely sorry to have seen exactly how much of an impact has happened for Mr and 
Mrs C. The accident Mr C was involved in really cant have been pleasant at all, nor for 
Mrs C to have heard about and had to deal with during this time.
As Ive set out above, I can only compensate Mr and Mrs C for Acromas errors. Having to 
make a claim in itself can be a very stressful experience  and particularly so in the 
circumstances of Mr Cs accident.
Ive summarised the errors Ive found Acromas are responsible for:
Repairs werent carried out properly leading to unreasonable delays
Poor quality of repairs causing further concerns for Mr and Mrs CThe first courtesy car provided was not of a fit standard
The service provided by Acromas has been very poor
Acromas awarded a total of £400 - £100 for the courtesy car and £300 in its response to 
Mr and Mrs C on 10 November 2020. Our Investigator awarded £700 in total  and I agree 
£700 is a fair amount to reflect the issues caused.
I say this because I think several months worth of delays have been caused, during which 
time repairs clearly werent carried out properly. Its very unusual in my experience to see a 
car thats been repaired twice, and inspected, to still have issues. I think thats quite a 
significant failing on Acromas part which, along with the remaining bullet points, mean I think 
its a fair award.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs comments that in their experience far more is awarded for far less. 
I understand their point, but the circumstances theyre talking about are a commercial 
judgement made by institutions about how much theyre prepared to award. My remit is to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Points Ive not considered further
Ive mentioned in this decision some aspects I cant consider. Those are due to the 
application of the rules Im required to apply, meaning I cant consider something unless 
Acromas has had the opportunity to do so already.
As a summary, this means if Mr and Mrs C have concerns over:
Liability after 10 November 2020, they can raise this as a new complaint.
The cost of their insurance premiums, they can raise this as a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint, and require 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C £700 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman