DRN-3432518
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr W complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc was unfair not to port their mortgage and 
refund the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid. They ask that it refunds the ERC. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr W needed to move to another part of the country. Their mortgage with HSBC 
had a fixed interest rate product in place with an ERC payable if the mortgage was repaid 
during the product term. Mrs S and Mr W could avoid paying the ERC if they ported the 
product to a new property. 
Mrs S and Mr W sold their house in September 2021. They repaid their mortgage with HSBC 
and paid an ERC of about £3,700. They made an offer on a property and applied to port the 
mortgage. In mid-November 2021 HSBC said it wouldnt port the product as Mrs S and Mr W 
wanted a 95% loan to value mortgage (where the amount of the loan is 95% of the value of 
the property). HSBC offered 95% mortgages under the Governments mortgage guarantee 
scheme. But it didnt allow customers to port products from previous mortgages to new 
mortgages under the mortgage guarantee scheme.
Mrs S says this is unfair. She says they took out the mortgage on the basis it was portable. 
She says they took out a new mortgage with HSBC and it should refund the ERC. Mrs S 
says they werent told there were caveats to porting and continued with their application to 
HSBC assuming it would resolve their complaint in their favour. She says by the time they 
were told the ERC wouldnt be refunded it was too late to apply to another lender.
In summary, our investigator said HSBC should have told Mrs S and Mr W it couldnt port 
their product to a 95% mortgage in October 2021. However, by that time theyd already sold 
their house and so the outcome wouldnt have been different. He said HSBCs offer of £150 
was fair.
Mrs S and Mr W didnt agree. Mrs S said they hadnt been treated fairly and felt theyd been 
swindled. I have, as Mrs S requested, listened to her call with our investigator where she 
explained why she didnt agree with what the investigator had said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Mr W needed to move to another part of the country. Mrs S told us why they 
needed to relocate and Im very sorry for the circumstances she described. Mrs S and 
Mr Ws needed to move during the term of their fixed interest rate mortgage product. They 
intended to port their product and so avoid the cost of the ERC. 
Mrs S and Mr W sold their house in September 2021 and repaid their mortgage with HSBC. 
They made an offer on a property and in October 2021 contacted HSBC about porting their 
mortgage product and taking out additional borrowing.
HSBC arranged an appointment with a mortgage adviser on 16 November 2021. At this 
point Mrs S and Mr W were told that they couldnt port their mortgage product. This was 
because Mrs S and Mr W were applying for a 95% mortgage, which HSBC offered under the 
Governments mortgage guarantee scheme. 
Mrs S and Mr W took out a new mortgage with HSBC. But as they didnt port their product, 
HSBC didnt refund their ERC.
Was it fair for HSBC to apply the ERC?
The mortgage product Mrs S and Mr W took out in late 2020 included an ERC which was 
payable if the mortgage was repaid before the end of 2022. The amount of the ERC and how 
it was calculated was set out in the mortgage rate switching offer. Mrs S and Mr W repaid 
the mortgage while the product was in place and HSBC applied the ERC, as it was entitled 
to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. I dont think it was incorrect or unfair for 
HSBC to apply the ERC.  
Would it be fair to require HSBC to refund all or part of the ERC?
The mortgage rate switching offer for the product Mrs S and Mr W took out in late 2020 says 
the loan can be transferred to another property. It says this is subject to the new mortgage 
being taken out simultaneously with the repayment of the mortgage, the borrowers financial 
status and HSBCs normal assessment criteria. 
Mrs S and Mr W checked with HSBC that theyd still be able to port if their sale and 
purchase were not simultaneous. They were given correct information about this (that they 
had six months to port). However, the new mortgage they wanted didnt meet HSBCs 
criteria for porting for a different reason.
Mrs S and Mr W wanted a 95% loan to value mortgage. At that time, HSBC offered 95% 
mortgages under the Governments mortgage guarantee scheme. 
The mortgage guarantee scheme was intended to help people buy homes when they only 
had a 5% deposit. HSBC says where it offers a mortgage under the scheme all of the 
borrowing must be on the mortgage guarantee product. This meant Mrs S and Mr W couldnt 
port their interest rate product to a 95% mortgage. HSBC sent evidence of its internal 
lending criteria which supports this. 
I think HSBC applied its criteria correctly when it told Mrs S and Mr W it wouldnt port their 
interest rate product to a 95% mortgage. The error it made was not telling Mrs S and Mr W 
this earlier. I dont think its fair to say HSBC should have told Mrs S and Mr W this before 
October 2021. It didnt know they intended to apply for a 95% mortgage. I think HSBC 
should have told Mrs S she couldnt port to a 95% mortgage when she called in October and 
early November 2021. Mrs S told HSBC during those calls that they wanted to port and that 
they were looking for a 95% mortgage.
In mid-November 2021 HSBC did give Mrs S and Mr W correct information. This presented 
Mrs S and Mr W with a difficult choice. They could proceed with their application for a 95% 
mortgage and accept that they couldnt port and so the ERC wouldnt be refunded. Or they 
could look to apply for a mortgage with a lower loan to value so that they could port  which 
might have meant looking for a different property or increasing their deposit. 
Mrs S and Mr W decided to proceed with their purchase. Mrs S says they expected HSBCs 
complaints team to resolve the complaint in their favour and refund at least some of the 
ERC. I think though they ought reasonably to have known this might not happen. Ive listened to Mrs Ss call with our investigator and I sympathise with the position they were 
in. But porting applications are always subject to meeting the lenders criteria, and the 
mortgage rate switching offer says this. Unfortunately, the 95% mortgage Mrs S and Mr W 
wanted meant they didnt meet HSBC criteria to port their mortgage product. 
Mrs S said by the time she was given correct information it was too late for them to act 
differently. I dont think thats right. Mrs S and Mr W were told they couldnt port to a 95% 
mortgage in mid-November 2021. They could have acted differently at this point.
Mrs S sent an email on 16 November 2021 setting out her complaint and I think she 
understood the problem with porting was due to the new mortgage having a 95% loan to 
value. This was early in the process for their purchase (which Mrs S told HSBC was due to 
complete in January 2022) and the six months porting window. It was Mrs S and Mr Ws 
choice to proceed in the hope that HSBCs complaints team would agree to refund the ERC. 
Putting things right
HSBC did make an error in not telling Mrs S they couldnt port their product to a 95% 
mortgage in late October and early November 2021. This was corrected in mid-November 
2021. Mrs S and Mr W hadnt taken any action between late October and mid-November 
2021 that meant they were legally bound into a sale or purchase. I think £150 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for any upset caused by the delay in giving them this information.
HSBCs mortgage adviser told Mrs S that shed be offered compensation. Mrs Ss view is 
that fair compensation is for HSBC to refund at least some of the ERC. I dont think HSBC 
made an error when it applied the ERC or when it declined to port Mrs S and Mr Ws 
product. I know Mrs S and Mr W will be disappointed. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require HSBC to refund all or part of the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay £150 to Mrs S and Mr W, as it offered to 
do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman