DRN-4386462
The complaint
Mr B complains that Progress Financial Planning Limited (PFP) incorrectly advised him to 
switch his occupational pension scheme into a capped drawdown plan. 
Mr B would now like PFP to put him back into the position that he wouldve been in had it not 
been for their advice.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company but for simplicity, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having come from Mr B.
What happened
In 2013, Mr B sought retirement planning advice from PFP about what to do with his 
occupational money purchase pension plan, as he was approaching the schemes selected 
retirement age of 60. The provider of the plan had written to Mr B explaining that, as hed 
nearly reached his selected retirement age, he had the option of either taking the fund as an 
annuity (which would provide him with a guaranteed income for life), or he could move his 
monies into an income drawdown plan with a third-party provider. The plan provider also 
explained that should Mr B not provide them with his wishes, they would extend his selected 
retirement age by five years to 2018.
In June 2013, PFP issued a suitability letter to Mr B, recommending that he move his 
pension fund to an Aegon capped drawdown plan. PFPs letter explained that theyd reached 
that conclusion because, during their discussions with Mr B, hed explained that he wanted 
to take the tax-free cash from his pension scheme to provide him with the monies to 
purchase shares in his employers share option scheme. In addition, he also wanted to take 
the maximum income permissible from the plan to enable him to recycle the monies back 
into the pension plan to benefit from tax relief. 
Whilst PFPs letter explained that they couldnt give advice to Mr B on his plans for the tax-
free cash investment, he did subsequently take the £9,000 tax free cash from his pension 
fund and invested the monies into his employers share option scheme. The remaining 
monies from the occupational scheme were invested into a managed fund with a balanced 
risk profile. Whilst Mr B originally took the income from the plan in 2013, the following year, 
he opted to switch the income payments off. In June 2016, Mr B switched his pension 
savings out of the balanced fund that PFP had recommended and moved the monies into a 
cash fund. The following year, Mr B then switched his funds again into a cautious fund.
In February 2023, Mr B decided to formally complain to PFP. In summary, he said:
Hed been switched into a pension fund that was less diverse than his existing 
arrangement.
PFP hadnt properly assessed his attitude towards risk (ATR) and it wasnt clear why 
theyd recommended that he take his tax-free cash from the pension.
Switching to a new pension wouldnt provide the longevity and security of an annuity 
when he reached his retirement date.
After reviewing Mr Bs complaint, PFP concluded that, as Mr B had brought his complaint to 
them more than six years after the event being complained about, they werent going to look 
into his concerns. They also went on to state that having considered their original advice, 
they didnt agree that it was unsuitable.
Mr B was unhappy with PFPs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he was unhappy with their decision to time-bar his complaint 
because, he said, he only recently became aware that he had cause for complaint. He felt 
therefore that he had raised his concerns with PFP within the time limits set out by the 
regulator.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Mr Bs 
complaint was one which this service could consider because he didnt believe that the 
events of 2016 and 2017 would have prompted him to believe that something was wrong 
with his pension at those points. He then went on to look at Mr Bs concerns that the original 
advice to switch his pension wasnt appropriate for his needs at the time. After reviewing the 
advice that Mr B was provided, our Investigator explained that whilst he thought PFP 
shouldnt have undertaken the switch, Mr B wouldve more likely than not done so anyway 
and as such, didnt believe the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Bs representative, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they 
said:
PFP were fully aware of the purpose of Mr B wishing to access the tax-free cash. They 
went on to say that the monies were being used to purchase shares in a single company 
in an industry that was prone to be volatile in nature. They also said that despite the fact 
that the investment had turned out to yield positive returns, it wasnt in line with his stated 
ATR.
Had PFP explored funding the share purchase through other options with Mr B, his 
representative says that he wouldnt have needed to access his pension.
They also disputed our Investigator's view that, even if PFP hadnt recommended Mr B 
switch the pension, he wouldve still gone ahead against their advice anyway.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr B had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Mr B then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B and PFP, in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and its largely for the same reasons as our Investigator. Whilst Im not sure I can add a great 
deal more over what our Investigator has already set out, Ill explain why below.
Jurisdiction
Before I go on to explain the reasons behind my decision, I will address PFPs view that Mr 
Bs complaint should be time-barred because, they say, he has raised his concerns outside 
of the timescales allowed for this service to be able to look into his complaint.
I cant look at all of the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that I 
cant look at a complaint made more than six years after the event being complained about  
or (if later) more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, of their cause for complaint. Unless that is, the business being 
complained about agrees. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And in this case, PFP hasnt agreed to 
us considering Mr Bs complaint.
Those rules are in place to protect both the consumer and the business. The relevant time 
limits:
The six-year period and what this means for Mr Bs complaint 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service in April 2023. So, its clear that the complaint has 
been brought more than six years after the event that he is complaining about, which is 
PFPs original advice to switch his pension to the new capped drawdown plan in June 2013.
The three-year period - Does this provide Mr B longer than six years from when the advice 
was provided in order to complain? 
Even though Mr B complained more than six years after the event that hes now complaining 
about, this isnt the end of the matter. This is because the DISP rules can potentially provide 
Mr B with longer than six years to complain, as long as he complains within three years of 
when he was aware, or he ought reasonably to have been aware, that he had cause to. So, 
Ive considered when Mr B was aware, or he ought reasonably to have been aware, that he 
had cause to complain.
When did Mr B become aware that he had cause for complaint?
Ive thought carefully about whether there were any trigger events that should have helped 
Mr B realise that something may not be right with his pension sooner, leading him to the 
point at which he ought to have known that he had cause for complaint.
In June 2016, Mr B switched his Aegon pension funds into cash and then in November 2017, 
his funds were switched into the Scottish Equitable Cautious Core Ptfl ARC fund. PFP say 
that if Mr B was unhappy with their advice in 2013, those two points should have set him on 
a pathway to start the three-year clock ticking. Theyve said that because in his complaint, 
Mr B has explained that the fund that PFP recommended was unsuitable and as such, by 
deciding to switch out of that fund, it shouldve prompted him to complain sooner than 2023. 
However, Im not convinced its as simple as that. And thats because, Mr B has explained 
that he only switched into cash in 2016 to lock in the gains that hed made in his fund. Given 
at that time, he was only two years away from his new selected retirement age of 65, the 
fund had performed reasonably well, and the switch to cash was just before the Brexit vote 
(which followed a period of increased volatility in the markets), so I dont think thats 
unreasonable. But importantly, I dont think that switch would have prompted him to think that something might be wrong with PFPs recommendation, particularly when he was 
locking in gains, rather than looking at loses. In addition, I dont think that undertaking a fund 
switch wouldve given rise to Mr B becoming aware that hed foregone a guaranteed income 
for life, which is the additional complaint point that Mr B has raised.
So, it seems to me that the events in 2016 and 2017 wouldnt have put Mr B on a path of 
discovery that something was wrong with PFPs advice from 2013, and he only became 
aware that there might be a problem with PFPs recommendation when he spoke with the 
claims management company in early 2023. Im therefore satisfied that this complaint falls 
within our jurisdiction and is a case that I can consider.
Having determined that this is a complaint that I can look at, I have gone on to look at Mr Bs 
concerns that the advice he received from PFP to switch his pension wasnt suitable. 
Despite PFPs letter rejecting Mr Bs complaint as being out of time, they did comment that 
they were satisfied his allegations had been made without merit. 
Was the advice to switch Mr Bs occupational pension into the Aegon drawdown plan 
suitable?
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority, published a report and 
checklist on pension switching which set out their findings following a review that theyd 
undertaken. It provided businesses with their expectations when providing pension 
switching advice. The standards, which applied at the time that PFP gave Mr B the advice 
in 2013 (and still apply today) covered four key areas:
1. The loss of benefits in the pension switch without good reason, such as the loss of 
ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take 
benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age.
2. They had switched into a pension where there was a need for ongoing investment 
reviews, but this was not explained, offered, or put in place.
3. They had switched into a pension that did not match their recorded attitude to risk or 
personal circumstances.
4. They had been switched to a pension that was more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without a good reason.
As Ive already explained, at the point Mr B approached PFP for advice on his pension, he 
was nearing his 60th birthday and needed to make a decision on what he wished to do with 
his occupational money purchase scheme. If he didnt take his benefits at that point, the 
plan provider said that they would roll his plan and his selected retirement age forward by 
five years to his 65th birthday.
When Mr B approached PFP, he asked them to limit their advice to purely retirement 
planning and that of his occupational pension scheme. He explained that his priority was to 
extract the maximum tax-free cash that was available from his occupational scheme, to 
allow him to use those funds to purchase shares in his employers share option scheme. As 
he had no need for an income at the point, he wanted to leave the remaining monies 
invested. So, based on the regulators guidance and Mr Bs stated objectives at the time, 
Ive carefully considered whether PFPs recommendation to switch his pension to Aegon 
was appropriate.
Mr Bs existing occupational pension scheme was a money purchase scheme that didnt offer a guaranteed annuity rate, enhanced tax-free cash or matching employer 
contributions and given that he had already reached age 60 and his selected retirement 
age, there was no penalty applied for taking benefits at that time. So, it seems that by 
switching the pension, Mr B didnt lose any valuable features.
In addition, as part of their discussions with Mr B, PFP recommended an ongoing advice 
service to him, levying an ongoing charge of 0.5% for an annual review and more regular 
interactions should he have wanted them. Given Mr B was only five years away from his 
selected retirement age, I think that was a reasonable approach to have taken.
When considering the amount of risk that Mr B was prepared to take with his monies, PFP 
completed an electronic risk scoring questionnaire with him. The result of which determined 
that he was a balanced, or a medium risk investor. Mr Bs representative has stated that 
PFP failed to assess his risk appetite correctly, but having looked at the questionnaire and 
responses to the questions that he answered, Ive no reason to doubt the outcome of that 
assessment, particularly when the software that PFP used was a generic package thats 
widely used across the industry.
In addition, Mr B explained that the fund PFP recommended was unsuitable for his 
circumstances because it was less diverse than his existing fund  however, Im not 
persuaded by that perspective. Thats because the Baillie Gifford fund, like Mr Bs existing 
fund, was actively managed and invested in a broad spectrum of investments across a 
range of different geographical locations. It also held approximately the same 40-85% 
equity content as Mr Bs existing fund, which his representative has claimed was 
appropriate for his needs and he should be placed back into. Whilst there will be 
differences between the two funds because theyre managed by different fund managers, 
theyre broadly similar in nature, and both were balanced risk funds, so it seems the Baillie 
Gifford fund was appropriate for his stated risk profile at that time. Allied to this, Mr Bs 
occupational scheme offered 14 fund choices, whereas the Aegon recommendation 
provided a choice running into the hundreds, so I dont think that he was limiting his 
investment choices by moving to Aegon. To be clear, whilst Mr B may not have needed 
access to such a wide spectrum of funds, nor was it a reason to switch, both he and PFP 
had wider options should they be needed. Importantly, Ive seen nothing to persuade me 
that Mr B was invested in a less diverse investment than he was previously, as a 
consequence of PFPs actions.
PFP undertook a comparison of charges on the new Aegon plan with Mr Bs existing 
occupational scheme. His existing plan had an annual management charge of 1.25% p.a. 
with a bid/offer spread of 6%. The new recommendation had an annual plan charge of 
0.4% and a fund charge of 0.45% (the Baillie Gifford fund that PFP recommended had a 
charge of 1.55% and a discount of 1.1%) and an ongoing advice fee of 0.5%. So, ignoring 
the cost of the ongoing advice which is something that Mr B wasnt paying for previously 
(and isnt a service/cost that hes complained about), that meant he would be paying less 
each year for the new offering. Finally, PFP didnt levy their normal 3% initial cost of advice 
charge, so Mr B appears to have saved costs by moving to the new Aegon arrangement.
Ive thought carefully about PFPs recommendation and the objectives that Mr B set out at 
the start of the advice journey and whether an alternate course of action would have been 
more suitable. PFPs adviser did explore alternative options to the capped drawdown 
recommendation in the suitability letter that they issued to him. Flexible drawdown was 
discounted because Mr Bs pension pot didnt meet the minimum income requirement and 
an annuity wasnt suitable because Mr B explained that he was continuing in work until age 
65, so as a higher rate taxpayer, taking an inflexible income (from an annuity) would be 
unsuitable. In addition, phased retirement was also discounted because of Mr Bs lack of a 
need for any income and his requirement for the maximum amount of tax-free cash at outset. So, the capped drawdown plan appeared attractive to Mr B because he wanted to 
access the maximum tax-free cash available (to fund the share purchase) without having to 
take an ongoing, indefinite income which he didnt need. In addition, it appears that Mr B 
didnt wish to explore using the monies from his other pension, the Self Invested Pension 
Plan, given the nature of its charging structure. It appears that PFP werent able to value it 
given the nature of the property funds it contained.
Mr Bs representative has said that PFP failed to explore other sources of funding to raise 
the monies needed for the employee share option purchase. Theyve said that PFP could 
have suggested Mr B borrow the money from friends to purchase the shares, or re-
mortgage his home. However, after thinking carefully about the practicalities of this, given 
the size of the share purchase and the fact that they needed to be held for in excess of 
three years, I think its likely that most consumers would feel uncomfortable approaching 
friends to borrow such an amount, and thats assuming that they knew someone who was 
in a position to do so. Also, whilst borrowing rules vary from lender to lender, I well suspect 
that given Mr B needed only £9,000 for the employees share scheme, that would put him 
below many lenders minimum further advance level. Even if that was an option, from what 
Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been appropriate for PFP to 
recommend that he secure debt on his primary residence to undertake an investment in 
single company shares. I also think that, if Mr B had £9,000 at his disposal at the time, its 
unlikely that he wouldve felt the need to seek advice from PFP to extract monies form his 
pension.
Mr B has explained that he used the tax-free cash of around £9,000 from his pension to 
purchase shares in his employers share option scheme, later selling them in March and 
November 2017 for around £15,500  a return of approximately 72%. Mr Bs representative 
has said that PFP were fully aware that Mr B wanted to use his tax-free cash to purchase 
these shares and have highlighted that they were in a single company, in an industry that 
was prone to be volatile in nature. They also said that despite the fact that the investment 
had turned out to yield positive returns, it wasnt in line with his stated ATR, so they were of 
the view that PFP should have advised Mr B against this course of action. I dont think 
theres any doubt that PFP werent aware of Mr Bs wishes or his intentions for the tax-free 
cash, as theyve clearly detailed his plans within the suitability report that they sent him. 
They went on to say in the letter that they werent providing any advice on what he was 
doing with the tax-free cash and that was his decision  but I dont think its as simple as 
that. 
By facilitating the switch, PFP were knowingly enabling Mr B to invest in an investment that 
they knew to be outside of his balanced risk appetite. PFP failed to challenge Mr B on the 
drawbacks of his plan, and I think that they could have been clearer in both their letter and 
interactions with him that such an endeavour wasnt in his best interests, particularly 
because the purchase of the shares would result in investing his monies in an area that was 
well above his stated risk profile. PFP werent there just to transact what Mr B asked of 
them; when they became aware of Mr Bs plans for the tax-free cash and had established his 
attitude to risk, they should have advised him against the switch.
However, having thought carefully about this, I well suspect that even if PFP hadnt 
recommended that Mr B switch the pension, releasing the tax-free cash and thereby allowing 
him to purchase the employees share options, I think its more likely than not, that Mr B 
wouldve still gone ahead with the switch anyway - Ill explain why.
Ive not been persuaded that Mr B was the inexperienced investor that his representative 
suggests, or that he was going into the transaction with his eyes closed. Its evident from 
PFPs suitability report to Mr B, that he had previous experience and reasonable knowledge 
of investments, as hed purchased investments and pensions in the past. The letter also goes on to state that he has been comfortable with fluctuations in the value of his 
investments previously. This is backed up by the fact that he holds a SIPP, which the 
suitability report suggests contains property and other risk-based assets, and the 
responses to the ATR questionnaire which confirms that he has taken risk with his financial 
decisions in the past. And when asked how much confidence he has in his ability to make 
good financial decisions, he responded with a reasonable amount.
Ive also seen evidence that Mr B isnt a passive investor and has made active decisions 
about what to do with his investments  for example, it was him, rather than PFP, who 
asked for his funds to be switched into cash prior to the Brexit vote and it was Mr B again 
that then moved the monies into a cautious fund the following year, prior to reaching his 
selected retirement age. 
When comparing the heavily discounted option price that Mr Bs employer offered their 
shares at to the average share price of the stock throughout 2013, I can see why Mr B 
likely found the investment opportunity attractive. As Ive already explained, he made a 
return on the shares of around 72%, so it turned out to be a good investment. Importantly 
though, it was Mr B that also made the active decision to later sell those shares in 2017 to 
lock in the gains that hed made, as he said he didnt want to risk the share price falling.
So, when I consider his actions in the years that followed PFPs advice, it seems clear to 
me that Mr B very much understood the concept of risk versus reward and reacted to 
market events accordingly. And, I think that had PFP declined to act for him in the switch of 
the pension, he wouldve more likely than not found another way of proceeding with the 
transaction, such as through an insistent customer basis. Whilst Mr Bs representative has 
stated that they doubt very much that Mr B wouldve been aware of what an insistent 
customer process was back then, I well suspect had he pressed PFP, they wouldve 
explained that alternative pathway to him.
Summary
I think PFP should have done more to educate Mr B about his proposed course of action 
earlier in their interactions, and I think they should have been clear that purchasing the 
shares in 2013 wasnt in line with his stated attitude to risk. However, as Ive already 
explained, it seems to me that Mr B already had his mind set that this was a path he 
wanted to follow given the attractiveness of his employers share scheme offer and as 
such, I think that even if PFP had cautioned against the transaction, he wouldve more 
likely than not found an alternative way of proceeding anyway.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and as such, I do not require Progress Financial Planning 
Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman