DRN-3632652
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of T, complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd unfairly declined a 
claim Ts business protection insurance policy.
What happened
T has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr M made a claim on that
policy to cover Ts losses arising out of its closure from March 2020 due to the
national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19.
China Taiping declined the claim because it said T didnt have cover for the losses it was 
claiming for. 
Mr M doesnt agree. He says this is unfair as T is covered for other diseases so it should 
also cover Covid-19. He also feels that T was forcibly closed and couldnt trade because of 
the government imposed lockdown so T shouldnt lose out on months of sales as a result.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She
said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation T found
itself in. Mr M doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on Ts 
business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover T is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. 
The starting point is to consider the specific policy T took out. As such Ive considered 
every aspect of the policy T holds with China Taiping to determine whether there are any 
sections that would require China Taiping to meet the claim like the one T is making.
Mr M has told us that T wasnt able to operate as it normally would have due to the 
government-imposed lockdown.
The policy provides cover for several things, including specified illnesses, damage and 
prevention of access. Ive considered each of them below.
Specified Illnesses
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the term that 
relates to specified illnesses. That section covers:
Interruption of or interference with your business as insured by this Section shall be
deemed to include any organism that is likely to cause a Specified Illness at the
premises
Specified Illness is defined as illness sustained by any person or persons resulting from 
any of the following human infectious or contagious diseases: Mumps, Malaria, Yellow 
Fever, Acute Encephalitis, Chickenpox, Cholera, Scarlet Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping 
Cough, Tuberculosis, Smallpox, Dysentery, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Diphtheria, 
Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Meningococcal Infection, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Tetanus and Typhoid Fever
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides T with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something China 
Taiping might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. Ts policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are 
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover 
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and 
effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are 
many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover. And although Ive considered that 
the policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont think it can or should fairly be read 
as covering any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
For the sake of completeness, Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive considered his point that 
the policy should provide cover in uncertain circumstances such as this. And I agree that 
there are policies that would have provided cover for things like a pandemic but this isnt 
one of them. Generally, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for us to require a business to 
fund a claim for risks it hasnt envisaged- whether or not those risks are unpredictable. And 
whilst I appreciate that Mr M couldnt have predicted that T might need pandemic cover, 
China Taiping cant be held responsible for not covering a claim where the policy doesnt 
provide for it. 
Damage
The business interruption cover under this policy states: 
If any property belonging to you, or for which you are legally responsible at the premises for 
the purpose of your business 
(1) suffers damage as a result of an incident during the period of insurance and 
(2) in consequence your business as carried on by you at the premises suffers business 
interruption as defined below 
the company will indemnify you for 
(a) loss resulting in business interruption
Incident is defined as damage to property at the premises owned by you, or for which you 
are legally responsible and used for the purpose of the business and which is insured
by Section 1  Contents and/or Section 11  Buildings of this policy.
Damage is defined as physical loss destruction or damage 
Nothing in that section extends to damage caused to the business itself by way of a 
Specified Illness, as defined by the policy or any other diseases such as Covid 19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to damage to property which is defined as 
Items of property described in the schedule. Whilst it might have led to a significant loss 
in revenue, Im not persuaded that Covid 19 caused any damage to Ts property. So, I dont 
think cover is available under this section of the policy.
Prevention of Access 
Ive also considered this section of the policy which covers Interruption of or interference 
with your business in consequence of damage to property in the vicinity of the premises 
which shall prevent or hinder the use of the premises or access thereto, whether your 
property at the premises shall be damaged or not.
This section of the policy doesnt extend to the claim that T is making because T wasnt 
closed in consequence of damage to property. That doesnt mean the damage needs to be 
to Ts property, but rather to property in the vicinity of Ts premises. As Covid-19 wasnt 
something that caused damage to property in the vicinity of T, I cant say this section affords 
any cover. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think China Taiping acted unfairly by 
turning down Ts claim for cover. I know Mr M feels that the policy shouldve covered T 
and that this decision will be disappointing for him, but I hope Ive provided a thorough 
explanation of why it doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint about China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022. 
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman