DRN-2614519
The complaint
M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
M is represented by its director, Mr H. He said hed paid more into cash deposit wallets than 
Barclays had credited to Ms account. Hes also unhappy about how Barclays handled 
things.
 
What happened
 M has a business account with Barclays and makes use of a service offered to businesses 
which allows cash to be deposited without having to wait in branch for deposits to be 
checked. The service allows customers to place cash into bar-coded , self-seal, tamper proof 
wallets, and then deposit the wallet at any branch. The wallets are then checked by Barclays 
processing centre. And Barclays credit the customers account the same or the next working 
day. The banks processing centre then check the wallets and if there are any discrepancies 
it adjusts the customers account. 
On 11 December 2019 Mr H placed an amount of money into a wallet with a seal ending 851 
and deposited it.  Mr H said the bag contained £2,670.00. But when it was opened and 
counted at Barclays processing centre the wallet was found to contain only £2,470.00 - 
£200.00 short. As the £2,670.00 amount had already been credited to Ms account, Barclays 
debited the account by £200. 
On 12 December 2019 Mr H made another deposit using a wallet with a seal ending 767. 
Mr H said the wallet contained £4,950.00. But on checking at the processing centre it was 
found to contain only £4,880.00 - £70 short. As such, a debit of £70.00 was made to Ms 
account to correct the discrepancy.
Mr H says he counted the money he placed in the wallets himself. And checked the amounts 
carefully before sealing the bags and writing the amounts on each bag along with his contact 
number. He thinks the bank has made an error and wants the CCTV footage of the 
processing centre checked. He also unhappy that the bank didnt let him know there was a 
discrepancy despite him putting his telephone number on the bags and took too long to 
process the wallets. Mr H says he had to make several phone calls to try and find out what 
was happening and why Ms account balance was different, all of which caused him a great 
deal of inconvenience and worry. He wants the bank to refund M the £270 and pay 
compensation for the trouble hes been caused.
Barclays investigated and contacted its cash processing centre. It provided the bank with 
evidence that the wallets Mr H had deposited contained less cash than what Mr H had said 
was in them. So, it had corrected Ms account to reflect the discrepancies. It also said that 
Mr H hadnt been registered to use the service, so the bank didnt contact him, and it had 
processed the wallets within the time frame set out in the terms and conditions which was 8 
days.
Mr H wasnt happy with the banks response. He maintains he hadnt made an error when he 
counted the money before putting it in the wallets. And he wants the bank to provide CCTV 
to back up what it had said. 
An investigator looked into Ms complaint. She asked Mr H and Barclays for more 
information about the money in the wallets. Barclays said it no longer had any CCTV of its 
processing centre and provided a breakdown of the notes in each wallet, which showed the 
amounts in each of them was less than Mr H had said. Based on this information she said 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it debited Ms account £270. But she thought the 
bank couldve provided Mr H with better service,  in particular that it should have explained 
things better at the time. So, she said Barclays should pay Mr H £100. 
Barclays agreed with what the investigator said. Mr H didnt. He wants the bank to refund M 
£270. Hes said he was worried about his business and the impact the discrepancy might 
have on future audits of his business, which caused him anxiety and stress. So, he wants 
more compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, as it is here, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays obtained from the processing centre to help me 
determine what happened. The records show that wallet 767 contained the following 
breakdown of notes: £50 x 29,  £20 x 128, and £10 x 87 making a total of £4,880. The 
discrepancy was due to £100 short in the £50s and £30 over in the £10s. Wallet 851 
contained £50 x 19, £20 x 71, £10 x 100 making a total of £2,470. The £200 discrepancy 
was due to a shortage in the £20s. Given this evidence, in particular that wallet 767 had 
more £10s than Mr H had said, on balance I think its more likely that Mr H has miscounted 
the money he placed in the wallets and that there was an overall £270 shortfall. So, I cant 
say the bank did anything wrong when it debited this amount from Ms account once it had 
been notified of the discrepancy.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration and I appreciate that hes adamant he placed more 
money in the wallets. But I havent seen further evidence about the amount of cash he 
deposited. I know Mr H wanted to view the CCTV footage. And that might have helped to 
resolve things and its unfortunate that its no longer available. So, Ive had to base my 
decision on the evidence I do have. 
I know Mr H is also upset that Barclays uses a processing centre to check the wallets 
deposited by customers. And says he wasnt aware this was how the bank did things. But as 
part of its business model Barclays has processes in place to check the amount of cash 
deposited by its customers. We are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell them how to 
run their businesses , or how to design or implement their processes. Barclays contracts a 
separate processing centre to check cash deposits - thats how it runs its business  and we 
cant interfere with its commercial decisions.Ive gone on to consider the customer service Barclays provided to Mr H. I can see he made 
several phone calls to the bank over a number of days to try and find out why Ms account 
had been credited with less money, which took him away from running his business. And 
whilst I acknowledge Mr H wasnt registered for the cash deposit service, he did write his 
contact details on each of the wallets, so I think the bank couldve let him know about the 
discrepancy at the time. So, its understandable that he was worried when he saw his bank 
account had less money than he thought hed deposited. 
I note he was also given different explanations each time he called the bank to find out what 
had happened. So, I can understand why the banks service here would have caused him 
frustration and confusion. He was clearly worried about the implications for his business and 
Barclays handling of the situation would have only added to that. So, I agree with the 
investigator that £100 is fair and reasonable compensation to pay in reflection of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr H 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above I partly uphold Mr Hs complaint. To put things right 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H £100 for its poor communication.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman