DRN-2942045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy because Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not reimburse the 
money they transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were in the process of buying an apartment abroad for their daughter. Mr Rs 
daughter was in regular contact with her appointed solicitor. The seller of the apartment was 
British and had a British bank account, so an agreement was reached to pay completion 
funds in to the sellers UK bank account to avoid paying for the apartment in euros and 
converting to sterling. The deposit had been paid in euros. 
At the end of November 2019 Mr and Mrs Rs daughter received an email she thought her 
solicitor abroad had sent. She now knows the email was sent by a scammer. The email was 
in response to an email Mr and Mrs Rs daughter had sent asking when the completion 
funds were due. The email said there had been a development and asked if the transfer 
could be made that week. This meant paying the balance for the apartment around a week 
earlier than previously agreed. After checking the position in respect of tax clearance and 
agreeing that she would receive the keys to the apartment when the funds were transferred 
Mr and Mrs Rs daughter agreed to make the payment early. 
The scammer provided emails which appeared to be from the sellers solicitor confirming the 
request to bring forward the completion date. Mr and Mrs Rs daughter was also provided 
with payment details for a UK bank account. Mr R was with his daughter abroad when she 
received the payment request. As he was making the payment for his daughter, he decided 
to initially make a test payment of £50 by mobile banking to check the funds were going to 
the right account. Mr R says he often did this when he made larger payments. Soon after Mr 
and Mrs Rs daughter received email confirmation the payment had been received and so Mr 
R called Santander to make the remaining payment of £69,515 to the same account details 
as previously.  
In his first call to Santander Mr R explained he was buying a property abroad and had 
already made a payment of £50 which he thought would make it easier to make the next 
payment. The adviser explained that it was really important to find out the reason for the 
payment so that Santander could offer the right support. She went on to say,
If youve received an invoice, bank account or payment details by email, this could
be a scam. Criminals can hack email accounts or spoof email addresses to redirect
funds to fraudulent accounts for large purchases such as this. We suggest you
always check the payment details by phone or in person before you transfer. Are you
comfortable with this new payment?
Mr R confirmed that he was comfortable with the payment. The advisor explained to Mr R 
that as the payment was for a large amount, hed receive a call back to process it. Mr R then 
received a call from Santanders fraud department. I have set out below relevant parts of this 
call:
Santander: I know my colleague will have gone over this with you anyway but the reason 
sometimes you have to go through this process is weve seen a rise in scams also a rise in 
fraud so sometimes just need to make sure everythings OK. Erm, not to be intrusive not to 
sort of put a hiccup in your day or anything like that its just to make sure that with larger 
amounts like this once a payments been made you see it cannot be cancelled, recalled or 
amended so if its done right first timeSo the payment itself if you dont mind me asking, 
what would the payment be for?
Mr R: Its to purchase an apartment and the address is actually [address]
Santander: Right, OK, excellent. And the apartment itself, youve been to the location, have 
you seen it are you happy with what you would be purchasing?
Mr R: Yes, everythings been done through solicitors in [name of country] and its just the 
lady lives in the UK, Ive got the money in the UK so to save transferring to euros and then 
back to pounds were just doing it direct to her, so all this has gone through solicitors today.
Santander: Right, OK, excellent. Erm, it is just sometimes like with property or with cars 
people purchase it without seeing it which is always a little bit dangerous, but if you know the 
apartment, youve seen it and youre happy with it. Youve got no reservations whatsoever in 
relation to this?
Mr R: None at all, no
Santander: OK, and its not someone youve just recently met or anything like that? Apart 
from the fact it would be
Mr R: No its through an estate agent and its been going on for about the last six or eight 
weeks.
Santander: Right, OK. That is fine. As I said earlier the reason we do it is just to make sure 
nothings happening because we know people can be tricked in to making a payment or 
sometimes can get forced in to doing it or they get told what to say to us on the phone. So 
nothing like thats happening with yourself?
Mr R: Nope, not at all. Nothing at all. 

Santander: The reason I ask these questions is just to make sure everythings present and 
correct because as Ive said earlier once its been made it cannot be cancelled, recalled or 
amended so preventions better than cure.
Mr R: I totally agree
Santander: So were just getting this sorted out for you now. What Im going to do is make 
this payment.The systems just prompted me to ask a couple more questions to be honest 
with you. I think Ive got most of them anyway but Ill just do it anyway, so have you been 
contacted by anyone claiming to be from the bank, police or anyone else and asking to move 
money?
Mr R: No
Santander: Have you been contacted by email, fax or invoice and asked to make a 
payment?
Mr R: NSantander: Have you been cold called and offered any investment products?
Mr R: No
Santander: Have you been asked to make a payment by someone who youve just recently 
met?
Mr R: No
Santander: OK, that is no problem. As I say I pretty much covered all of that anyway didnt I 
but it just came up to ask them so Ive just done that.
Mr R: I mean I know these are normally recorded Im more than happy with the security, I 
havent got a problem with that
Mr R made the payment on 28 November 2019. When he hadnt received confirmation that 
his second payment had been received by the following morning, he contacted the estate 
agent abroad. The estate agent knew nothing about the payment and told Mr R hed been 
the victim of a scam, so Mr R contacted Santander to report it.
What Santander say
Santander were able to recover £3.20 from the receiving bank but didnt agree to refund Mr 
and Mrs Rs losses. It said it provided effective warnings both online and in two telephone 
conversations and advised Mr R to check the details by phone or in person, but he chose not 
to do so. Santander also said that it relies on customers answering their questions correctly. 
Mr R said he hadnt received the invoice by email and so Santander didnt provide any 
additional advice about email intercept scams. Santander say that Mr R was twice advised 
that emails can be hacked or spoofed and to check the details before payment so even if 
further advice had been given in the second call Mr R would have gone ahead with the 
payment anyway.
Santander paid Mr R £75 to reflect the fact he didnt receive calls when expected. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 July 2021. In my provisional findings section I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Santander should have refunded the money 
Mr and Mrs R lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Santander should in any event have intervened when the second payment of 
£69,515 was made as the payment was unusual and out of character for 
Mr and Mrs R and if it had done so, I am satisfied the fraud would have come to light 
and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Santander should fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Mr and Mrs R lost.Mr and Mrs R have been deprived of the funds and the opportunity to purchase the 
property. Its clear they would have used the funds as a final payment for the property 
had the scam not happened. So, I think its fair and reasonable that they should be 
awarded 8% simple interest per year on the funds they lost. In respect of the initial 
payment of £50 the interest should run from the date Santander declined their claim 
under the Code to the date of settlement. Interest on the balance should run from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement. 
I have carefully considered Santanders representations about the warnings it gave.  But 
they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular, Im not persuaded that Mr 
and Mrs R failed to take the requisite level of care required for Santander to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met and will explain why. 
Online payment warning
When Mr R made the first £50 payment he selected the payment reason as Property or 
large purchase and was provided with the following mini-warning,
If you received an invoice or bank account details by email, this could be a scam. 
Underneath this was a Continue button and on the next screen a full warning was 
displayed as follows,
Could this be a payment redirection scam?
Criminals often attempt to intercept emails and send you false bank account details. These 
emails often look genuine. Please take a minute to double-check the payment details by 
phone or in person  this could save your money from being lost or stolen. 
If youre at all nervous, or youve been told to use this payment reason, please cancel 
and call us now.
Mr R has told this service that he recalls seeing the mini warning, but not the full warning. He 
explained that the emails requesting payment looked like they came from a genuine 
address, so he wasnt concerned when he saw the warning. 
To meet the requirements in the Code of an Effective Warning it must, as a minimum, be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. I dont consider the warning met all of 
these requirements. 
The bold heading is clearly meant to draw attention to the warning, but Im not persuaded 
the average customer would know what a payment redirection scam is and so wouldnt 
understand what they were being asked.  So theres a real risk a customer would move 
forward without reading the remainder of the warning. Even if a customer were to read the 
wording beneath the heading, it says the emails can look genuine. I dont think this 
description goes far enough to explain just how sophisticated this type of fraud can be. For 
example, it doesnt explain that a fraudster is able to send emails from the genuine senders 
email address or that these emails can be embedded in a legitimate email chain  as a result 
I dont think the risk is made clear enough and the warning therefore lacks impact. 
The warning also contains a sentence in bold at the end which again, is presumably 
intended to grab the customers attention but in doing so a customer might think they should 
feel nervous if this is a scam  in fact, most customers affected by this scam do not feel 
nervous as they are expecting to make a payment and often everything looks legitimate.Overall, I consider the warning isnt clear and lacks impact. In the circumstances I consider 
Mr R acted reasonably in continuing to make the first payment of £50 and that he didnt 
ignore an effective warning. 
Warning provided in Mr Rs first call to Santander
After Mr R had confirmed the reason for the payment of £69,515 he was provided with the 
following warning:
If youve received an invoice, bank account or payment details by email, this could
be a scam. Criminals can hack email accounts or spoof email addresses to redirect
funds to fraudulent accounts for large purchases such as this. We suggest you
always check the payment details by phone or in person before you transfer. Are you
comfortable with this new payment?
Im not persuaded the warning given to Mr R was as impactful. In reaching this conclusion 
Im mindful that:
the Santander adviser only suggested that he contact the solicitor abroad. While I 
appreciate a bank cant force a customer to take additional steps, by suggesting a 
course of action in my view Santander put forward an idea for consideration rather 
than making it clear that the only way a customer could protect themselves from this 
type of scam was to call the solicitor. I dont consider suggest is a strong enough 
word to use to enable a customer, or Mr R, to recognise the risk. 
The warning didnt sufficiently bring to life what a scam of this nature looks like or the 
sophisticated nature of the scam  such as that a fraudster is able to convincingly 
impersonate a recognised contact (such as a solicitor) by intercepting a chain of 
emails, or sending an email from an email address which is the same as, or almost 
identical to, the genuine email address. While the warning does explain fraudsters 
can spoof email addresses, Im not persuaded the average customer would 
understand the scam risk identified to be as sophisticated as Ive described. 
Even were I to have found the warning met the requirements of an effective warning under 
the CRM Code, I still dont consider the exception should apply to Mr R. Had the warning 
met the effective warning requirements, Santander would need to establish that Mr R had 
failed to take appropriate action in response  or in other words that Mr R failed to act 
reasonably in response to the warning. Im not persuaded Santander has established this. 
I say this because by the time Mr R received the verbal warning in the call, hed already 
received the account details from his daughter and made a £50 payment. He thought his 
daughters solicitor had confirmed receipt of this payment so he didnt appreciate the 
warning Santander provided could also apply to the payment hed already made. As the 
account details for the larger payment of £69,515 were exactly the same as when he made 
the £50 payment, Mr R believed they were correct. Given the reassurance he felt as a result 
of making the initial payment, and taking into account some of the shortcomings of the 
warning as Ive set out above, Im satisfied Mr R believed he had no reason to check the 
payment details. 
And Im mindful Mr R told the Santander call handler hed already made a payment of £50 to 
the solicitor and he hoped thatd make things easier  presumably because the larger 
payment would now be going to an existing payee. In my view there was a real opportunity 
here for Santander to ask him some bespoke questions about this to establish how hed 
checked this payment had been received by the solicitor. Instead Santander relied on a script which meant for the most part that there were no bespoke questions asked, and based 
on the content of the discussion it would seem as though Santander also took some comfort 
from the fact Mr Rs previous payment of £50 had been received by the solicitor without 
considering the fact a fraudster mightve confirmed receipt. The call had a tone of going 
through the motions. So overall, for the reasons Ive explained, even if the warning was 
effective, Im not persuaded Mr R failed to take appropriate action in response to it.
Second phone call with Santanders fraud department
Despite having confirmed the payment reason with Mr R, most of this phone call provided 
warnings and asked questions relating to completely different scams. Mr R has explained 
that he thought the purpose of the call was to confirm it was him who was making the call 
rather than someone impersonating him, and he didnt realise that the aim was to check the 
payment details were genuine. 
In the call Mr R was asked a series of questions about the reason for the payment and to 
identify common types of scam. The question most relevant to the scam Mr R was affected 
by was: 
Have you been contacted by email, fax or invoice and asked to make a payment?
I understand why Santander asked this question but there is no context and no link to a 
specific type of scam to help the customer to understand the reason for the question and the 
importance of it. The words, and asked to make a payment could also lead a customer to 
believe they were being asked about an unexpected payment request, particularly given the 
context of the other questions that were asked.
Mr R cant recall giving a negative response but has explained that it may be because it was 
his daughter that had received the email and they were both satisfied at the time the details 
were genuine, or as explained above, it might be because Mr R didnt think the question was 
relevant to his circumstances. So in the circumstances of this case I think its understandable 
Mr R answered as he did and didnt appreciate the importance of the question. In any event, 
the Santander advisor knew Mr R was buying a property abroad and so receiving account 
details by email was likely. But he didnt ask Mr R how he received the account details. Had 
he have done so I see no reason why Mr R wouldnt have explained that his daughter 
received the payment details by email, and he was with her at the time.
Overall, I dont think any of the warnings given were impactful or went far enough to be 
effective. And Im persuaded Mr R acted reasonably in all the circumstances by moving past 
the warnings he was given.
Could Santander have done anything else to prevent the scam, bearing in mind good 
industry practice at the time and considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the case?
In addition, Santander ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. Santander 
recognised that this payment was unusual for Mr R, as well as the risk associated with it, but 
(as Ive already set out) failed to adequately explain that risk or ask appropriate questions  
such as how Mr R got the payment details. 
Im satisfied that some further questions by the advisors Mr R spoke to, such as, Since 
receiving the invoice have you called your solicitor on a known number to check that the 
payment details are correct? or asking how Mr R was satisfied the initial payment of £50 
had been received, alongside an impactful explanation of why this was important and the 
prevalence of this type of scam, fully bringing it to life, would have reasonably led Mr R or his daughter to contact the solicitor by phone to check the account details. I consider that there 
was an increased risk of fraud in this case because of the arrangement to pay the seller 
directly rather than through Mr and Mrs Rs appointed solicitor abroad. Because of this 
Santander should have asked how Mr R, or his daughter, was provided with the payment 
details. 
Im satisfied Mr R wouldve told Santander the truth  that the details had come via email  
and had he done so Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have explained that the email 
may have come from a third party to access his funds fraudulently so he or his daughter 
should call the solicitor directly on a known number to check the payment details. Had that 
happened, Im persuaded its more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and 
Mr and Mrs Rs loss would have been prevented. 
The relevance of this finding is that Santander ought to have prevented the loss, rather than
just reimbursed Mr and Mrs R under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows Santander 
should pay Mr and Mrs R interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to 
refund them under the CRM Code. 
Santander has offered to pay Mr and Mrs R £75 for its customer service. But the entire 
experience has clearly been very distressing for Mr and Mrs R. They were unable to go 
through with the house purchase when they expected to and have been without a significant 
amount of money for quite some time.
Im conscious its the fraudsters, rather than Santander that have ultimately caused Mr and 
Mrs Rs loss, but Santander should, at least, have refunded the loss under the provisions of 
the CRM Code. Im also persuaded Santander should have prevented the scam altogether. 
Had it done so, much of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs R would have 
been avoided. Santander accept there were service failings in that Mr R didnt receive 
expected calls but, for the reasons outlined, I think it should pay a further £175 in
compensation (making a total of £250 after taking into account the £75 already offered in 
respect of the service provided).
Putting things right
Overall, Im persuaded that Santander should have reimbursed Mr and Mrs R under the 
provisions of the CRM Code. Im not satisfied Santander has established Mr and Mrs R
ignored effective warnings by failing to take appropriate action and in turn failed to meet their
requisite level of care. 
In the circumstances, I think Santander should now fairly and reasonably compensate
Mr and Mrs R by refunding the £69,565 they lost as a result of the scam plus interest and 
£250 compensation as set out below.
Mr and Mrs R agreed with my provisional decision but noted theyd been able to go ahead 
with the purchase of the apartment abroad but were left with little by way of savings. 
Santander agreed to refund the funds lost in the scam as well as interest and the distress 
and inconvenience payment. But it said it was unclear if I was holding Santander liable under 
the CRM Code or determined that no one is to blame. Santander said it didnt accept any 
responsibility as it hadnt made any errors and it didnt agree that it didnt provide a warning 
during the payment journey. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision 
(reproduced above), and for the same reasons. Neither party has raised anything that 
changes my mind.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to:
- Refund Mr and Mrs R the full £69,565 lost to the scam less any sum recovered and 
refunded to Mr and Mrs R;
- Pay interest on the £50 payment at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date the 
bank declined the fraud claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement;
- Pay interest on the remaining £69,515 at the rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date the money left the account to the date of settlement; and,
- Pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs 
R (less any sum already paid). 
If Santander is legally required to deduct tax from the interest award it should send Mr and 
Mrs R a tax deduction certificate so they can claim it back from HMRC as appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman