DRN-3543889
The complaint
Mr H complains that British Friendly Society Limited has turned down a claim he made on an 
income protection policy.
Mr H is represented by his broker, who Ill call Mr A.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr H applied for a Breathing Space personal income protection policy 
through his broker. The policy was intended to protect Mr Hs self-employed occupation and 
provided a weekly benefit of £230.77 for up to two years, following a 13-week deferred 
period. At application, Mr H disclosed that hed had arthritis in his shoulders, which had 
resulted in a partial shoulder replacement and that he had arthritis in his big toe.
British Friendly initially declined to offer Mr H any cover due to his existing conditions. 
However, Mr A appealed and so British Friendly agreed to review the application. It 
ultimately agreed to offer Mr H a policy, but it applied medical exclusions to its cover terms. 
One of those exclusions said:
No benefit shall be payable under this policy for any illness or disability directly or indirectly 
due to osteoarthritis, arthritis or any related treatment or surgery.
Mr H agreed to British Friendlys cover offer and the policy began on 8 July 2019.
Unfortunately, Mr H began to suffer from hip and knee pain. Diagnostic tests showed that Mr 
H had severe osteoarthritis in his right hip, and he was unable to work from December 2020 
onwards. He was seen by a consultant orthopaedic surgeon in January 2021, who felt that 
Mr H needed hip replacement surgery. And in March 2021, Mr H made an incapacity claim 
on the policy.
British Friendly turned down the claim. It reviewed the available medical evidence and 
concluded that Mr Hs claim arose because of osteoarthritis, which it had specifically 
excluded from cover.
Mr H was unhappy with British Friendlys decision and so Mr A asked us to look into this 
complaint. Mr A felt that when British Friendly had communicated the terms of the exclusions 
it intended to apply to Mr Hs policy, itd suggested that the exclusion wouldnt apply to any 
arthritis in Mr Hs lower limbs which wasnt related to his existing arthritis. So Mr A felt the 
cover terms had been ambiguous at best.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She felt that based on 
the available medical evidence, British Friendly had been entitled to conclude that Mr Hs 
claim was excluded from cover. And she didnt think that British Friendly had given Mr A 
ambiguous or unclear information about the relevant exclusion ahead of Mr H deciding to 
take out the policy. So she didnt think British Friendly needed to pay Mr Hs claim.
Mr A disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He felt the inclusion of the word his 
when British Friendly had referred to Mr Hs arthritis meant his existing arthritis. And so he 
and Mr H had believed arthritis in Mr Hs lower limbs would be covered. If British Friendly 
had intended to exclude all claims for arthritis, then Mr A queried why it had referred to Mr 
Hs lower limbs at all. He pointed to evidence from Mr As consultant orthopaedic surgeon 
which stated that Mr Hs osteoarthritis in his hip couldnt be definitively linked to arthritis in 
his shoulders or toes. Mr A said a major factor in Mr H deciding to take out the policy had 
been that hed understood hed be covered for lower limb arthritis.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think it was fair for British Friendly to 
turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Hs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether British Friendly 
treated him fairly.
It's clear that Mr A feels strongly that British Friendly acted unreasonably when it turned 
down Mr Hs claim. It seems to me that he believes British Friendly provided unclear, unfair 
or misleading information about the extent of policy cover ahead of Mr H deciding to proceed 
with the policy. This would contravene its regulatory obligations. In deciding this complaint 
then, Ive taken into account both the actual policy contract and the communications Mr A 
had with British Friendly ahead of policy inception. 
The policy terms
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with British Friendly. Section 5.7 of the policy document sets out circumstances in 
which British Friendly wont pay benefit. One of these states that British Friendly wont pay 
benefit:
in respect of any condition excluded by the special terms applicable to your policy.
So Ive turned to Mr Hs policy schedule to consider what special terms British Friendly had 
applied to his policy. This says:
The following will be excluded from your policy meaning that you will be unable to claim 
from this condition
No benefit shall be payable under this policy for any illness or disability directly or indirectly 
due to osteoarthritis, arthritis or any related treatment or surgery.
No benefit shall be payable under this policy for any illness or disability directly or indirectly 
due to any injury to or disorder of the spine, including cervical spine, intervertebral discs, 
nerve roots, cauda equina, spinal cord or supporting musculature and ligaments or related 
treatment or surgery.
No benefit shall be payable under this policy for any illness or disability directly or indirectly 
due to any injury, disease or disorder of the upper limbs including the hands, wrists, arms, 
elbows and shoulders.In my view, the special conditions applied to Mr Hs policy make it clear that British Friendly 
had specifically excluded any claims relating to, amongst other things, osteoarthritis and 
arthritis. I dont think the wording of this clause suggests that the exclusion doesnt apply to 
Mr Hs lower limbs or that a further arthritis diagnosis in a new joint will only be excluded if 
its directly linked to an existing arthritis diagnosis. So Ive next considered whether I think 
the medical evidence supports British Friendlys conclusion that Mr Hs incapacity claim was 
down to osteoarthritis and therefore excluded from cover.
Mr H provided British Friendly with medical evidence in support of his claim. His GPs notes 
show that Mr H had been referred to the consultant orthopaedic surgeon because of known 
severe OA (osteoarthritis) in right hip and both patella-femoral joints. The sick note 
completed by the GP states that he was signed-off because of osteoarthritis of hip. And the 
consultant orthopaedic surgeon diagnosed Mr H with advanced osteoarthritis, right hip, 
setting out a treatment plan of a robotic total hip replacement.
On this basis then, I think it was fair for British Friendly to rely on the available medical 
evidence to conclude that the cause of Mr Hs incapacity was osteoarthritis. And I therefore 
think it was reasonable for British Friendly to decide that the claim fell within the scope of the 
osteoarthritis exclusion. 
Did British Friendly provide unclear, unfair or misleading information ahead of inception?
Mr A feels strongly that British Friendly gave misleading information about the scope of the 
osteoarthritis exclusion before Mr H chose to take up the policy. He says this was a large 
factor in Mr H proceeding with the cover. Ive thought carefully about this and about the 
available evidence.
Following British Friendlys initial decision to decline cover for Mr H, Mr A appealed on his 
behalf. One of British Friendlys underwriting managers emailed Mr A on 24 June 2019 and 
explained that an underwriting director had reviewed Mr Hs application. They said:
Basically, this gentleman must understand that he will not be covered for any Osteo or 
arthritic related illnesses, and condition affecting his spine and neck and his upper limbs. 
We did not feel it would be fair to exclude his lower limbs unless the condition was related to 
his arthritis or problems with his spine. (Emphasis added.)
Immediately underneath, the email set out the relevant exclusions which were applied to Mr 
Hs policy (which I listed above). And it concluded:
Please discuss this with Mr H and confirm if he wishes to continue on this basis.
Having looked closely at the wording of this email, I dont think it gives the impression that 
British Friendly would cover any arthritis claim Mr H made for his lower limbs if the condition 
wasnt linked to his existing upper limb and toe arthritis. I think the fact that British Friendly 
set out that Mr H wouldnt be covered for any osteo or arthritic related illness as a distinct 
and separated clause means that it was intended to be read as a stand-alone exclusion. And 
Im also not satisfied that the paragraph was intended to be read in isolation, but rather in the 
context of the whole email. The relevant exclusion wordings were set out immediately below 
these comments and the arthritis exclusion was top of the list of those special terms. Im 
satisfied then that Mr H ought reasonably to have known that any osteoarthritis or arthritis 
related illnesses would be excluded. In my view, British Friendly made it clear enough that it 
would cover claims related to Mr Hs lower limbs only if they werent caused by arthritis or 
linked to his spine.Even if I had concluded that British Friendly couldve worded this paragraph more clearly 
though, I still think Mr H was given enough clear information to make an informed choice 
about whether to go ahead with the policy. British Friendly sent Mr A a letter on 4 July 2019 
setting out the terms of its cover offer. The arthritis exclusion was displayed prominently at 
the top of the list of the relevant special terms. There was no suggestion that this exclusion 
didnt apply to arthritis of Mr Hs lower limbs. And as Ive mentioned above, the full terms of 
the applicable exclusions were prominently displayed in the middle of page one of Mr Hs 
policy schedule. So I think that if Mr H had understood lower limb arthritis claims would be 
covered ahead of taking out the policy, the policy schedule shouldve reasonably put him on 
notice that this was a general and wide exclusion on all arthritis claims.
Overall then, I find that British Friendly didnt provide unclear, unfair or misleading 
information about the policy cover. And so while I sympathise with Mr Hs position, I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct British Friendly to pay this 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman