DRN-2871171
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc has closed his account and registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS  the national fraud database.
Whats happened?
On 1 October 2019, a third-party bank reported an attempted fraudulent credit into Mr As 
account to Santander, and his account was blocked. Mr A initially explained that he was 
expecting a credit from a family member, but he later told Santander that the credit wasnt 
from his family and he didnt recognise it. He also said that no-one had access to his account 
via his card and PIN or online banking.
On 7 October 2019, another fraudulent credit into Mr As account was attempted.
On 14 October 2019, Santander decided to close Mr As bank account and report the matter 
to CIFAS. 
Mr A says Santander has unfairly closed his account and blacklisted him. Hes explained 
that he couldnt find his bank card at school one day, but the next day it was on his desk. He 
believes that someone stole his card and paid money into his account. He denies agreeing 
to receive money into his account from someone else. 
Santander maintains that a fraud risk was identified, and appropriate action was taken. It 
says: 
Mr A never said his card had gone missing when it discussed the matter with him 
initially, and he told the bank he hadnt disclosed his PIN to anyone. So, he was the 
only one with access to his account, and a fraudster couldnt have accessed any 
credits into Mr As account without his help. 
Mr A viewed his account excessively on 1 October 2019  the day the first fraudulent 
credit was attempted.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt recommend that Santander remove the CIFAS marker or take any 
other action to resolve this complaint.
Mr A has asked for an ombudsmans final decision, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether it was fair for Santander to close Mr As account, and whether the 
banks report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander needed to have more than 
just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or attempted, backed up by 
evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities. So, the question for me is 
whether Santander had sufficient grounds to conclude that Mr A attempted to commit fraud, 
and I think it did. 
Mr A maintains that he has no knowledge of the attempted fraudulent credits into his 
account, and he did not agree to receive the credits for someone else. He says he has been 
the victim of fraud. But I dont think thats likely considering the evidence.
Mr A has said that his account number and sort code is displayed on his bank card, and 
someone couldve paid money into his account using this information without his knowledge 
or permission. I accept this but I think its highly unlikely that a fraudster would pay money 
into his account without believing they would be able to access that money. 
Mr A has said that: 
his bank card was taken and replaced a few days before the first attempted 
fraudulent credit into his account.
he allowed his friend/s to use his bank card on occasion, and they have asked to 
transfer money to him before.
his friend/s probably know his PIN (although he originally said that no-one did).
no-one has access to his online banking other than him. 
If Mr As friend/s or a fraudster was not able to access the fraudulent credits via online 
banking as Mr A has suggested, then they would either need Mr As bank card to withdraw 
the money, or they would only be able to make purchases online using the details displayed 
on the card. 
In the first scenario, I have to question why the friend/s or fraudster would have returned 
Mr As bank card to him before they attempted to pay fraudulent funds into his account for 
the first time and around a week before they attempted a second fraudulent credit. I say this 
because they would need to keep the card in order to make transactions. That is, unless 
they believed they would have unfettered access to the card, and I think its unlikely theyd 
assume Mr A wouldve been careless with his card again so soon after losing it and finding 
it. 
In both scenarios, I think its unlikely that the friend/s or fraudster would noticeably take the 
bank card at all because then there is the risk that the card would be reported as lost/stolen, 
blocked and access to the money paid into Mr As account lost. The physical presence of a 
bank card is not necessary for online purchases, having a picture of the card would suffice, 
so theres no need to noticeably take the card. And if someone knew they were able to take 
and replace Mr As bank card at leisure, I think its unlikely they wouldve raised Mr As 
suspicions by keeping the card for a long enough period for him to notice its absence.  
Mr A has suggested that his card may have been cloned during the period it was missing, 
and this is possible. But overall, I think its unlikely considering the other evidence Ive seen. 
For example, I note that Mr A tended to log-in to online banking fairly regularly prior to          
1 October 2019. But I agree that there were an excessive number of online banking log-ins 
on 1 October 2019 in comparison to the usual account activity. I think this reasonably 
suggests that Mr A (hes said no-one else had access to his online banking) was expecting 
the fraudulent credit and was checking to see if it had been received into his account  of 
course, it never was because it was blocked by the bank. I can see that a new mobile device 
was registered on 30 September 2019, and it was this device that was used to access online 
banking on 1 October 2019, but this doesnt change my conclusions. I say this because the new device was registered via online banking (and Mr A says he was the only one with 
access to this) and by entering a one-time passcode sent to Mr As previously registered 
device. So, either the new device was in Mr As possession and he was using it on               
1 October 2019, or he registered the new device for someone else to use and allowed them 
access to his online banking. Either way, some involvement and knowledge on Mr As part 
was required.
Mr A has been very inconsistent in the information he has given to the bank and this Service 
about the matter in hand. Hes changed his story a few times, and it seems likely that he is 
holding information back. But overall, taking all of the evidence and testimony in this case 
into account, Im persuaded that its most likely Mr A knew about the attempted fraudulent 
credits into his account and/or allowed someone else to use his account for this purpose. For 
that reason, I am satisfied that Santander had sufficient grounds to apply the relevant CIFAS 
marker, and I will not direct the bank to remove it. Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Santander to close Mr As account in the circumstances, in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman