DRN-2979621
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the 
money its lost to a scam.
Mr B, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on S behalf.
  
Whats happened?
Mr B says that one of S main suppliers (the supplier) rebranded in around July 2019 and 
employed a new financial director (the FD). 
On 6 September 2019, the FD emailed Mr B, chasing payment for two outstanding invoices. 
Later the same day, Mr B received another email, on the same email chain, advising him 
that the suppliers account details had changed. Some further emails were exchanged  in 
which new bank account details were provided and payment arrangements were agreed. 
On 20 September 2019, Mr B replied on the same chain of emails to say he had tried to 
make a payment to the account details hed been given and had received a message that 
the account does not accept bill payments. He was provided with different account details in 
return and made a payment of £6,000 to that account on 23 September 2019 (the 
payment).
Unbeknown to Mr B, only the first email sent to him on 6 September 2019 came from the FD. 
A fraudster had intercepted the FDs email and was responsible for sending the other emails 
Mr B had received  including those advising of new account details. So, when Mr B paid the 
invoice on 23 September 2019, he transferred £6,000 to the fraudsters account, rather than 
the suppliers as he intended.
The following week, Mr B emailed the supplier on a new email chain, advising that the 
payment had been made, and the scam was uncovered.
Mr B has said: 
The supplier has always chased S for overdue payments via email in the past.
The emails received from the FD and the fraudster came from slightly different email 
addresses, but he didnt notice that at the time because the address isnt immediately 
visible on his email account, only the senders name. He would need to click the 
senders name to see the associated email address. The genuine and fraudulent 
emails appeared to come from the same sender, and he did not click to see the 
associated email addresses until after the scam had been uncovered.  
There was nothing concerning about the style or tone of the fraudulent emails.
As the supplier had just restructured their business and had a new finance director, 
he didnt think it was odd that theyd changed their bank account  this made sense 
to him.  
He thought hed been mistakenly provided with the suppliers deposit account details 
when he received a non-acceptance of bill payments message on                            
20 September 2019.
The suppliers bank has a very stringent application process and he wouldnt have 
expected it to allow a fraudster to open an account.
He inputted the suppliers name when instructing the payment and he questions how 
someone can use another companys name on their bank account.
HSBC initially promised a full refund within 7 days, but it has in fact only agreed to 
reimburse 50% of S loss.
What has HSBC said?
Mr B reported the fraud on 30 September 2019, but by this time, the funds had already been 
withdrawn from the beneficiary account. 
HSBC says it has agreed to cover 50% of S loss because it didnt display a potential scam 
warning when the payment was made, which prompted Mr B to stop and consider the 
possibility of fraud. So it could have done more to protect S from financial harm. But it hasnt 
agreed to refund the whole loss because it thinks Mr B should have done more checks, via 
telephone, to validate the new account information he was given.
HSBC has said that the beneficiary account was properly authenticated when it was opened.
£100 has been paid by way of compensation for HSBCs incorrect assurances that the lost 
funds would be recovered within 7 working days.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that HSBC should have fully reimbursed S loss under the 
provisions of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code).  But HSBC didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one S has been the 
victim of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Having considered everything, Im not 
persuaded that any of the exceptions to reimbursement should apply in this case.
HSBC has argued that S should have done more to validate the new account details it had 
been given. But its admitted that it didnt display an effective warning during the payment 
journey, and it hasnt provided any evidence that its educated S about this type of fraud 
previously. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that S shouldve been 
aware of the inherent risk in receiving account details via email, or that it shouldve known 
what steps it needed to take to protect itself.I understand that S and the supplier had been transacting for a number of years prior to the 
scam, so there was an element of trust. A genuine invoice was overdue, and the FD had 
emailed Mr B to chase payment shortly before the fraudster began emailing him  so the 
communication was expected, and it didnt come out of the blue. Mr B has said that the 
supplier has always chased on overdue invoices via email in the past and this tallies with the 
events that took place in this case. 
Mr B has explained why he didnt think it odd that the supplier had changed their bank 
account, and hes said there was nothing about the emails he received which raised his 
suspicions. Ive compared the FDs email with the fraudsters, and I dont think its 
unreasonable that Mr B wasnt suspicious. The email addresses are slightly different, but 
Mr B has said he didnt spot this at the time, and from what hes said, I can understand why. 
The senders name does appear to be the same on the genuine and fraudulent emails, and 
the style, format and tone of the fraudulent emails isnt obviously different to the genuine 
email. So I think its reasonable that Mr B wasnt suspicious and didnt try to investigate the 
emails further.
Mr B has explained that he thought hed been given the suppliers deposit account details by 
mistake when the payment he tried to make on 20 September 2019 didnt go through, and 
I dont think this is an unreasonable assumption  particularly as he wasnt seemingly aware 
of the scam risk.
Overall, Im not convinced that Mr B made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payee was who he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine 
goods or services and/or the business he was transacting with was legitimate.
In all of the circumstances, Im satisfied that HSBC should have refunded the full amount S 
lost under the terms of the CRM Code. I am not persuaded that any of the permitted 
exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
reimburse the remainder of S loss within 28 days of receiving notification of 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date S should have received a full refund 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman