DRN-3833597
The complaint
Mr D complains about the time it took for ITI Capital Limited to transfer his investment ISA.
What happened
In 2020 Mr Ds ISA, which he held with another firm that had gone into administration, was 
transferred over to ITI. At the end of July 2020 Mr D received confirmation that the account 
had been migrated. During July Mr D began the process to transfer his ISA from ITI to 
another ISA manager, who Ill call Company A. By October 2020 the transfer wasnt 
complete, so Mr D made a complaint about the amount of time it was taking. On 10 
December 2020 ITI offered him £85 for the delay, and the transfer completed soon after. 
Mr D felt the compensation wasnt enough to make up for the inconvenience caused, and 
the fact he wasnt able to make investment decisions during that period of time. So, he 
escalated the complaint to our service. Mr Ds son is representing him in this matter, who Ill 
refer to as Mr D2. An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that ITI 
should pay Mr D a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. ITI and Mr D 
accepted this, and we provided ITI with payment details for Mr D in September 2022.
 
However, Mr D didnt then receive payment and asked to escalate his complaint. Mr D2 
explained how frustrating the further delay was to Mr D, given the history of poor 
communication from ITI. So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I wrote to ITI and explained that I felt the £300 previously agreed was not sufficient in the 
circumstances. I said the delays ITI caused throughout the complaint compounded the 
frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr D and I was minded to award a total of £400 
compensation. I also explained that I was minded to award interest on the £400, if the award 
wasnt paid within 30 days of ITI being notified of Mr Ds acceptance of the award. 
Mr D2 replied on Mr Ds behalf, and said they agreed with what Id said. ITI didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D says he initiated this transfer in July 2020, and ITI hasnt disputed this  but Id note I 
have no evidence of when ITI received the transfer request from Company A. I understand 
that Mr D wouldnt have received his account details from ITI until the end of July, and 
couldnt have requested the transfer until then. Ive no reason to doubt his recollections of 
beginning the transfer in July, which hed have done by initially speaking with Company A. 
They will have processed the application and then sent it over to ITI, which likely will have 
taken Company A several working days. So, I think its more likely than not that ITI would 
have received the transfer request at some point during the first half of August. 
However, the evidence Ive seen shows ITI didnt process the transfer request until 29 
November 2020, at which point it sent the valuation of the ISA to Company A. Mr D, and 
sometimes Mr D2 on his behalf, rang ITI at least three times before that, and logged a 
complaint  none of which they should have needed to do. The ISA was transferred to 
Company A in mid-December 2020. 
ITI havent told me how long it should have taken them to send the valuation to Company A, 
so Ive considered how long a fair and reasonable timeframe would be. I dont think it would 
be fair to say they ought to have sent it immediately, as its not unreasonable to allow some 
lead-in time. But equally I dont think it should take more than a couple of weeks to progress 
each stage of a transfer as, based on my experience of the general timeframes that firms 
take to complete each step in a transfer, it rarely takes two weeks. I think it would be fair to 
pick a mid-point between the two amounts of time  somewhere between immediately and a 
couple of weeks. So, I think its fair to say ITI ought to have sent the valuation to Company A 
within a week, particularly given the relatively minimal work involved in that step of the 
process. 
I can see that once they did send the valuation this was accepted by Company A on 14 
December 2020 and the transfer was settled on 16 December 2020. So had everything gone 
as it should, the transfer to Company A ought to have been complete by the end of August 
or the beginning of September 2020. Based on this, theres been a delay of around three 
and a half months. 
ITI admits that this delay was its fault. Mr D2 has said that Mr D had wanted to place trades 
before the transfer was complete, especially in November and December  but hasnt been 
specific about which shares would have been sold. Trades can be placed during the transfer 
process  but this can cause delays to the transfer, so I understand why Mr D didnt attempt 
to trade, given the already lengthy delays he was experiencing. That being said, as hes not 
been specific about the trades he wanted to place, and theres no evidence of when they 
would have been placed, Im not persuaded to award any financial loss here. 
Mr D and Mr D2 on his behalf have explained how frustrated and unhappy Mr D was about 
the delays. Ive considered the following when reaching my decision on the amount of 
compensation to award:
The delay here was significant, and I understand Mr D wasnt kept informed of any 
progress, which will have naturally been frustrating. 
Mr D made a number of calls, and a complaint, to understand what was taking so 
long, which was an inconvenience to him. 
Mr D has told us that hed wanted to trade, but didnt feel able to do so, due to ITIs 
actions. 
When Mr D had understood the matter would be settled, ITI has seemingly ignored 
him and not paid the original amount agreed. That delay, on top of others 
experienced throughout the complaint process, worsened the distress caused to him.
Having reviewed all the evidence and in particular taken account of the above factors, Im 
persuaded that an award of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ITI Capital Limited must pay Mr D £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. ITI Capital Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman