DRN-3675093
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in September 
2000 alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs M 
took out the card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs M says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator felt the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mrs H saw and signed. In this there is a 
section for PPI where Mrs H signed to agree to the cover. Mrs H says that she didnt give 
informed consent to the policy as she wasnt told anything about the PPI - she was just 
asked to complete the form. Ive thought about what Mrs H said, but it was her responsibility 
to read and consider what she was signing. And Ive looked carefully at Mrs Hs store card 
application form. There are sections of the form which have not been fully completed and 
other optional products which were not selected at the time. Ive also not seen anything in 
this form which suggests Mrs H had to take out the cover or that she wouldnt be able to take 
out the store card without it. So, I think it was clear the PPI was optional, and Mrs H signed 
in this section to agree to the cover.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her. Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been, but based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limitations on the PPI cover - so I 
think it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Hs outstanding monthly balance 
until she had returned to work or her outstanding balance had been paid off. Mrs H has 
provided evidence to show that she was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six 
months half six pay. She also said she had some savings, but she said this wouldve lasted 
her less than three months had she been off work. Mrs H strongly feels that as a result of her 
sick pay she didnt require the PPI. Ive considered everything Mrs H has said, but I still think 
the policy wouldve been useful to her and Ill explain why. The PPI policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to Mrs Hs employee sick pay, and I think this wouldve been particularly useful for 
her especially at the point her sick pay dropped down to half pay. And the PPI wouldve also 
paid out had Mrs H been made unemployed which I think wouldve been useful to her as she 
didnt have much savings at the time. And so, l still think the policy wouldve been useful for 
her and I dont think better information wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman