DRN-4005751
The complaint
Mr P complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly provided him with 
three loans in quick succession which he couldnt afford. 
 
What happened
Mr P was advanced three loans between January and March 2019. A summary of his 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £700.00 08/01/2019 sold 6 £215.44
2 £370.00 15/02/2019 sold 6 £123.94
3 £110.00 15/03/2019 outstanding 6 £33.29
Following Mr Ps complaint Lending Stream wrote to him and explained that loans 1 and 2 
were affordable based on the information that he had provided. For loan 3, it concluded 
Although this loan was 3 (sic) affordable, we have thought about the number of 
loans and the time between each loan being taken out. We can see that it might not 
have been a good idea for us to make these loans.
In order to put things right for Mr P Lending Stream offered the following:
refund the interest paid towards loan 3
pay 8% simple interest on the refund and then deduct tax at the rate of 20%
offset the refund against the balance that Mr P has with Lending Stream 
remove any negative information recorded with the credit reference agencies about 
this loan.
Lending Stream calculated, a refund of £38.23 was due which would reduce Mr Ps 
outstanding balance on loan 3 to £51.66. Unhappy with this offer, Mr P referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and in her assessment, she said she 
wouldnt be looking at loan 3, because in her view, Lending Stream had already made a fair 
and reasonable offer to put things right for Mr P. Indeed, she confirmed the offer was in line 
with what she may have recommended had she agreed the loan ought to not have been 
provided.  
The adjudicator then considered the complaint about loans one and two and she said based 
on the information gathered by Lending Stream it had made a reasonable decision to lend.  
Mr P didnt accept the outcome he said he had been let down and that the big company 
had won. After speaking to the adjudicator, Mr P also informed us that he is currently 
subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). 
The adjudicator asked Mr P to contact his IVA provider to find out whether they have an 
interest in any refund. Mr P says hes tried multiple times to call them, but he hasnt had a 
response. Given this the adjudicator told Mr P that he will need to confirm any refund with 
them. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors 
include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ps complaint.  
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.Loan 1
For this loan, Mr P told Lending Stream his monthly income was £2,545. Mr P also declared 
monthly outgoings of £908. This was all attributed to normal expenses. However, Lending 
Stream says that as a result of independent checks, it increased Mr Ps monthly living costs 
by a further £57. 
Lending Stream believed, based on the information Mr P provided he had around £1,580 per 
month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £215.44. Therefore, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Lending Stream to believe this loan was affordable for 
Mr P. 
Before the loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Mr Ps application.
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Lending Stream to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr P had 4 active accounts and 
Mr P hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last three years neither did he have any 
accounts enter delinquency within the last 12 months. Overall, there were no signs, from the 
credit check results which indicated Mr P was in financial difficulties or was having problems 
managing his existing credit commitments. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  I think it was reasonable for Lending 
Stream to have relied on the information Mr P provided to it  which showed he had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to 
suggest that Mr P was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for him. 
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr P was still repaying loan 1 when this loan was granted, and so his total monthly 
commitment to Lending Stream was now £339.38.  The same sort of checks was carried out 
by Lending Stream before it approved this loan. Mr P declared his monthly income was 
£2,400 with monthly outgoings of £900. For this loan, Lending Stream didnt make any 
adjustments to Mr Ps declared outgoings, unlike loan 1.
A credit check was also carried out before this loan was approved, and the results showed 
much the same as they did for loan one, expect this time Mr P had six active accounts. But 
there was no evidence of any defaults or delinquent accounts.  
It was still early on in the lending relationship, and I once again think it was entirely 
reasonable for Lending Stream to have approved this loan based on the information that it 
was given. I also dont yet think it had reached the point where it wouldve either have 
thought the loan was unsustainable for Mr P or it had yet reached the stage where it needed 
to verify the information he had provided. So, I am also not upholding Mr Ps complaint about this loan. 
Loan 3
I wont be making a finding about this loan because in the final response letter Lending 
Stream has agreed to, refund any interest that has been paid by Mr P (with 8% simple 
interest and tax deducted), use this refund to reduce what Mr P owes it for the third loan and 
finally, it has agreed to remove any adverse information from his credit file about the loan. 
Which is broadly in line with what we would direct Lending Stream to do if we had found in 
favour of Mr P for loan 3. 
Lending Stream has reiterated the offer it made in the final response letter is still available to 
Mr P and as of March 2023, the offer would mean Mr P has £51.68 (after the refund) worth 
of capital to repay. I therefore wont be looking at loan three in this decision because in my 
view, Lending Stream has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right for Mr P. 
To be clear, if I were to look at this loan, and decided that it ought to not have been granted 
to Mr P  than I wouldve asked Lending Stream to in effect make the loan interest free and 
then update Mr Ps credit file. So, what Lending Stream has already agreed to do is what I 
wouldve likely asked it to do  had no offer been made and I decided the loan ought to not 
have been provided.
So, the offer put forward by Lending Stream in the final response letter is fair and reasonable 
to resolve this part of his complaint and I am not going to ask it to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans 1 and 
2.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve 
the complaint about loan 3 and it should do what it has agreed to do in the final response 
letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman