DRN-2610177
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car acquired with finance from Motonovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Motonovo.
In October 2020 Mr L experienced issues with the car, including the car shaking and not 
accelerating correctly.
Mr L reported the issue to the supplying dealer who advised him to book the car in with a 
third-party garage. Whilst Mr L was waiting for his appointment with the third-party garage, 
he had the car inspected at a local garage. A diagnostic test showed five different fault 
codes.
The third-party garage carried out repairs to the car in November 2020 including replacing 
the coil pack. 
Mr L collected the car but the following day he had problems getting it to start and once 
started, it wouldnt accelerate. The car was also shaking badly.
Mr L contacted the supplying dealer again. It advised him to take the car back to the third-
party garage.
Mr L contacted Motonovo to complain. He asked to reject the car.
Motonovo arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspection found that the 
car displayed several fault codes and concluded that the car had a misfire fault. The 
engineer said the fault related to an unsuccessful repair.
Based on the findings in the report, Motonovo rejected Mr Ls complaint. It advised Mr L to 
take the car back to the supplying dealer to repair the failed repair.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants to reject the 
car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied and said that because there had already been one failed attempt at repair, Mr 
L should now be allowed to reject the car. 
Motonovo didnt agree. It said there was no evidence to show that the fault was present at 
the point of supply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. Satisfactory quality also includes fitness for purpose, safety and durability. 
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr L  to have a degree of wear 
and tear. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an 
inherent fault with the car, as opposed a to a fault due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If 
the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
An independent inspection can help to decide whether the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Ive looked at the independent inspection in this case. Ive also looked at the diagnostic test 
carried out by Mr Ls local garage and Ive taken into account Mr Ls photos of the cars on 
board diagnostics.
Mr Ls photos are dated 23 October 2020. These show that the fault log is displaying 6 
codes. Three of these relate to the power train, of which one was a misfire on cylinder one. 
The other two powertrain faults were pending and related to the powertrain system running 
too rich and powertrain random/multiple cylinder misfire detected. This evidence suggests to 
me that there was a misfire fault as at October 2020. 
The diagnostic carried out by Mr Ls local garage shows fault codes relating to a misfire in 
cylinders two and three, as well as other faults. The diagnostic, which is dated 6 November 
2020, confirms that the car has a misfire fault (as already indicated by the cars fault log). 
This evidence supports a finding that the car had a misfire fault as at November 2020. 
Im aware that there was a repair attempt by the supplying dealers nominated third party 
garage in November 2020. Motonovo hasnt been able to provide the job card for the repair 
but based on what Mr L has said, and based on the comments of the independent engineer, 
Im satisfied that a repair was attempted.
The independent inspection report identifies a misfire fault. This is consistent with the cars 
fault log and the diagnostic carried out by Mr Ls local garage. It also suggests that the 
attempt to repair the misfire was unsuccessful. This is because the independent inspection 
found 6 fault codes on a diagnostic interface, three of which were identical to those identified 
on the diagnostic carried out by Mr Ls local garage before the repairs were carried out by 
the third-party garage.
Ive thought about whether the misfire fault identified in the independent inspection was likely 
to have been present or developing at the point of supply. As Ive already said, because the 
fault occurred in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that it was a point of sale fault and 
its for the business to show otherwise. Taking all the circumstances into account, I dont 
think the fault was caused by the repairs because its clear from the fault codes on the 
diagnostic prior to repairs that there was a misfire fault.
The independent report isnt particularly helpful as to whether the misfire fault was a point of 
supply fault or not. The engineers comments are contradictory. He says (at A1) that the fault had been present at the point of sale and that the repairs were unsuccessful. At A3 he says 
that the fault isnt due to wear and tear. At A7 he says he doesnt think the fault is a point of 
sale fault but is related to a previous repair. At C2 the engineer says that due to the time and 
mileage elapsed since the point of sale, he doesnt think it is a point of supply fault.
The independent report is, at best, contradictory. Im not persuaded that the report is strong 
enough evidence to rebut the presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Because of the contradictory statements made by the engineer in the independent report, 
Ive reviewed all of the other engineering information. Having done so, Im persuaded that all 
the evidence points towards there being a misfire fault before the repairs were attempted in 
November 2020. The cars fault log shows that the misfire fault was present as early as 
October 2020. 
Ive taken into account the age and mileage of the car. At the point of sale, the car was 
around 10 years old and had covered 47.000 miles. By the time of the independent 
inspection in November 2020 the car had covered 50,900. So around 3000 miles had been 
covered by Mr L since the point of supply. I dont think this is a significant amount of mileage 
to cover over a 4 month period, and theres nothing to suggest that the misfire fault was due 
to excessive use of the car.
The fault occurred around 3 months after the point of supply. I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect to experience this type of fault so soon after the inception of the 
agreement. Given the relatively low mileage of the car and taking into account the engineers 
view that the fault wasnt due to wear and tear, Im of the view that the fault was more likely 
to have been present or developing at the point of supply, and that the component part 
causing the fault wasnt reasonably durable. This means the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
Putting things right
I appreciate that Motonovo has said that it wants the supplying dealer to repair the 
unsuccessful repair. But I dont think this is a fair resolution, because there has already been 
one attempt at repair which wasnt successful. The relevant legislation says that Mr L can 
reject the car in these circumstances.
I acknowledge that repairs were attempted before Mr L complained to Motonovo. But I dont 
think Motonovo has been prejudiced here, because its likely that Motonovo would have 
referred Mr L back to the supplying dealer in any event.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr L should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr L hasnt used the car since November 2020. Hes explained that the fault made it difficult 
to drive the car and that he feels unsafe driving it because it shakes and doesnt accelerate 
properly. I dont think in the circumstances that Mr L has acted unreasonably by stopping 
using the car. Because hes stopped using the car, I dont think he should be responsible for 
making payments for the time he hasnt used the car, so any payments hes made since 
November 2020 should be refunded. 
I can see that Mr L has ben caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience by the 
issues with the car. Hes had to take the car a significant distance to the third part garage 
nominated by the supplying dealer, which has impacted on his work. Mr L has described 
how unsafe and nervous he felt driving the car and I have no reason to doubt him. In the 
circumstances I think its fair to ask Motonovo to pay compensation to Mr L.
Finally, Mr L has paid a fee to his local garage for the diagnostic. He took the car here because there was a delay before the third party garage nominated by the supplying dealer 
could inspect the car. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr L to take the car for a 
diagnostic, because he was reliant on the car to get around and wanted the issues 
diagnosed and fixed as quickly as possible. I think its fair to ask Motonovo to refund Mr L the 
diagnostic fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Motonovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr L
Refund the deposit together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund any monthly payments made by Mr L since 3 November 2020 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr L the cost of the diagnostic report upon proof of payment
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman