DRN-3567895
The complaint
Mr T says 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a Guarantor loan provided by 1Plus1 to Mr T in March 2019. The 
loan was for £3500 and was to be repaid by Mr T over 60 months. When Mr T made a 
complaint to 1Plus1, he had a balance to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below:
Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would 
be able to repay loan in a sustainable way?
1Plus1 has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr T it carried out a credit 
check and asked him for details about his income and expenditure. It discussed with Mr T, 
his expenditure during a phone call. It verified Mr Ts income and also went through the 
credit check to look through Mr Ts credit commitments. It then calculated what it thought 
was Mr Ts disposable income to see if the loan repayments were affordable. Based on 
those checks 1Plus1 thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the amount that Mr T borrowed, the repayment and term of loan, I think the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggested to 1Plus1 the loan was 
affordable and Mr T could sustain the repayments over the term. There is a default that 
1Plus1 would have seen in the credit check it carried out and I think it ought to have 
considered this when it agreed to lend to Mr T. It would have also seen that Mr T had taken 
guarantor loans with other finance providers before he asked for this one. But with the 
information it had in front of it, it would have seen that the repayments for this loan were 
sustainably affordable. 
I appreciate Mr T has said the loan was unaffordable and that he had difficulties with his 
finances. But I dont think this is something 1Plus1 knew or ought to have known about from 
what I consider to be proportionate checks.
 
Did 1Plus1 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether 1Plus1 acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Finally, Mr T has queried why our service has upheld his complaint about other guarantor 
loans and not this one. I have looked at Mr Ts other complaints that our service has dealt 
with. An investigator or an ombudsman will look at each complaint on its merits and weigh 
up the individual circumstances that are given by the parties. I have done that here, and in 
doing so, I am currently not upholding Mr Ts complaint, for the reasons given.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. 
Mr T responded and made several points. I have read what he has said carefully and 
have outlined below what I think are the key parts of his response:
Mr T says he is not able to provide any bank statements from the application. He 
says if bank statements were required for the loan to be approved then the 
business would have copies and we should look to obtain evidence from them. 
He says we should have all we need in our investigation by obtaining what we 
need from the business. 
He doesnt accept that each case has to be taken on its own merits, and points to 
two other cases he had with the service with other firms where his complaints 
were upheld. He asks why our approach has changed from those two cases to 
this one.
Mr T says he will be making a formal complaint regarding the investigation caried 
out and about the impartiality of the review taken place in this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says he is not able to provide bank statements from the time he applied for a loan 
with 1Plus1. He says if we needed bank statements, we should have obtained them from 
1Plus1. Mr T is saying we should have done that, if we are concluding it needed 
statements in order to make a fair lending decision. 
I can see from looking at the documentation submitted, that 1Plus1 didnt ask Mr T for 
bank statements at the time of application. Instead, it asked him to make declarations 
about his income and expenditure. It also verified his income and looked through a credit 
check. I felt after considering the circumstances of this complaint that 1Plus1 had 
gathered enough to go on and make a lending decision. 
So, with this conclusion in mind, I didnt then need to ask Mr T for any further information, 
including asking him for bank statements. This is because, I didnt need to consider what 
further checks by 1Plus1 would have found, as I had already concluded its checks were 
proportionate. 
Mr T says that he doesnt accept that each case has to be taken on its own merits, and 
he points to two other cases that the service has looked into. I am aware of the other 
cases he is referring to. I would like to reiterate again that as an ombudsman I will look at 
each complaint on its own merits and weigh up the individual circumstances of each 
complaint in an impartial way. This is what I have done in this instance with Mr Ts 
complaint about 1Plus1. 
Mr T has said he will make a complaint about the impartiality of the review I have taken in 
his complaint about 1Plus1. I am sorry this is not the outcome Mr T wanted and I 
acknowledge his frustrations and the points he has made in his reply to my provisional 
decision. But when I looked into his complaint here and assessed the individual circumstances of it, I didnt think 1Plus1 had done anything wrong when it agreed to lend 
to him. And there are no additional points from Mr T or 1Plus1 that have changed my 
decision either.  
With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman