DRN-1866037
The complaint
Miss N has complained Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited is charging her for 
damage to the car she returned to them. She doesnt believe there was damage the day the 
car was collected.
What happened
Miss N had extended her hire purchase agreement for a further three months. This was due 
to expire in June 2019. MBFS asked their agents to contact Miss N to arrange inspection 
and collection of her car. Miss N was also sent MBFSs document explaining what would 
happen when her car was picked up.
Initially an inspection was arranged for 6 June and pick-up on 14 June. A letter dated 31 May 
was sent to Miss N confirming inspection/collection on 14 June. Miss N rang to cancel the 
inspection on 6 June. Her car was picked up on 14 June. She was given a one-page 
Pre Contract End Col sheet. Miss N believed this was also the full inspection of her car and 
shed been told this would be the end of it.  
Within a fortnight she got an invoice from MBFS for £1,388.66 detailing damage to the car 
that was outside of the normal wear and tear and contrary to their standards. Miss N got in 
touch immediately. MBFS removed the charges for damage to the four alloys. They 
accepted her evidence this damage had been present when the car was first supplied in 
2016. However they still expected her to pay for damage to the headlight and left wing 
moulding. MBFS asked her to pay £928.66.
Miss N brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She was also concerned that £300 
MBFS had agreed to refund her  because the inspection hadnt gone ahead as planned on 
10 June  had not been taken into account. She also provided us with photographs to show 
thered been no damage to the car.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included calls between Miss N and MBFSs 
collection agent to explain what was going to happen when her car was picked up. This 
confirmed there would be both an inspection and a collection. Our investigator believed the 
formal inspection had taken place less than a fortnight after the car had been collected. 
Those photos did show the damage MBFS claimed. She didnt think it was unfair of MBFS to 
claim £628.66 from Miss N for the damage in line with their terms and conditions.
Miss N didnt agree with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 22 April and 4 May 2020. 
This covers the reports, what she believed Miss N knew based on telephone calls and 
correspondence and whether MBFS were able to ask Miss N to pay these charges based on 
their terms and conditions. I wont be repeating everything that was said there. Miss N sent 
us detailed comments in her response, including her email of 9 June 2020. I can reassure 
her Ive considered the points she made thoroughly.
The evidence  including copies of calls which I know Miss N has also received  shows 
Miss N discussed the car being collected from her. Its clear from early conversations it was 
made clear that an inspection and the collection were two separate things. Although Miss N 
cancelled the proposed inspection on 6 June and, perfectly rationally, believed both things 
could be melded into one, I dont believe this was ever the case.
The report Miss N was given after her car was collected on 14 June wasnt a full inspection 
report but, as it was entitled, a statement around its collection. This covered some basic 
points about the condition of the car but this was not the detailed inspection Id inspect car 
owners to conduct before accepting the car back.
Miss N has given us photographs of the condition of her car when she handed it back. 
Unfortunately these arent clear enough to see whether there was, or wasnt, the damage 
MBFS later claimed. Whereas the photos from the later inspection do show the damage.
I believe Miss N is suggesting her car was damaged in the 12-day period between her car 
being picked up and inspected. This is certainly possible and Ive considered this. But overall 
I believe this is unlikely. I see no reason why this would be the case. Its most likely any 
damage was caused by Miss N during the lengthy period she used it. Ive based this on 
reading the detailed report from 26 June. This suggests quite widespread repair had been 
attempted to the car. I think its feasible this would only have been noticed when a detailed 
inspection was undertaken. Both reports state the external condition of the car was 
extremely dirty.
Ive looked at MBFSs standards and what they charge for as damage. I can see  based on 
those  that its not unfair for MBFS to ask Miss N to pay for damage which happened when 
she had the car.
I appreciate Miss N disagrees and also believes the charges MBFS has levied are steep. 
The vast majority of the charge is made up of the cost of replacements to the headlamps as 
the surface was scratched. Overall I dont think this is unfair. In fact from reading the original 
report, estimates of costs for repair suggest more than £4,000 could have been charged.
MBFS offered Miss N a refund of £300. This was ostensibly because theyd missed an 
inspection on 10 June. It seems from the evidence that its not clear any inspection had ever 
been planned on that date so there were potentially mixed messages between the collection 
agent and MBFS. In any case MBFS has agreed to continue to rebate the money Miss N 
owes them by that figure. They will only be asking her to repay £628.66.I believe thats fair. I say this because Ive been looking at MBFSs intentions to pursue 
Miss N through court for the money owed. They hired external lawyers to take action to get 
the debt paid. This happened to coincide with the beginning of lockdown in the UK so Miss N 
was understandably very concerned. If MBFS hadnt already agreed to reduce what Miss N 
owed them, I may have asked them to do this because of the distress caused.
I dont underestimate the upset this has caused Miss N. Shes been very open with us about 
her mental health and the additional strain this issue has placed upon her. I would expect 
MBFS to ensure that they treat her sympathetically and positively when seeking repayment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ns complaint against 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman