DRN-4252777
The complaint
Mr M complains Marshmallow Insurance Limited handled his motor insurance claim poorly.
Marshmallows been represented by agents during the claim. For simplicity Ive referred to 
the agents actions as being those of Marshmallow. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr Ms car was damaged in a collision. He claimed for its repair against his 
Marshmallow motor insurance policy. The insurer accepted the claim and arranged repairs. 
Mr M was unhappy with various aspects of its claim handling  including poor 
communication, not fully repairing the vehicle, avoidable delays and failure to provide a 
courtesy car. Mr M says this had a significant impact on him and his family  including 
inconvenience, additional costs, loss of earnings and distress. 
In February 2022 Marshmallow responded to Mr Ms complaint. It apologised for not 
providing a courtesy car during the initial round of repairs  it offered £340 to make up for 
that. It accepted it had initially failed to complete the repairs properly. Marshmallow accepted 
some of its communication hadnt been good enough. It also accepted responsibility for 
some delay, but said other periods were unavoidable. It offered £120 compensation to make 
up for the various service problems it accepted responsibility for. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied so came to this service. To resolve his complaint he would like 
significant compensation for the inconvenience, loss of earnings and poor service. 
Our Investigator felt Marshmallows loss of use compensation payment was reasonable, so 
she didnt recommend it pay any extra. She did recommend it pay an additional £130 
compensation to make up for delays. She also said it should cover Mr Ms quoted cost of 
repairing a damaged wing mirror. Marshmallow accepted that outcome. Mr M accepted the 
loss of use payment for the 34 days the car was with the repairer. But he felt £250 
compensation wasnt enough to recognise the impact of the delays and other poor service.
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr M and Marshmallow provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
As Mr Ms accepted the £340 loss of use payment, to make up for not receiving a courtesy 
car during the initial repair period, I havent considered that issue. Marshmallow also agreed 
to cover the repair to the wing mirror. So I havent considered that further either. 
That leaves me to decide if the total compensation, £250, agreed by Marshmallow for the 
remaining poor service issues is fair and reasonable. It was responsible for some 
unnecessary delay in the claim  the most significant being its failure to conduct adequate 
repairs at the first attempt. This left Mr M without the use of the car for an additional period. I 
appreciate this will have been an inconvenience for him and his family. 
Hes mentioned additional fuel costs and an enforced reliance on his parents.  Hes referred 
to a particular issue with the school run. However, the period following the inadequate repair 
was largely during the school holidays and the family had, during the full claim, use of a 
second car to minimise any impact.  
I have sympathy for Mr Ms complaint about poor communications from Marshmallow. Hes 
particularly unhappy about its failure to respond to his emails and provide updates on the 
claim. 
I havent detailed everything here  but Ive considered everything Mr Ms said about the 
impact on him and his family. Overall Im satisfied £250 is enough to recognise the impact of 
Marshmallows poor communications and the avoidable delay.  
Im not going to require Marshmallow to pay any compensation for loss of earnings. This 
relates to Mr Ms intention to use the car for delivery work in the run up to Christmas. Firstly 
that loss isnt directly covered by the policy. And I cant fairly say Marshmallows mistakes 
are responsible for a loss of income. Even without the avoidable delay the car would likely 
have been out of use for a significant portion of the relevant period. In addition I havent seen 
anything to show Mr M had a history of income from the role. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Marshmallow Insurances Limited to (if it hasnt 
already): 
pay Mr M £340 to cover the period without a courtesy car, 
pay him a total of £250 compensation (including the £120 offered previously) and
pay him £120 to cover the cost of the wing mirror repair  or alternatively, if he 
prefers, arrange for it to repaired by one of its approved repairers.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman