The complaint
The estate of Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) hasn't offered fair 
compensation - it hasn't added 8% interest to the refunded PPI payments its offered to 
make on the late Mrs Gs store card.
What happened
Briefly:
In May 2019 AXA offered to uphold the late Mrs Gs complaint about PPI on her store card. It 
offered to refund the PPI premiums charged to the account along with the interest charged 
on those premiums. It said that it didn't have all the transactional data on the account before 
2005  albeit it said it did have the total PPI premiums paid, the interest charged and the 
total spend on the account. It said it used this information to make reasonable assumptions 
about the operation of the account and to calculate compensation. 
It added that because its calculation showed the late Mrs Gs account wouldn't have likely 
gone into credit had no PPI been charged, it wasn't necessary to add 8% interest to any 
compensation payable.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they said 
that AXAs offer was fair and it wasn't wrong for it to have made assumptions about the 
account where there was missing information.
The estate of Mrs G disagrees, so the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
PPI complaints on our website and I've taken into account what's relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer the estate of Mrs G was hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I think the adjudicator has reached the right 
outcome here and theres not much more I feel I can usefully add to what the estate of Mrs 
G has already been told.
Fair compensation for mis-sold PPI on a revolving credit type product such as a store card 
as in this case, requires the business to carry out a reconstruction of the account to establish 
what position the account would have been in had PPI not been present.
DRN-1623399Essentially this involves the business refunding the PPI premiums and the interest charged 
on those premiums (they should also refund any account charges and interest on those 
charges directly caused by PPI.)
Where there is incomplete account data to fully reconstruct the account, it is fair for a 
business to make reasonable assumptions about the operation of the account using the data 
that is available.
It is only where a business identifies in its reconstruction that payments to the account 
without any PPI wouldve created or likely created a positive balance on the account  i.e. 
the payments would have been greater than what was owed on the account - that 8% 
compensatory interest to reflect loss of opportunity is payable.
In this case, Im satisfied AXA hasn't acted unfairly in both making and explaining its offer of 
compensation. Its said that it hasn't got all the transaction history on the late Mrs Gs 
account. But using what data it does have to reconstruct the late Mrs Gs account, shows 
that it would not have gone into credit had PPI not been present  the late Mrs G would 
simply have had a lower outstanding debit balance, which its compensated for by returning 
the PPI premiums and the interest charged on those premiums. AXA doesn't have to do 
anything more.
I can see the estate of Mrs G has said they've received 8% compensatory interest from other 
businesses and that what AXA has done isn't in keeping with the Government site about 
PPI.
Its possible that other businesses might have taken a different approach to redress or that 
the estate of Mrs G is referring to PPI compensation on different credit products such as 
loans or mortgages. For these products 8% interest is typically payable for the loss of 
opportunity because of the different way the PPI is funded  typically taken by direct debit 
from a consumers bank account. But as Ive said above, I think AXA has acted fairly in this 
case and is in line with what wed expect them to do.
Im not sure which Government site the estate of Mrs G is referring to. But I can direct it to 
our own website www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk - the estate of Mrs G should type in PPI 
redress  into the search bar - where weve set out the approach Ive described above. I hope 
this will give further reassurance to the estate of Mrs G that it has not been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided that AXA France IARD's offer of compensation is fair, so 
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
G to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman