The complaint
Mrs C says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to her.         
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans MoneyBoat provided to Mrs C. The first was for 
£200 on 21 November 2018, repayable over 4 months. The second was for £450 on 12 
February 2019, repayable over 5 months. There is an outstanding balance on the second 
loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Cs complaint and thought the loans shouldnt have been given. 
MoneyBoat disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C could repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
DRN-1915535There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator concluded MoneyBoat shouldnt have given either loan to Mrs C because its 
checks on Mrs Cs creditworthiness showed she had other outstanding short term loans at 
the times she applied. She said this suggested Mrs C was having problems managing her 
money and MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was likely Mrs C would struggle to 
sustainably repay the loans. 
MoneyBoat disagreed saying, in summary, the checks undertaken were proportionate 
especially given the infancy of the lending relationship. It says whilst we might argue that it 
should have considered all the information it gathered, at this early stage most decisions are 
automated. In its market - where quick and efficient service is needed - it would be 
impractical to review every line of a credit file for every loan. 
As I set out earlier in this decision, in the early stages of a lending relationship we do think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, in line with the 
relevant regulations, we expect a lender to have proper regard for any information it gathers 
from the checks it decides to do. 
MoneyBoat says it asked Mrs C for information about her income and expenditure when she 
applied for the loans. It also carried out a credit check. It says it then adjusted her disposable 
income based on what this showed and/or inputs from third party data sources. And overall 
these checks showed the loans were affordable for Mrs C.
I agree that the checks it carried out seem to have been proportionate. But Im not 
persuaded that it had proper regard for the information it gathered and then made 
responsible lending decisions. Both credit checks showed that Mrs C had at least three other 
short term loans outstanding and that she was spending more than she had declared to 
MoneyBoat on repaying existing credit. And the number of active short term loans she had 
increased between loan 1 and loan 2.
So from the information MoneyBoat gathered I think it ought to have realised that Mrs C was 
finding it difficult to manage her money, and there was a real risk she would most likely not 
be able to repay her loans sustainably. It argues that she repaid loan 1 earlier than the final 
repayment date which is not usually indicative of someone finding their repayments to be 
unaffordable. But given the information MoneyBoat had, I dont think this is a fair conclusion 
 early repayment can also indicate that someone has borrowed to repay, and so is not 
repaying sustainably. Based on the number of other short term loans Mrs C had, MoneyBoat ought to have realised there was a high risk that this was the case here. It follows I think it 
was wrong to have given Mrs C both loans.     
Putting things right  what MoneyBoat must do
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
 
A) It should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs C towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B) It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs C which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs C originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) It should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mrs C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mrs C having made 
overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. It should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mrs C. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs C. It shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mrs Cs credit file. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
MoneyBoat intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mrs C owes, it must do this after 
tax.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) should pay Mrs C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman