DRN-3603733
The complaint
Mr N complains that Revolut Ltd restricted access to his account and wont release his 
funds. Hed like his funds returned and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr N had an account with Revolut.
On 4 August 2020 Revolut received a fraud report from a third party bank Ill call R. And on 
5 August 2020 Revolut restricted Mr Ns access to his account. 
On 31 August 2020 Revolut made the decision to close Mr Ns account, and they sent his 
remaining funds to R, the victims bank. 
Mr N wasnt happy with Revoluts actions so raised a complaint. Revolut looked into Mr Ns 
complaint but didnt uphold it. Overall they thought theyd followed the terms and conditions 
of the account in reviewing and blocking it  and felt they acted fairly in returning Mr Ns 
funds to R, based on the fraud report. 
On coming to our service Mr N explained that in August 2020 he was unable to find one of 
his trades on his Revolut account, so he attempted to contact them. Unfortunately after 
finding what he thought was a phone number for Revolut, he instead spoke with scammers 
on two occasions. They instructed him to download software, Ill call A, which allowed them 
to remotely access his computer and consequently gain access to his Revolut account. 
Having done so they managed to transfer fraudulent funds through his account which led to 
the account being blocked. 
The majority of the funds passed through Mr Ns account belonged to the victim of the scam 
 however Mr Ns own funds, just over £800, were sent to R by Revolut. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns account. Initially our investigator concluded that 
Mr Ns account of events didnt fit with the evidence presented  mainly because of a 
transfer of over £1,000 made on the day of the fraudulent payments. However after speaking 
with Mr N further  and Mr N confirming he made this transfer himself  they thought hed 
been the victim of a scam. And it was unfair for Revolut to use his own funds to send to R. 
Our investigator directed Revolut to return Mr Ns funds, and pay 8% from the date the funds 
were sent to R, to the date they are paid to Mr N. Plus £100 compensation for the distress 
caused to him. And they also wanted Revolut to provide clarification of the balance in Mr Ns 
trading account. 
Mr N responded to say hed just like to get his money back from the trading account. 
Revolut didnt accept our investigators view. In response they said:
They never had phone support, and its clearly communicated to all their customers
The device used didnt change until after the fraud happened
He didnt raise the fraud on contacting Revolut
They dont think 8% is fair, as Mr N would most likely have kept the funds in his 
Revolut account. Revolut believe that its not fair or reasonable for them to pay 8% 
for such a long period based on the ombudsman service taking a long time to reach a 
conclusion. And 1% is a fairer rate. 
As Revolut didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
On picking up Mr Ns decision, I asked Revolut for more information regarding Mr Ns 
investment account, whether it had been closed and where the funds were. Revolut provided 
evidence to show Mr Ns investment account was closed and his funds were returned to his 
e-money Revolut account. Unfortunately, Im unable to consider the fairness of Revoluts 
actions in closing Mr Ns investment account as these actions were taken by a separate 
legal entity. However, once Mr Ns investment funds were transferred to his Revolut account 
they were subsequently sent to R, and Ive considered the fairness of this below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns main complaint is about Revoluts actions in not returning his funds to him. But before 
considering this Ill briefly address their actions in restricting and closing his account. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account and the wider regulatory
obligations Revolut need to comply with. Revoluts terms are clear in detailing their ability to 
review accounts and suspend them when necessary  and I think they initially followed these 
terms and conditions fairly. It follows, I cant say they acted unfairly in blocking access to 
Mr Ns account. However, I do need to think about whether the review was completed as 
quickly as Id expect.
Revolut initially restricted Mr Ns account on 4 August 2020, and completed their review by 
31 August 2020. Im satisfied the review was completed in a reasonable timescale. 
Ive moved on to consider Revoluts actions in sending the funds in Mr Ns account to R. 
Revolut have argued that because Mr N received fraudulent funds into his account its fair for 
them to repay R using Mr Ns funds  and they dont think Mr Ns explanation for what 
happened makes sense. 
Ive thought about Mr Ns description of events when he wasnt able to access his account. 
And having done so Im satisfied that Mr Ns explanation is plausible and on balance he 
wasnt complicit in the fraud. And in fact Mr N was also the victim of a scam. I say this 
because:
Mr Ns advised when he couldnt find all the trades on his Revolut investment 
account, he searched online and found a phone number for them. Unfortunately 
Revolut dont have a phone number, therefore this was a scam. Revolut argue that 
theyve never provided phone support, and theyve made this clear to their 
customers. However, Ive tested Mr Ns explanation and if you search for Revoluts 
contact details online a phone number comes up at the top of your search. So I dont 
find Mr Ns explanation implausible. Ive listened to the two phone calls Mr N had with the scammers. And I think Mr N 
genuinely believes hes speaking with Revolut. And it wasnt unreasonable for him to 
follow the directions he was given, including installing A, which allowed the 
scammers access to his device.
Revolut have highlighted that the fraudulent transfers were moved out of Mr Ns 
account using his genuine device. However, once Mr N installed A the scammers 
had remote access to Mr Ns device and account. Therefore I dont find it surprising 
that the transfers were made from his genuine device. 
Revolut have argued that on contacting them Mr N didnt raise that fraud had taken 
place on his account. Ive considered this and I can see that Mr N notified Revolut 
that he thought hed experienced fraud on 18 August 2020, only a couple of weeks 
after the fraud. With Mr Ns access to his account being restricted on 5 August 2020 I 
dont find it surprising he didnt offer this explanation to Revolut until a couple of 
weeks after the scam. 
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont think Mr N was complicit in the fraud. It follows 
that I dont think Revolut acted reasonably in sending Mr Ns funds to R  and these should 
be returned to him. 
Putting things right
I think Revolut should pay Mr N 8% from the date the funds were sent to R, 31 August 2020, 
to the date they are returned. I say this because Mr N has been deprived of the use of his 
funds, including the opportunity to invest them elsewhere. And Im afraid I cant agree with 
Revoluts argument that its unreasonable for them to pay 8% for such a long period of time. 
Revolut could have chosen to return Mr Ns funds to him much sooner, including when our 
investigator recommended for them to do so. 
I also think that Revoluts actions caused Mr N anxiety and inconvenience. I therefore think 
they should pay him £100 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Mr N £815.28 plus 8% from 31 August 2020 to the date of reimbursement
Pay Mr N £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman