DRN-3165216
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) didnt provide the service their 
contract said they would in relation to his claim for a refund of payment protection insurance 
(PPI)  so they shouldnt be entitled to their fee.
What happened
In 2019, Mr B signed terms of engagement and letters of authority permitting WFAC to 
contact lenders on his behalf to see if he could claim a refund of mis-sold PPI.  The terms of 
engagement provided that WFACs fee would be payable in the event that Mr B received 
compensation.
Several months later, Mr B received a refund from a lender Ill call L.  He contacted WFAC to 
ask how much he owed them.  WFAC asked him how much hed received.  Mr B says this 
concerned him, as his contract with WFAC said theyd negotiate a settlement on his behalf  
and if they didnt know what hed been paid, that suggested WFAC hadnt done that.  
WFAC said theyd look into his claim.  But Mr B says he heard nothing until two years later 
when WFAC invoiced him.  Before paying the invoice, Mr B asked what negotiations theyd 
had in his case.  When WFAC didnt tell him and threatened recovery proceedings, Mr B 
complained.
WFAC replied to Mr Bs complaint saying theyd previously written to him setting out what 
theyd done in his claim.  But L didnt confirm until WFAC chased them that theyd already 
made an offer to, and paid, Mr B.  WFAC said this made it impossible for them to negotiate 
with L.  But they said, if Mr B now wanted to challenge the offer, theyd consider whether it 
was appropriate for him now to decline it.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with WFACs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded that WFAC didnt need to do anything differently to 
resolve his complaint as theyd completed their part of the agreement.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive read the terms and conditions Mr B signed.  There are several versions on the file.  But 
all are clear that WFACs fees are paid only in the event of a successful claim being made 
against a lender.  Mr Bs claim against L was successful.  So, on the face of it, WFAC are 
entitled to their fee.
Mr Bs challenged WFACs entitlement because he says theres no evidence that WFAC 
negotiated the best settlement possible.  Ive thought about that.  But I can see that, after 
WFAC submitted Mr Bs claim to L, L wrote to them theyd written to Mr B acknowledging the 
claim and that they encouraged him to deal with requests from them himself.  They said 
theyd send a copy of their decision to WFAC.  But this didnt happen.
Instead L sent an offer to Mr B without copying in WFAC.  WFAC only found out about this 
after Mr B had been paid.  And Mr Bs not suggested he asked WFAC for any advice before 
accepting the money.  So I think WFACs position that they werent given any opportunity to 
negotiate is reasonable.
I can see Mr B says he instructed WFAC on the understandingthat they would negotiate 
with lenders to provide the best outcome.  Whilst I can understand why someone might 
thing using a claims management company might lead to a better outcome, thats not 
necessarily the case.  
And Ive not seen any evidence that it was here.  I can see WFACs terms and conditions 
include a term which says:
You acknowledge that you are aware that You could complain directly to Your Creditor(s) at 
no cost and, if necessary, pursue your complaint with the FOS or via a County Court.        
So Im satisfied that option was made clear to Mr B when he opted to instruct WFAC.  I can 
see WFAC offered to review the position if Mr B didnt think the payment he got was the best 
outcome.  I dont think they need to do any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about We Fight Any 
Claim Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman