DRN-2908019
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua has irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card with Aqua in March 2018 and was accepted with a £900 credit
limit. Mr W complained to Aqua and said he was in a desperate situation at the time of his
application and shouldnt have been offered the card. He said the credit limit shouldnt have
been increased and that the repayments were unaffordable. He wanted Aqua to write off the
outstanding balance.
Aqua did not uphold his complaint. They said that they offered credit cards to people who
have poor credit, which can help customers improve their credit rating. Aqua said they
considered the information on his application  that he was employed earning £21,000 with
£11,900 of unsecured debt and had other household income of £21,000 and used the
information from credit reference agencies  such as Mr W not having any arrears, public
records or defaults showing on his credit file, to accept his application.
Aqua said that they hadnt increased his credit limit from when he opened his account and
that Mr W hadnt informed them of his financial circumstances (difficulty) at the time of
applying for the credit card.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. She
said she didnt think Aqua had completed reasonable or proportionate checks when agreeing
to give Mr W credit. She said that Aquas checks showed that Mr W had nine active
accounts at the time of the application and given that Mr W had debt of more than half of his
income she thought that it would be proportionate for Aqua to have checked Mr Ws
expenditure to ensure that any payments would be affordable and sustainable. Our
investigator also noted that Mr W had other credit cards with higher credit limits and he was
making low monthly repayments in relation to the outstanding balance. He had also
occasionally exceeded his credit limit on his credit cards, so our investigator felt that Aqua
wouldnt have offered him the credit card had they taken all of these factors into account.
Our investigator also looked at the activity on Mr Ws Aqua account. She said that Mr W
immediately took cash withdrawals which could indicate financial difficulty and he had
exceeded the credit limit on his Aqua account on occasion. Mr W made low payments which
could indicate he wasnt able to make payments in a sustainable way and he had incurred
late payment fees at times. She felt a fair outcome of the complaint would be to refund all
interest and charges applied to the account that Mr W had paid and Aqua should also pay
8% simple interest on that amount from the date the account was opened to the date of
settlement. Our investigator said that if Mr W hadnt paid interest and charges, then Aqua
should rework the account so no interest and charges are applied. If this results in a credit
balance on the account, then Aqua should refund this amount plus 8% simple interest.
Aqua responded to the view of the investigator and queried how seven of Mr Ws twelve
active credit accounts appeared to be approved after the Aqua card but other lenders have
approved Mr W for credit, possibly under similar risk strategies but regardless, further credit
had still been extended. Aqua asked to view Mr Ws bank statements for 2018, which our
investigator provided them.
Aqua reviewed Mr Ws bank statements and said that they reviewed 10 months of
statements, focusing on all of the regular outgoings (and using averages, where possible if
some outgoings had increased/decreased). Aqua said they did not consider non essential
items in the calculations. Aqua surmised that Mr W would have approximately £417
disposable income each month but noted there was £187 worth of additional unsecured debt
outgoings which hadnt been regular over the 10 months and appeared to only start a few
statements in, so they assumed that these were after the Aqua account was approved.
Aqua also said payments had also been made to a payday loans company, but Mr W had
also received funds from the payday loan company. Aqua concluded that even if they had
asked for expenditure, they couldnt have concluded with all certainty, that the outcome of Mr
Ws application would have been different. They said that given the fact that Mr W paid the
account for a period of two years before contacting them for assistance, in itself shows that
he could and did repay the borrowing. Aqua asked for an Ombudsman to review the
complaint.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to make a provisional decision here as Im providing further information and this
will give both parties a chance to respond to what Ive provisionally decided.
Before agreeing to make credit available to Mr W, Aqua needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well the consumer's
personal circumstances.
In isolation the credit limit that Aqua offered to Mr W was proportionate compared with his
income. But there are other factors which persuade me that further checks shouldve been
made to ensure the credit was affordable and sustainable for him and Ill explain these
below.
Ive looked at what checks Aqua said they did prior to the credit card application being
accepted. They used information from credit agencies and saw that Mr W had nine active
accounts/cards. They had no data of any payday loans which were reported to them. But Mr
W did take out a payday loan of £600 the prior month to applying for the credit card. So the
information which they used to accept his application wasnt fully up to date as this would
have reflected that Mr W had an active payday loan when he applied for the Aqua card. So,
as Mr W took out a payday loan shortly before applying for the Aqua credit card, this could
indicate that the Aqua credit card might not be affordable or sustainable for him in the longer
term as he did not have enough disposable income to meet his outgoings. Although Aqua
werent aware of this  as this didnt show up on the information they received from the credit
reference agency, if they had asked Mr W for his outgoings as part of a proportionate check
where he already had several unsecured borrowings, then Im persuaded that he would have
mentioned this and this would have been one reason to prompt them to do further checks
based on the monthly commitment for a payday loan.Upon closer inspection, Mr W had taken five loans of between £150 and £2,300 between
March 2017 and opening his Aqua account. On one hand it may show that Mr W had
existing borrowing that he was able to maintain. But on the other hand this potentially shows
an overall reliance on other forms of borrowing and that Mr W may not be able to maintain
his Aqua credit limit in an affordable and sustainable way. The problem is that Aqua never
asked about this and I think that wouldve been a proportionate step here.
Ive considered what Aqua have said regarding his average outgoings after he was accepted
for his credit card and Im persuaded that they wouldnt have known Mr W would keep taking
further unsecured borrowing. But while Aqua has said that he had disposable income
available after all of the debts were paid on a monthly basis, they didnt know what Mr Ws
expenditure was like in any detail.
So while these figures arent fixed and will fluctuate on a monthly basis, Im persuaded that
its unreasonable not to take into account these types of outgoings when Mr Ws account
conduct shows that he had other regular outgoings. I think its reasonable that Aqua
shouldve looked at his outgoings as part of their checks alongside the number of accounts
opened, him exceeding his credit limits on occasion and the frequency of new unsecured
borrowing in the previous twelve months. Im persuaded that this would have been
proportionate when looking at his credit habits as a whole.
Mr W hadnt had any defaults or County Court Judgments prior to the application. This would
suggest that Mr W hadnt had any major issues in maintaining his payments up to the point
of acceptance. But it also does not show the full picture here and I think its that which was
missing from the assessment. Im persuaded that it would have been proportionate to
investigate the unsecured debt Mr W had in more detail, along with his outgoings prior to
accepting his application. I say this because if these checks had been made then it would
show that Mr W had taken on three pay day loans in the previous 12 months and other
borrowing which may suggest that Mr W was using unsecured borrowing to meet his
outgoings. In addition, it appears from his credit file that he had missed some monthly
payments on a loan prior to taking out the Aqua credit card. But from Aquas checks they
provided me it does not appear that they received information about missed payments. So
as this information wasnt asked for, it would seem appropriate to consider Mr Ws outgoings
to clarify that he was able to manage his unsecured borrowings from his earned income.
I asked Mr W why he took out a £10,000 loan shortly after opening his Aqua account. He
said this was to consolidate his payday loans and other borrowing. I dont think that wouldve
been clear or foreseeable to Aqua from the information it gained here, but I think the
circumstances leading to that loan are something that are likely to have come up if Aqua
spoke to Mr W to discuss his situation in more detail  in a proportionate way. Mr W told us
he had been using payday loans and credit cards to help him pay for his expenditure prior to
taking out the Aqua credit card. And his activity prior to being accepted for the Aqua card
does support this statement based on his bank statements prior to the Aqua card being
accepted.
Mr W asked for his balance to be written off as part of resolving his complaint. It may help if I
say that the general position here is that a business is entitled to ask a customer to repay
money that theyve borrowed. So as an impartial service, we will rarely recommend that a
business writes off a debt where its rightly owed. Here, I think its fair that Mr W repays what
he borrowed from Aqua, but only that amount. I dont think its fair that hes disadvantaged
by having to pay back any more than this. So my decision is that Aqua should remove all
interest and charges applied to the account and recalculate what (if anything) Mr W owes
from the initial amount he borrowed. As Im persuaded that had Aqua completed further
checks which may have changed their decision to accept Mr W for the credit card, then I
think it would also be fair that Aqua put Mr W in the same position he was in prior to theiracceptance of the credit card. They should do this by removing any adverse information from
Mr Ws credit file relating to the Aqua credit card.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision then my final decision and reasoning 
remain the same. It follows that Ill now be telling Aqua what theyll need to do to put things 
right here.   
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Aqua should remove all interest and charges applied 
to the account and recalculate what (if anything) Mr W owes from the initial amount he 
borrowed. I also suggested Aqua remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file 
relating to the Aqua credit card. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should remove all interest and charges 
applied to the account and recalculate what (if anything) Mr W owes from the initial amount 
he borrowed.
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit 
file relating to the Aqua credit card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman