DRN-2783231
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his motor insurance claim. 
In this matter, UKI is trading as Churchill, but for the purposes of this decision Ive referred to 
UKI throughout.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr Js car was unfortunately in an accident. Following an assessment of 
the car UKI concluded the car was beyond economical repair and agreed to pay the claim for 
the market value of the car. 
During the course of the claim Mr J requested to buy back the car as he had someone who 
would be able to fix it for him. UKI agreed a price with Mr J for him to buy the car back, and 
Mr J obtained the required parts to complete the repairs. 
Unfortunately due to an error on UKIs part, before Mr J was able to buy back the car, UKI 
disposed of the car themselves.
 
Mr J was extremely disappointed in this as he had made clear his intention to repair and 
keep the car as it had sentimental value to him.
 
UKI accepted they should not have disposed of the car given theyd agreed to sell it back to 
Mr J, and to recognise the error they offered Mr J £350 which he didnt accept. After bringing 
the complaint to our service, UKI told us they would increase the offer to £500  but Mr J told 
us he still didnt wish to accept the offer and was looking for something closer to the buy 
back price, which was in the region of £3,000. 
Our investigator reviewed things and noted Mr J hadnt been left out of pocket as he had 
been able to return the car parts hed obtained to repair the car and UKI had paid the claim. 
The investigator noted the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr J, but felt that the offer of 
£500 was fair in the circumstances. As Mr J didnt accept this, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepts they committed an error when they disposed of Mr Js car after agreeing with 
him that he could buy it back  so theres no need for me to look into or comment on this. 
Whats left for me to decide is whether the offer of £500 is fair to reflect whats happened. 
Neither party has disputed that the claim was paid for the market value of the car. And Im 
mindful that had Mr J bought the car back, then the claim paid wouldve been reduced by the 
cost of buying back the car. So I dont think Mr J has lost out in this sense. Mr J has also let 
us know he was able to return the parts obtained to repair the car, so again I cant see that 
he has financially lost out here either. 
I understand from Mr Js submissions the car held sentimental value for him. And where 
there has been a loss of expectation or theres been an emotional impact, its difficult to put a 
price on how much such a loss might mean to someone. 
Whats happened is no doubt upsetting and frustrating for Mr J, but I think the £500 is fair to 
reflect the inconvenience to Mr J of having to deal with the car parts he obtained and to 
recognise there has been a personal impact of not being able to keep the car.
 
It might help Mr J to know that our service does not fine or punish firms  that is the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And while I agree with the investigator that 
£500 is a reasonable offer in the circumstances, I say this with no intention to diminish the 
upset the matter has caused Mr J.  
Putting things right
To put things right UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill should pay Mr J £500 if it has 
not already done so. 
My final decision
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr J, but for the reasons above I think the offer of 
£500 is fair in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman