DRN-3185652
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited administered his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F changed his car and then wanted a renewal quote from Admiral. He called it three 
times to ask for this and proof of his No Claims Bonus (NCB). He said he had a poor 
experience in contacting Admiral by phone and using its webchat. Admiral didnt return his 
calls as promised. And then he was provided with incorrect proof of NCB and for the wrong 
car. Admiral said this was due to the agents errors due to the changes Mr F had made. It 
offered him an apology and £200 compensation for his trouble and upset. But Mr F was 
unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
hadnt provided its expected level of service. But she thought its offer of redress was fair and 
reasonable. She didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
Mr F replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed, so its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral agreed that it hadnt provided Mr F with the correct documents in a timely manner. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
From what I can see, Mr F was finally provided with his correct documents, so I think that 
restores his position. I cant see that this experience caused Mr F any financial loss. But he 
did have the inconvenience of unnecessarily spending time on phone calls and other 
communication means. So Ive then considered the impact the errors had on Mr F. 
I can see that the problems started when Mr F cancelled his auto-renewal with Admiral and 
then changed his car. He then wanted a quote from Admiral for the new car in the new policy 
year. But there were problems:
Mr F said he called Admiral three times, with call waits of 45 minutes, but the promised 
quote and NCB proof didnt arrive. I can understand that this must have been frustrating for 
him. 
Mr F then tried webchat, but the agent lost his connection and Mr F was transferred to 
another agent to continue the process. Mr F was unhappy with this, but I cant see that 
anything untoward happened. 
Im satisfied that the new agent tried to understand and to resolve matters for Mr F, as I 
would expect. But Mr F wanted to raise a complaint and he was promised a call back within 
72 hours.
Unfortunately this didnt happen until a day later than promised. I can understand that Mr F 
felt frustrated by this, but I think Admirals explanation of the limitations due to the current 
pandemic and providing a service to all its customers was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F wanted a quote for his new car before he bought it, but Admiral wouldnt provide him 
with a quote due to his intended modifications. Admiral agreed that it should have provided 
the quote for the car without the modifications and then left it to Mr F to decide whether or 
not to modify the car and so cancel the policy mid-term. So Admiral didnt provide Mr F with 
the quote he wanted.  
Admiral agreed that it had provided confusing proof of NCB and policy lapse documents to 
Mr F. It said this was due to its system not updating the change of car due to the cancelled 
auto-renewal. From what I can see, Mr F was threatened with cancellation by his alternative 
insurer because he couldnt provide the correct NCB proof. I think this must have been 
stressful for him.
Admiral paid Mr F £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its level of 
service. I can understand that Mr F had a frustrating and stressful experience. But I think this 
award is fair and reasonable as Im satisfied that it reflects the impact its errors had on Mr F 
and its in keeping with our published guidance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman