DRN-2976833
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc treated her when closing 
her accounts. Miss S would like an explanation as to why her accounts were closed, an 
apology for how she was treated and financial compensation.
What happened
Miss S held an account with Nat West. In October 2020, Nat West carried out a review on 
Miss S account and decided to end their banking relationship with her. They issued Miss S 
with 14 days notice to close her account but suspended her activity immediately. 
As part of the account closure, Miss S was required to fill in and complete a funds release 
form. This form allows Nat West to transfer any money left in the account to Miss S. The 
form was completed and received on 2 November 2020. The form confirmed the money 
could take up to 60 working days to be transferred.
Nat West transferred Miss S money to another account in Miss S name, as shed 
requested, on 26 January 2021. Nat West said they were still within the 60-day timeframe to 
make the transfer.
Miss S complained. She wanted to know why Nat West made the decision to close her 
account and wanted an apology. She said shed spent time trying to put things right and had 
to borrow money from family to feed her children. 
Nat West responded to Miss S complaint and said they were allowed to close an account 
with immediate notice in certain circumstances and didnt have to give a reason. Miss S 
remained unhappy so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss S complaint. He said Nat West were entitled to take the 
action they did and didnt cause any delays. Miss S disagreed. She said the way she was 
treated left her feeling suicidal so just because Nat West were acting in line with their 
obligations, doesnt mean they should be able to treat people like the way they treated her. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss S complaint and dont think Nat West need to do 
anything to put things right. I know this will be disappointing news to Miss S  Ive explained 
my reasons below.
Nat West are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Nat West was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Miss S account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Nat West didnt tell Miss S about the review  but theyre not obliged to, and as 
they didnt restrict Miss S account for the review itself, it likely wouldnt have made much 
difference to her. Nat West hasnt shared any information about why they took the action of 
closing Miss S account with Miss S  and theyre not obliged to. Im aware Miss S thinks its 
because of her trading cryptocurrencies. Im not able to share the reasons with Miss S but Id 
like to reassure her that based on the evidence Ive seen and the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied Nat West were fair in their actions. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Miss S decided to stop banking with Nat West, she wouldnt have to explain why. 
Nat West can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Nat West have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Miss S account  and helpfully pointed out the specific term they relied on when doing so in 
their final response to Miss S. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial 
discretion. Nat West exercised their right to no longer offer Miss S banking facilities and I've 
seen nothing to suggest that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to 
do anything differently. 
Nat Wests policy states that funds can take up to 60 working days to be released. Im 
pleased to see Miss S money was transferred before this time. I appreciate it would have 
been extremely difficult for Miss S to go without her money  shes explained how she had a 
family to look after. Ive no doubt it would have been a really challenging time, but that in 
itself doesnt mean Nat West did anything wrong. A bank cant always guarantee that funds 
in an account are readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which 
they have to comply. 
Miss S has said the way Nat West treated her left her feeling suicidal. Ive listened to phone 
calls between Nat West and Miss S. I agree at times Miss S would have been left feeling like 
she hadnt been helped. The advisors couldnt tell her why the decision had been made to 
close the account and couldnt process certain tasks. Ive explained above why I think the 
account closure was fair. So, while I recognise the position Miss S found herself in, I cant 
fairly uphold Miss S complaint as Id need to be satisfied Nat West did something wrong  
and having looked at everything, I dont think they did.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman