DRN-1016121
 
complaint
Mrs B says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs B took out with a personal reserve account in 1998. 
Its been agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill 
refer to Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about it. 
Mrs B says she was told she needed the insurance and led to believe it was required. But 
she hasnt given us much detail on what was said or what made her think this.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mrs Bs application form for the personal reserve account. This 
included a section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if Mrs B wanted to take it out and space for 
the name and date of birth of the person being covered to be filled in. The box has been 
ticked and Mrs Bs name and date of birth have been filled in.
Based on this, I think Allianz did make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mrs B chose to take it.
Mrs B has said she only took the PPI because it was strongly recommended by Allianz. But I 
dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that Allianz unfairly pressured Mrs B into 
taking the PPI.
I havent seen clear evidence that Allianz gave Mrs B any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for Mrs B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
Mrs B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And 
it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings or other means she had to make 
her repayments if she wasnt earning. So I think the PPI would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking it out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman