DRN-2384288
The complaint
Mr S complains that DTW Associates Limited, trading as Auto Advance, (DTW), lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr S was given a loan by DTW on 7 December 2015 for £1,500. The loan was repayable by 
24 payments of £167.50. It was repaid on 21 December 2017. The interest rate was 84%. The 
total amount Mr S needed to repay was £4,020 meaning he needed to repay £2,520 in interest 
for the amount he borrowed. The loan was a log book loan. It was granted on the basis that 
Mr S provided DTW with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr S didnt make his loan 
repayments, DTW could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the car. 
Mr S said that he didnt believe that DTW had carried out tough enough checks. If it had, it 
would have seen that he had numerous other loans he was in arrears with and he couldnt 
afford another loan. When he paid the loan repayments, he had to borrow again to get 
through the next month. His credit report and bank statements would have shown other debt 
repayments and problems. 
Our adjudicators views
The adjudicators initial view recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
DTW responded, in summary, to say: -
1. Mr S was obtaining a term loan as a more suitable product than high cost short term 
credit loans, which required a full balance repayment each month. 
2. The loan repayments Mr S made in October 2015 were not seen in November's 
transactions, therefore the balances had been repaid.
3. Mr S had an arranged overdraft limit of £1,870, which he did not exceed.
4. Mr S's intent was to clear existing debt and his then need for short term loans, and the 
amount borrowed of £1,500 allowed him to clear his payday loans. He was replacing 
these repayments with a significantly smaller and manageable figure, repaid over 24 
months with the cost being significantly less than the short term loans.
The adjudicator then provided a second assessment. She noted that DTW had said that the 
reason for the loan was for Mr S to clear his debts. Whilst she appreciated that Mr S did 
have a number of short term loans, the money he borrowed from DTW would have allowed 
him to repay those loans. So, she had taken off any incoming short term loans from his 
expenses. She could see that Mr Ss income was around £1,706, and his expenses without 
any incoming short term loans were £1,462 which meant that he would be left with a 
disposable income of £244.38, which was sufficient to repay DTWs loan. So, she believed 
that the checks carried out by DTW would have shown that Mr S was able to afford the 
repayment of the loan.
Mr S didnt accept that assessment. He said that despite borrowing enough to cover some of 
his debts, the amount was not even enough to clear his overdraft. This should have made it 
obvious he was in trouble and not able to keep up with payments. 
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to DTW on 8 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
I firstly set out the regulatory framework.
The regulatory framework
DTW was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) throughout 
the period it lent to Mr S. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms were 
required to follow were set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) 
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms were required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, said
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves were set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle 
here was PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which said:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This set out the rules which applied to providers of consumer credit like DTW. CONC 5 set 
out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 set out a firms 
obligations after a consumer had entered into a regulated agreement.
I said there was a high degree of alignment between the guidance from the previous 
regulator - the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) - Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) first 
published in March 2010 and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. The FCAs CONC 
rules specifically noted and referred back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which 
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) said:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, 
for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the 
customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability.
CONC 5.3.1G(1) said:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay 
the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then said:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) went on to say:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
without undue difficulties, in particular:
(a) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(b) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
had a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and stated:
(a)   it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R said that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Other relevant publications and good industry practiceCONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers had to 
adhere to. But they represented a minimum standard for firms. I was also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I considered to have been good industry practice.
The FCAs Portfolio Strategy Letter to firms providing high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all 
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers and the markets they operate in. On
page two of this letter, the FCA set out its view of the key causes of harm. It said:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed 
their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across the 
High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may not 
be able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it said:
We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, including analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman Services relevant 
decisions.
What this means for Mr Ss complaint
The regulations in place at the time DTW lent to Mr S required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr S could afford to repay his loans in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused. So, DTW had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr S. It wasnt enough for a lender to think only about the likelihood that it would get its 
money back without considering the impact of repayment on a consumer. So even in this 
case where Mr S had provided security for his loan in the form of a bill of sale for his car, this 
didnt absolve DTW of its obligation to assess whether in the first instance Mr S could meet 
his repayments without undue difficulty. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constituted a proportionate affordability check would be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they were seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check would more likely than not look different for different 
loan applications.In view of this, Id thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was likely 
to be greater and the customer was required to make payments for an extended period); 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did DTW complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- Did DTW make a fair lending decision?
DTW had gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed the loan. I could see that 
DTW had asked Mr S for information about his income and expenses. DTW didnt carry out 
a credit check. But it wasnt required to do so. 
Id noted that Mr S initially applied for a loan on 1 December 2015 and his application was 
declined the following day. DTWs notes then showed that Mr S had said on                          
7 December 2015 that he was wanting to clear his debts and he was asked to send DTW his 
bank statements. It seemed on the face of it that DTW had carried out reasonable checks by 
requesting Mr Ss bank statements and payslip in addition to asking about his income and 
expenses. However, as Id explained in my provisional decision, Id thought the information it 
gathered should have raised concerns and prompted further checks.
Id noted that in Mr Ss application form, hed declared total expenses of £800 including credit 
commitments of £50. The form showed that he had a disposable income of £906.98 and that 
the application was approved on 7 December 2015. DTW then said in its final response letter: 
Our underwriting decision was based purely on your circumstances at that time based on 
your application declaration and supported by bank statements. You provided statements 
from 30/09/2015  27/11/2015. We calculated from this date range by a line by line review 
your average income was actually £1706.88 a month. From your bank statements we saw 
your overall expenditure was £1468.17 including credit commitments of £348.01 a month, 
leaving you an average disposable income of £246.97 a month. In your phone calls with our 
team it is noted that the purpose of the loan was to pay off your existing credit which would 
significantly lower your expenditure. We took this in to account when reviewing your bank 
statements and calculated based on your expenditure patterns at that time and even without 
clearing your existing credit commitments you could afford our repayment of £167.50 a 
month. This investigation has led me to agree with our original underwriting decision that 
this loan was approved responsibly and with all due diligence with the information available 
to ensure the repayment was affordable.
I cant see that this service had received a recording of the phone calls DTW referred to or 
any detailed information about the conversations. Id noted that Mr S had supplied information in his application form about his expenses for 
housing, food, utilities and credit commitments. Hed said that his credit commitments were 
£50, and his expenses totalled £800. DTW increased the expenditure information Mr S 
provided to it after reviewing Mr Ss bank statements. Id noted that the information DTW 
saw on the bank statements led it to say that Mr Ss credit commitments were £348.01 a 
month and the total expenditure was £1,468.17.
The rules that applied to DTW at the time expressly said it mustnt accept an application for 
credit if it knew or had reasonable cause to suspect that Mr S hadnt been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment. Id thought DTW should have had concerns about Mr Ss financial situation 
because there was a discrepancy between what Mr S had said about his existing credit and 
what it could see through its bank statement checks. 
I could also see that DTW believed that even without clearing Mr Ss existing credit 
commitments, he could afford its loan repayments. Id noted that DTWs affordability 
assessment left Mr S with around £79 a month (for two years) to meet any unexpected or 
seasonal costs. Id thought leaving Mr S with this margin each month meant it would be 
highly likely he would have difficulty meeting his loan repayments without borrowing further. 
I could see from DTWs loan account statement that Mr S did have difficulty meeting his loan 
repayments. He was unable to make his repayments from June 2016 until January 2017.   
Mr S told this Service:
I was unable to afford to pay any money to [DTW] properly till around Feb 2017.. I think 
they were threatening to take my car by that point so I prioritised this debt over others and 
began to attempt to pay it off. I was also still borrowing from payday lenders at this time, had 
a [credit card], a loan with [a high cost credit lender] and still lived mainly in my overdraft.
Id also noted from DTWs loan account statement that Mr S had paid £1,000 into his loan 
account around 9 February 2016 (shortly after hed taken the loan out). I asked the 
adjudicator to ask Mr S how hed managed to pay this amount. Mr S said:
In Feb 2016 I was unexpectedly given some money as a gift by a relative so I thought I'd 
use it to attempt to clear my debt quicker by paying off a lump sum early and hopefully 
reduce the interest owing. I was told by the company that wasn't possible and it turned out I 
still struggled to meet my other debt payments so I was unable to afford to continue paying 
the [DTW] loan.
The lender did provide this Service with copies of the bank statements Mr S supplied to it 
during the application process. These covered the period 30 September 2015 to                  
27 November 2015. Id carefully reviewed these statements.
The bank statements for the period 30 September 2015 to 29 October 2015 (the first 
statements) show Mr Ss income as £1,706.78 and regular expenses and short term loan 
commitments totalling around £1,547. In addition, Mr S made cash withdrawals of around £290. 
The bank statements for the period 30 October 2015 to 27 November 2015 (the second 
statements) show Mr Ss income as £1,706.98 and regular expenses and short term loan 
commitments totalling around £686. In addition, Mr S made cash withdrawals of £420. 
But as the second statements ended on 27 November 2015, they didnt provide a complete 
picture of Mr Ss expenditure for the whole of that month (November 2015). I could see from 
the first statements that around £1,270 was spent on expenses on 28/29 October 2015 after 
Mr S was paid. These expenses included housing costs of £850 and short term loan 
repayments of around £277. It didnt appear the lender was aware of Mr Ss expenses after                   27 November 2015 and I hadnt seen anything to suggest that it had asked Mr S for 
information about these. But Id thought this wouldve been a reasonable thing to do given 
what the first statements showed. 
So overall, I didnt think the checks DTW carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. It needed to do more to get a thorough understanding of Mr Ss financial 
position to reasonably assess the risk to Mr S of not managing to meet his repayments 
sustainably. At the least, Id thought DTW needed to obtain a complete picture of Mr Ss 
financial circumstances as it was clear from the statements it had seen that Mr Ss expenses 
fluctuated. In the previous month theyd come to more than Mr Ss income. DTW would also 
have seen from the statements it had that Mr S seemed to be dependent on short term loans 
and given the circumstances, Id thought it would have been proportionate to have seen the 
complete picture on these especially as hed asked to consolidate them. And in any event, it 
seemed that DTW already had concerns about Mr Ss finances as it had declined him for a 
loan the previous week.
Id noted that Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with DTW. He needed to 
make monthly repayments of £167.50 for two years. And what it had obtained was an 
incomplete picture of Mr Ss financial situation. This shouldnt have been the basis of an 
assessment of the affordability of this loan over two years given Mr Ss finances were 
already showing signs of possible strain. Id also thought DTW ought to have been 
concerned about Mr Ss ability to repay this loan out of his usual means, without borrowing, 
as he wasnt managing to do so with his existing debt. There was also the potential for Mr S 
losing his car if he ran into difficulty making payments.
So, Id thought about what DTW wouldve seen if it had done what Id considered to be 
proportionate checks. Id asked the adjudicator to ask Mr S for a copy of his statement for 
the month beginning 28 November 2015 (the third statement) to obtain a complete picture 
of Mr Ss expenditure for November 2015 and Id looked at his credit file record. I wasnt 
suggesting that these were the checks that DTW should have done. But Id thought this 
information gave me the best picture of what the lender should have seen. Had it obtained a 
complete picture of Mr Ss spending, Id thought DTW wouldve been in a better position to 
understand Mr Ss financial situation before it decided to lend to him. 
Id reviewed the third statement to see what better checks would have shown. I could see 
that Mr S spent around £1,000 on regular expenses and around £1,322 on loan repayments 
in November 2015. So, as was the case the previous month, his total regular expenses and 
short term loan repayments for November 2015 were over £3,000 and this time substantially 
exceeded his income. I could also see that in the period 30 November 2015 to                      
1 December 2015, Mr S had taken out another three short term loans totalling £550. 
Id noted that DTW said that based on Mr Ss reason for obtaining the loan - to clear his debt 
- the loan was affordable based on his verified income and expenses including its loan 
repayment fee. It said that Mr Ss intent was to clear his existing debt and need for short 
term loans, and the amount borrowed of £1,500 allowed him to clear his payday loans. He 
was replacing these repayments with a significantly smaller and manageable figure, repaid 
over 24 months with the cost being significantly less than the short term loans. So, it didnt 
think that it had acted inappropriately and maintained that the loan was suitable for Mr Ss 
needs, affordable and sustainable.
I didnt know the amount of Mr Ss debts and which of his debts were being repaid by the 
loan. Id asked the adjudicator to ask the lender if it was aware of the amount of credit to be 
repaid. DTW didnt provide a response. Id seen Mr Ss credit report as well as his bank 
statements and it was clear to me from what Id seen that not all of Mr Ss debts could have been cleared by DTWs loan. But further checks would likely have shown DTW that Mr S had 
total debts somewhat larger than the loan amount. 
I could also see that DTW would have been aware from the bank statements it saw that Mr S 
was very near his overdraft limit of £1,870 and that he had at least two credit cards. It 
wouldnt have known the balances on the credit card accounts from the bank statements or 
how hed managed these accounts. But I could see from Mr Ss credit report that they both 
appeared to be over their respective credit limits (totalling £1,900). I could also see from       
Mr Ss credit report that he had two loans that didnt appear on his bank statements (totalling 
around £1,670). And DTW would have seen on the second statements it had that Mr S had 
received short term loans totalling £780 and that he was already paying two other high cost 
credit providers. 
Had DTW looked into Mr Ss finances in more depth, Id thought it was likely DTW would 
have seen that the amount of its loan wouldnt have been sufficient to repay the short term 
loans (and interest thereon) that Mr S had taken out since 2 November 2015, let alone his 
other credit. I also thought it would have likely found out that he was reliant on short term 
lending. Mr S was borrowing a significant amount of short term loans each month just to fund 
his existing expenditure and credit commitments, Id thought there was a very real prospect 
that he would need to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely have 
a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
Id noted that DTW referred to certain of Mr Ss short term loan balances being repaid in 
October 2015 as they hadnt appeared in the second statements. Id seen from Mr Ss first 
statements that he was making payments to four short term loan providers on 
28/29 October 2015. I could see from the third statement that all these loans were still being 
repaid at the end of November 2015. So, DTW had incorrectly concluded that they had been 
repaid in October 2015.
DTW also said that Mr S was obtaining a term loan as a more suitable product than high 
cost short term credit loans, which required a full balance repayment each month. 
It was clear from the two bank statements supplied by DTW that Mr S had been borrowing 
and repaying several loans over both statements periods. Most of the loans appeared to be 
short term loans. But it wasnt clear from those two statements whether these were 
repayable by one full balance repayment or by several monthly instalments. The third 
statement showed that the loans were instalment loans and not repayable by one full 
balance repayment. 
In addition, DTW said that by using its loan to clear Mr Ss existing debt, his repayments 
would be significantly smaller with the cost being significantly less than the short term loans. 
But I also thought it was important to note that whilst the interest rate on the loan might have 
been lower than on his existing payday loans, it was going to be repaid over two years and 
so Mr S was going to repay over £2,500 in interest on it. So, in addition to repaying the 
capital of £1,500, Mr S was due to pay an additional 166% in interest provided he complied 
with the credit agreement. If Mr S got into arrears, it couldve been more. But the cost of 
short term loans was capped at 100%. From January 2015, short term loan providers 
couldnt charge a borrower more than 100% of the amount initially borrowed. So, over the 
loan term, DTWs loan could very well have been significantly more costly for Mr S than the 
short term loans he might have repaid with DTWs loan. So, I didnt agree with DTWs 
statement that the cost of its loan was significantly less than Mr Ss short term loans.
Altogether I didnt think that DTW had treated Mr S fairly when it agreed to lend to him. I 
didnt think DTW had a complete picture of Mr Ss financial circumstances when it agreed to 
provide the loan and I didnt think it was responsible of DTW to provide Mr S with this expensive loan based on the information it had gathered. He was going to have to repay 
over £4,000 altogether. And it was likely that agreeing more credit for him would simply add 
to his debt levels. The assessment it was required to make included considering the risk to 
Mr S of not being able to repay the loan sustainably over the lifetime of the loan. Id thought 
proportionate checks would have identified that there was a risk that Mr S wouldnt be able 
to do this without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty and DTW wouldnt have 
provided the loan. As DTW had failed to do this, Id said it acted unfairly towards Mr S. So, 
Id intended to say that I was satisfied that this complaint should be upheld. 
As Mr S ended up paying interest and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been given, Id 
thought that he lost out because of what DTW did wrong. So, Id thought that DTW needed 
to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what DTW needed to do to put things right for Mr S
 
Id carefully thought about what amounted to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that 
a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean DTW putting Mr S in the 
position hed now be in if he hadnt been given the loan.
 
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr S 
was given the loan in question and hed used the funds. So, in these circumstances, I 
couldnt undo what had already been done. And it was simply not possible to put Mr S back 
in the position he would have been in if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
 
As this was the case, I had to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id explained the 
reasons why Id thought that it would be fair and reasonable for DTW to put things right. 
Interest and charges on the loan Mr S shouldnt have been given
 
As Id explained, DTW ought to have realised that it was providing Mr S with a loan that hed 
more likely than not be unable to sustainably repay. And in reality, it was the interest that Mr S 
had to pay DTW that was the problem, as he would have kept having to find additional funds 
(usually through borrowing elsewhere) to pay the interest on his loan. So, I said that DTW 
should refund all the interest on the loan that Mr S had paid, as well as any fees and charges 
hed paid.
It was also clear to see that Mr S had lost the use of the funds hed used to pay the interest. 
As Mr S had lost the use of these funds, Id thought that he should be compensated for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where a consumer hadnt had the use 
of funds because its actions resulted in something having gone wrong. Bearing in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph above, Id seen no reason to depart from our usual approach 
here and Id thought awarding 8% per year simple interest, on the interest and charges that 
were paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr Ss credit file
 
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the loans they shouldnt have been given. Id seen no 
reason to depart from our typical approach in this case. So, Id thought that DTW should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to the loan. Subject to any further representations by Mr S or DTW my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order DTW to put things right as follows. 
1. Refund all interest, fees and charges paid by Mr S;
2. Add 8% simple interest to these payments from the date they were made to the date the 
complaint is settled*;
3. Remove any adverse information on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires DTW to take off tax from this interest. DTW must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that he exceeded his overdraft limit 
regularly and wasnt keeping within his overdraft limit.
DTW disagreed with my provisional decision and raised a number of issues. I list below 
DTWs main points:-
1. DTW referred to my statement that Mr S had been declined for a loan. It said that   
Mr S wasnt declined for a loan on 2nd December 2015. But when a customer 
applies twice in error, the only way it can remove the duplicate application is to 
decline it on the system, which is what happened in this instance. It was concerned 
that the term could lead to a misunderstanding of the data and had prejudiced my 
decision.
2. It expected Mr S to reduce his credit commitments and monthly outgoings by means 
of its loan. Its underwriter considered the customers intent of using the funded 
amount to settle a proportion of his short term loans to be advantageous to the 
customer rather than increasing their credit risk.
3. Mr S was unable to provide it with transactional data from online banking and opted 
to use full statements. It said that I had used future dated bank statements that were 
not available to it at the point of underwriting the loan. As the customer was unable to 
use online banking, it did not agree that it was proportionate to decline underwriting 
or postpone the loan until Decembers statement was posted to Mr S. DTW carefully 
considered the data it used and considered the date to date range to ensure that 
multiple, and unequal, expenses or incomes were not unfairly considered.
4. It referred to my statement that DTW would have seen on the second statements it 
had that Mr S had received short term loans totalling £780. It said that the only 
money in aside from Mr Ss salary was £400 over the two months statements.
5. It referred to my statement that in November 2015 Mr S spent around £1,322 on loan 
repayments. It said that based on the amount of credit commitment payments seen 
on the two full statements, and the fact that there was only £400 new funding from 
loans in October and November (up to 27 November 2015), it would not be realistic 
to assume such a jump in outgoings. It said that it could be argued that this increase 
was due to clearing some of these loans rather than merely paying interest. 
6. It referred to Mr Ss credit report and queried whether the account settlement dates 
had been reviewed and considered to evidence my findings.
7. It referred to my statement as was the case the previous month, his total regular 
expenses and short term loan repayments for November 2015 were over £3,000 It said that Mr Ss bank statements did not show that his outgoings were £3,000 in 
October 2015.
8. It asked for an explanation or clarification on my comment: If Mr S got into arrears, it 
couldve been more. It wished to understand the basis for this assumption.
9. It said that at no point in my decision has the customers monthly affordability been 
considered. It noted that consolidating a number of loans with short term capital and 
interest repayment terms, would likely result in a significantly lower monthly outgoing 
and assist the customer in managing the situation he found himself in. 
10. The lender said that whilst future data and Mr Ss later actions demonstrated that it 
may have been appropriate to not lend to Mr S, it did not accept that the decision 
made on the day was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time.
I note that Mr S said that he had exceeded his overdraft limit regularly. I can see that he did 
exceed his overdraft limit for about a week during the period of the first statements and for 
about two days during the period of the second statements which DTW would have seen. 
I have considered carefully DTWs response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have 
agreed the loan for Mr S. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also 
responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision below. Ive used the 
same numbering as above.
1.I note DTWs explanation. But Id like to reassure DTW that the reference to the decline 
on 2 December 2015 didnt affect my overall decision.  
2. I note that DTWs underwriter considered Mr Ss intent of using the funded amount to 
settle a proportion of his short term loans to be advantageous to him rather than increasing 
his credit risk. But I couldnt see that the underwriter had obtained sufficient information 
about the extent of Mr Ss borrowing and the amount of his borrowing to be repaid from 
DTWs loan. The extent of Mr Ss borrowing was such that there remained at least 11 loans 
to be repaid the following month as seen in my response to 5. below.
3. I think that a review of the first statements would have clearly shown that Mr S spent a large 
part of his income after he was paid at the end of the month. I didnt think DTW would have had 
a complete picture of Mr Ss expenditure for November 2015 without knowing what was leaving 
his account at the end of that month. As Id said above:-
 The bank statements for the period 30 September 2015 to 29 October 2015 (the first 
statements) show Mr Ss income as £1,706.78 and regular expenses and short term loan 
commitments totalling around £1,547. In addition, Mr S made cash withdrawals of around £290. The bank statements for the period 30 October 2015 to 27 November 2015 (the second 
statements) show Mr Ss income as £1,706.98 and regular expenses and short term loan 
commitments totalling around £686. In addition, Mr S made cash withdrawals of £420. 
But as the second statements ended on 27 November 2015, they didnt provide a complete 
picture of Mr Ss expenditure for the whole of that month. I could see from the first 
statements that around £1,270 was spent on expenses on 28/29 October 2015 after Mr S 
was paid. These expenses included housing costs of £850 and short term loan repayments 
of around £277. It didnt appear the lender was aware of Mr Ss expenses after                   
27 November 2015 and I hadnt seen anything to suggest that it had asked Mr S for 
information about these. But Id thought this wouldve been a reasonable thing to do given 
what the first statements showed.
4.The borrowing Id seen on the second statements was £400 borrowed on                              
2 November 2015, £80 borrowed on 9 November 2015, and £300 borrowed on                    
18 November 2015. These totalled £780 as stated above.
5. As Ive said above, I can see that in the month of November 2015 Mr S spent around 
£1,322 on loan repayments. I can see that he was making repayments to around 15 loans 
that month. Fourteen of these repayments were made on 27 and 28 November 2015 
following payment of Mr Ss salary. Hence, I thought it was important for DTW to have 
checked Mr Ss financial situation for the whole month of November 2015. It is not clear 
whether some of these loans were repaid that month. Most of the loans were not mentioned 
on Mr Ss credit report. But I can see from Mr Ss bank statement for January 2016 and his 
credit report that in January 2016, he still had 11 loans to repay.
6. I had checked Mr Ss credit report to see the various account settlement dates, although 
as Id said above most of the accounts were not shown in his credit report. 
7. The point I wished to make by this statement was that Mr Ss expenses exceeded his 
income both in October and November 2015.
8. I note that the loan agreement sets out the various default charges payable by Mr S 
should he get into arrears. So, Mr S would have paid such default charges in addition to his 
repayment amounts.
9. I note that DTW said that at no point in my decision had the customers monthly 
affordability been considered. But I think DTW was required to establish whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loan and not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. Whilst the loan payments being affordable on this basis might 
be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments, it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
10. I note that DTW did not accept that the decision it made on the day was unfair. But I still 
disagree with this for all the reasons set out above.
I want to reassure the parties that I have thought carefully about everything again but for the 
reasons set out above, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions. It follows that I 
uphold Mr Ss complaint and require DTW to put things right as set out below.
   My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order DTW Associates Limited, trading as Auto Advance, to:
1. Refund all interest, fees and charges paid by Mr S;
2. Add 8% simple interest to these payments from the date they were made to the date 
the complaint is settled*; and
3. Remove any adverse information on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires DTW to take off tax from this interest. DTW must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman