DRN-3429306
The complaint
Mr G complains about the handling of his claim on his home insurance policy by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
References to AXA include the agents it appointed to act on its behalf in connection with 
Mr Gs claim.
What happened
Mr G had a home insurance policy with AXA and made a claim, which AXA accepted, for 
damage caused by a water leak in his bathroom. 
Although Mr G was the policyholder, it was Mrs G who largely dealt with AXA throughout the 
claim.
In very brief outline, Mrs G says AXAs handling of the claim caused her so much stress it 
made her physically ill and gave her panic attacks. Among other things, Mrs G says AXA 
was rude and patronising towards her and embarrassed her by harassing the contractor 
from whom she and Mr G had got a quote for repairs. Mr G and Mrs G also have concerns 
about AXAs approach to the settlement of the claim and the length of time it took to agree it.
Ultimately, AXA settled Mr Gs claim based on a revised quotation from his own contractor 
(minus his policy excess). It also offered Mr G and Mrs G an apology and paid £350 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused them 
and for some slight delays in progressing it.
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy with the compensation AXA has paid, saying £1,000 would 
better reflect the impact the experience has had on Mrs G in particular. So Mr G brought the 
complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. He thought both the way in which AXA had 
settled the claim and the compensation of £350 it had paid Mr G and Mrs G were fair. And 
he didnt think AXA was responsible for any avoidable delays in handling the claim.
Mr G and Mrs G disagree and so Mr Gs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why by looking at  
Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint points as follows.
Compensation
Mrs G has described in some detail the mental and physical impact AXAs handling of        
Mr Gs claim has had on her. She and Mr G would like compensation in total of £1,000 for 
the distress and inconvenience AXA has caused (that is, another £650, AXA already having 
paid £350).
The policy in this case is in Mr Gs name. So while Mrs G has been Mr Gs representative in 
dealing with the claim with AXA, she isnt a policyholder. I can see from what Mrs G has told 
us about the experience shes had, and from listening to the call recordings we have of her 
conversations with AXA, that assisting Mr G with the claim has been at times very difficult 
and stressful for her. But because Mr G is the policyholder, our primary focus must be on the 
impact AXAs dealing with the claim has had on him. 
From what Ive seen, the award AXA has paid of £350 reflects the impact on Mr G of the 
poor service hes had. So I dont think an award of additional compensation would be fair 
and reasonable here.
The settlement amount
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Gs home insurance policy, in broad terms, AXA was 
entitled to settle the claim by repairing or replacing the damage to his and Mrs Gs home. His 
policy goes on to say that, where AXA offers to repair damage through its preferred supplier 
but agrees a cash settlement, that settlement wont exceed the amount it wouldve paid its 
preferred supplier.
From the claim notes AXA has given us, from the start, Mrs G wanted to use hers and        
Mr Gs contractor to carry out the repairs. AXA says it initially offered a cash settlement 
based on its surveyors assessment of the repair costs. This was much lower than              
Mr G and Mrs Gs contractors quote, so Mr G and Mrs G rejected it. AXA then spoke to their 
contractor, who reduced his quote  but AXA says in its view the quote was still high. So 
AXA says it then offered Mr G and Mrs G its own contractors to complete the repairs  but 
they rejected this offer because, as Ive said, they wanted to use their own contractor. In the 
end, AXA agreed to cash settle the claim based on Mr G and Mrs Gs contractors revised 
quote (minus Mr Gs policy excess).
Under Mr Gs policy terms, because AXA agreed to cash settle Mr Gs claim at his and     
Mrs Gs request, its obligation was to pay Mr G the amount it wouldve paid its preferred 
supplier to carry out the repairs. It did more than that by agreeing to settle in cash based on 
Mr G and Mrs Gs contractors quote which, as Ive said, was higher. I cant say AXA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in doing this.
The time taken to settle the claim
From what Ive seen, AXA was notified of the claim around 17 August 2021 and agreed to 
settle it on 4 October 2021. In this time, there was a site visit from a surveyor, who prepared 
a report. There were negotiations over Mr G and Mrs Gs contractors quotes, which also 
involved discussions with one of AXAs senior building technicians and with                        
Mr G and Mrs Gs contractor. Because agreement couldnt be reached on the repair quotes, 
AXA says it also offered Mr G and Mrs G various other options  another site visit with a 
different surveyor to reassess the damage, the appointment of a restoration company to 
carry out drying out works or AXAs own contractors to complete the repairs. 
Negotiating the settlement of an insurance claim often takes time. There was a big difference 
in the quotes AXA and Mr G and Mrs G got for the repairs. So I think it was inevitable and 
unavoidable that the negotiation of the claim took a number of weeks. And this negotiation 
ultimately ended in Mr G and Mrs Gs favour. From the claim notes AXA has sent us, it accepts there were some slight delays in progressing Mr G and Mrs Gs claim. But AXA has 
acknowledged this failing in the compensation of £350 it has already paid them. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think AXA is responsible for any avoidable delays in progressing 
Mr Gs claim. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct AXA to pay Mr G any 
additional compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman