DRN-3809543
The complaint
Mr M says he suffered a financial loss of 57.1CHF after Skrill Limited converted a payment 
he made from his Skrill account to his bank account into euros - when both accounts are 
swiss franc accounts.
What happened
Mr M transferred 835.75CHF from his Skrill account to his swiss franc bank account. Skrill 
converted the payment into euros when it left his account and then back into swiss francs 
when it sent it to his bank. This meant he received 778.65CHF. There was also a flat fee of 
5.5 euros for the transfer but Skrill subsequently refunded this. 
Mr M says this double conversion is unfair and not set out in Skrills terms and conditions. 
He was not made aware of this when he opened his account. Skrill says it cannot detail 
every scenario in its terms or on its website, and Mr M was informed of the euro conversion 
prior to his transfer. Plus he could always have contacted it to ask for more information. 
Mr M wants Skrill to refund the 57.1 CHF as it failed to inform him of this important condition 
when he opened his account.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He felt it was unfair and misleading that Skrill did 
not make clear the withdrawal conditions for same currency payments, given it does for 
payments between different currency accounts. He felt however it had made clear that there 
would be a flat fee. He said Skrill must refund 57.1CHF to Mr M.
Skrill disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I find that Skrill failed to provide information to Mr M in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading, as it is obliged to. It acknowledges itself in its final response letter that We 
understand that by opening a Skrill account in CHF you might have expected that 
withdrawals to your CHF bank account will be processed in the same currency. 
The double conversion in and out of euros for payments in the same currency is key 
information with financial implications for an accountholder. And so it should have been 
made clearer to Mr M. Skrill has said that Mr M cannot have expected a free way to transfer 
his money out. But that is not his complaint, nor what he sought. Skrill chose to refund the 
flat fee it charged, but Mr M was not contesting the legitimacy of this fee.  Rather, he was 
saying it was unfair the terms did not explain the scenario he went on to experience. I can 
see, as Skrill has pointed out, that the euro conversion was detailed on the screen Mr M saw 
prior to confirming his withdrawal. But like the investigator I would expect this to also be 
detailed in the terms if Skrill is to fairly operate and rely on this condition  particularly given 
that it is most likely contrary to customers expectations as Skrill seems to accept.
It follows in the circumstances of this complaint I find it fair for Skrill to refund the 57.1CHF to 
Mr Ms account. As Mr M is now aware of the condition of such withdrawals, I would not 
expect him to proceed with similar transactions unless he is accepting of this condition.   
Putting things right
Skrill must refund 57.1CHF to Mr Ms account.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Skrill Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman