DRN-3605689
Complaint
Miss I is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) registered a fraud 
prevention marker against her.
Background
In February 2020, Miss Is savings account received a payment of £450.00 The funds were 
immediately transferred to Miss Is current account and then withdrawn in cash. NatWest 
subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for sending the payment to 
Miss Is current account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. 
NatWest reviewed Miss Is savings account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to 
close all of Miss Is accounts and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss I complained that this was applied 
unfairly. NatWest looked at Miss Is complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss I remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Is concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss I unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss I disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss I is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Is account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss I was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss I allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Is complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Is account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Is 
account in February 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss I was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss I says the fraudulent funds entered her account without her knowledge. She said she 
wasnt aware of the money coming in, wasnt expecting it and only realised that her account 
had suspicious activity and money that wasnt owned by her while she was at a concert. 
Miss I said she lost her phone that evening which had her online banking details on it during 
the concert. As she later found her phone and left the concert really late she waited until the 
next day to call NatWest but by that time it informed her that the decision to close her 
accounts had already been taken.
Ive thought about what Miss I has said. But Im afraid that Miss Is version of events simply 
isnt plausible. I say this because even if I were to accept that Miss Is phone did have her 
details stored in it and was lost in the way Miss I says it was (for the sake of completeness, 
Id add that Im not really persuaded this is the case), this doesnt account for how an 
opportunistic fraudster would have been able to withdraw the funds from Miss Is current 
account at a cash machine. 
It wouldnt have been possible for an opportunistic fraudster to have withdrawn the funds 
from Miss Is current account, in this way, simply by having her phone. So, in these 
circumstances, its difficult for me to see how a third party would have been able to receive 
the payments, make the transfers in question and then subsequently withdraw the funds 
from another account, without Miss Is cooperation. Furthermore, Im also concerned that 
Miss Is savings account hadnt been opened long at all and after other activity which Miss I 
and NatWest is aware of. This is typical of accounts which are opened for fraudulent 
purposes.
Im afraid that Miss Is version of events simply isnt supported by the other available 
evidence and information. And without anything else to corroborate what shes said this 
means that I cant reasonably conclude that Miss I was an unwitting participant here. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not she was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent 
funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Is account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss I was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for NatWest to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss Is complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss I. But even taking into account the impact 
Miss I says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available evidence  
appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope that Miss I will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss I might find that shes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a 
full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman