DRN-4250308
The complaint
Mrs B has said that she asked Santander UK Plc to reduce the credit limit on her joint 
flexible mortgage, but instead it allowed a further £40,000 to be drawn down.
What happened
Mrs B had a mortgage with Santander with her then-husband, who Ill refer to as Mr B. Mr B 
isnt a party to this complaint.
In 2006 they switched to a flexible mortgage product. The mortgage at that time was around 
£74,000 and was held on a repayment basis with just under 19 years remaining on the term. 
The new interest rate tracked at 0.49% above Bank of England base rate and came with a 
£599 product fee which was added to the mortgage debt, taking it to around £74,670. That 
amount was set as the credit limit on the account.
There were additional features which allowed underpayments, payment holidays and a 
borrow back facility if there was sufficient available credit.
In August 2008 Mrs B and Mr B increased the credit limit on the mortgage to £84,670.
Regular drawdowns were made over the life of the mortgage; over the 15 years from 2009 to 
2022 (inclusive) at least 5 drawdowns were made each year in 11 of those years.
On 2 August 2022 Mrs B called Santander. She said she was separating from Mr B and hed 
thrown her out of the house on 25 July and changed the locks. She said there had been a 
recent £28,000 drawdown, and she didnt think he was going to make the mortgage 
payments. Santander said there had been a £28,500 draw down on the mortgage on 
25 July1 and asked if that was made by Mr B. Mrs B replied that Mr B had got it, she said the 
funds had gone to the joint account and shed tried to get them, but Mr B had moved the 
money to his sole named account before she could. Mrs B was asking about the 
repossession process as she said she wanted the property sold, but she didnt have the 
money to take it to court herself to force a sale. 
A marital dispute marker was put on the account so no further drawdowns could be 
undertaken without both parties agreeing.
On 5 November 2022 Mrs B raised a complaint with Santander about the drawdowns as she 
thought checks should have been done.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, saying it was unaware there were any issues until 
Mrs B notified it on 2 August 2022 and, since then, no further drawdowns had been 
undertaken.
1 The transaction records show the £28,500 drawdown request was made by Mrs B online on 24 July.
The complaint was referred to our service and was looked at by one of our Investigators. 
She said there was no record of Mrs B notifying Santander of any issues  or requesting the 
credit limit be reduced  before 2 August 2022. And because all the drawdowns were 
undertaken before then she didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. She said 
Santanders policy allowed for the drawdowns to be made by just one party, and it didnt 
have to carry out more checks each time to ensure the drawdowns were affordable.
Mrs B didnt agree and so the case was passed to me to decide. I understand the property 
was sold in April 2023 and the mortgage was repaid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mrs B is in. Its clear shes gone through some 
very difficult times, and it cant have been easy to mentally revisit those times when bringing 
this complaint. Ive not gone into any detail about that in this decision to protect Mrs Bs 
privacy once the decision is published. But Id seek to reassure her that Ive read and taken 
into account everything shes said.
I can see from what weve been told that Mrs B has been very distressed about whats 
happened. Mr B hasnt participated in this complaint (and given the nature of the complaint, 
this is understandable). This means that I dont know what he might have to say about the 
matter, so its not appropriate for me to comment on where all the withdrawals were spent or 
who did, or did not, benefit from the money. 
If the way the money was used is in dispute, thats something Mrs B and Mr B will need to 
resolve between themselves, perhaps as part of their divorce settlement using Form E (the 
Financial Statement for a financial order under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973). But its 
not something I can get involved with. My role is to look at what Santander has done.
Our Investigator asked Mrs B I just want to clarify with you whether you made any 
drawdowns on the account throughout the full duration of the mortgage? If you did make any 
drawdowns, please can you let me know when you made these transactions. To which 
Mrs B replied No I wasnt responsible for any of the drawdowns on the mortgage 
After further questions, Mrs B confirmed she had made all the drawdown requests, but said it 
was under duress.
As it seems to no longer be in dispute that Mrs B made all the drawdown requests, I dont 
need to make a finding on that point.
Mrs B said that she phoned Santander around March 2021 or June 2021 to request the 
credit limit be reduced and was told that couldnt be done. Santander has searched its phone 
call records for Mrs Bs number (which she says she is sure she used) for all of 2021 and 
hasnt been able to find a call. When asked by our Investigator, Mrs B didnt provide any 
alternative numbers for Santander to search under. Having reviewed the contact notes, I 
cant see any contact was recorded from Mrs B at all in 2021, other than one online 
drawdown request in the November.Mrs B has said that Santander should have carried out checks during the term to ensure the 
credit limit remained affordable. Shes pointed to the mortgage offer which says:
The terms of your credit limit are detailed in your Flexible Mortgage Terms and Conditions. 
We want to make sure your mortgage product remains appropriate to your financial 
circumstances and to enable us to do this we monitor your account on an ongoing basis. 
We therefore want to remind you that under your product terms and conditions we may 
reduce your credit limit if we reasonably think that because of a change in your financial 
position, you could not afford to repay present or future drawdowns and this could include 
repeated use of the credit facility to make your monthly payments to us. Our right to review 
your credit position, including checking information held about you at credit reference 
agencies, applies throughout the duration of your mortgage term and for joint mortgages 
applies to all account holders.
But theres nothing in there that says Santander would do anything other than monitor the 
mortgage account for things like arrears or to see if the monthly payments were repeatedly 
being made by using drawdowns, and that it would check information held at the credit 
reference agencies.
Those actions wouldnt have flagged up any concerns here as Mrs B and Mr B were 
maintaining their monthly payments, werent obviously repeatedly using drawdowns to make 
their monthly payments and, as far as Im aware, they didnt have any CCJs that would have 
shown up on their credit files.
Instead, Mrs B is saying the problem was that Mr B was compulsively spending the money 
and that he was making her request the drawdowns. But the only way Santander would have 
known any of that was if Mrs B told them, which shes accepted she didnt do until 2 August 
2022. And when she did tell Santander it immediately put a block on the account to prevent 
any further drawdowns.
The mortgage product Mrs B and Mr B had was designed to be flexible, and as part of that 
drawdowns could be made up to a set credit limit without needing an affordability 
assessment to be carried out (other than when the credit limit was originally agreed). That 
forms part of the terms and conditions of the mortgage that Mrs B and Mr B signed up to.
In May 2022 Mrs B phoned Santander. She said they had additional funds they could 
drawdown but only had three years left to run on the mortgage. She asked if they could 
extend the mortgage term by five years. As part of that call she said she wanted to 
drawdown an additional £10,000 saying Ive got to get my porch and bathroom done and 
some windows. Santander said that term extensions couldnt be granted on the type of 
mortgage that Mrs B held. 
Later that day a £5,000 drawdown request was made by Mrs B online, and the funds were 
sent to her joint account the following day.
Mrs B has said when I asked for the term extension it wasnt for any home improvements 
[Mr B] needed a new work van and the £5,000 was to pay the mortgage and bills. But 
Santander couldnt have known that because Mrs B clearly said on the phone that she 
wanted to do some home improvements.
When Mrs B was asked by our Investigator about the drawdowns, Mrs B said I requested 
the remainder of the equity available £28.000 so he couldnt spend another penny it went 
into our joint account and then he got to it first and transferred it his account and bought his 
van etc So theres no allegation there that the largest drawdown was made under duress, instead 
Mrs B has said she chose to draw the money down herself so she could take it before Mr B 
did. Again, thats not something I can hold Santander liable for as it did nothing wrong in 
releasing those funds at Mrs Bs request.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs Bs position. I understand her point that when you are 
living this way it isnt something youre in a position to talk about openly. But I can only 
uphold a complaint where a business has done something wrong, and there was simply 
nothing before 2 August 2022 that should have alerted Santander to the situation as Mrs B 
explains it now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman