DRN-3468864
The complaint
Mrs C, represented by Mr C, says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, incorrectly 
calculated her interest when her 5-year fixed term savings account matured. 
What happened
Mrs C opened an account paying 2.3% gross interest on 26 August 2016. She opted to have 
interest paid on maturity, which was on 26 August 2021. She received an interest payment 
of £6,903.78 but says it should be £7,224.71. She says there is a shortfall as the bank has 
paid her annual interest x 5, rather than capitalising/compounding the interest back into the 
account each year. She wants Virgin Money to pay the difference, plus £250 compensation 
as it has been deceitful and caused inconvenience. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He said Mrs C opted to have interest paid 
on maturity, but it was calculated daily. And irrespective of the interest payment date an 
applicant chose, on this product interest was always calculated on a daily basis. The Term 
Deposit Certificate made this clear. So he concluded there was no bank error.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs C asked for an ombudsmans review. She said Virgin 
Money had not paid the interest on a capitalised/compounded basis. It has calculated the 
interest for year one and multiplied that by five: daily capitalised interest had not been added 
to her account on maturity and so the investigators conclusion was incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed Mrs Cs application form which shows that she selected for interest to be 
paid on maturity. Section 3.1.6 of the terms and conditions explained this meant Interest will 
be credited to the Account (unless you advise us differently) on the Maturity Date or when 
the Account is closed, if earlier. Interest will start accruing on the Deposit from the 
Commencement Date and will be calculated on a daily basis up to and including the last 
Business Day before the Maturity Date on the full credit balance which has been Cleared for 
Us on the Account.
There were also options for monthly or annually capitalised interest to be credited to the 
account. The Term Deposit Certificate set out that interest is calculated daily and will be 
credited as the terms set out (so in this instance that would be as above based on Mrs Cs 
choice). 
Mrs C is unhappy with Virgin Money for not capitalising/compounding the interest back into 
the account each year. But the evidence shows that is not the option she had chosen. And 
based on her choice I have found nothing in the product literature or the terms and 
conditions of the account that I think could have led Mrs C to understand that interest would 
be compounded in the way she describes. Rather the documentation explains that Mrs C will 
receive interest at the advertised rate and payable on the principle at the time of maturity. As 
it seems this is what Virgin Money has done it follows I have found no error on the part of the 
bank and cant conclude it has acted unfairly.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman