DRN-2749398
The complaint
Mr M complained that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow acted irresponsibly when it gave 
him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr M took out two cash4unow loans as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max. 
Monthly 
Repayment
125/03/2018 28/03/2018 3 £150.00 £66.70
224/04/2018 Outstanding 6 £1,000.00 £300.63
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and cash4unow told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
cash4unow  to ask Mr M for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think cash4unow had any information which shouldve prompted it to 
check what Mr M had said in his loan applications.
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr M had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from cash4unow shouldve alerted 
cash4unow to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr M mainly said that cash4unow had failed to carry out proper checks before 
lending to him. Had it done so, Mr M said cash4unow wouldve seen that he had many other 
loans at the same time, and many with missed payments. He felt that cash4unow should 
have picked this up and not given him loans he told us he wasnt in a position to pay back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cash4unow provided Mr M with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Cash4unow was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Heres why I say this. 
Cash4unow agreed to Mr Ms applications after carrying out affordability checks and it relied 
on information Mr M provided about his monthly income and expenditure and the results of 
credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr M and cash4unow  have said, I've looked at each loan in 
turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan Mr M didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve 
alerted cash4unow to any underlying money problems and I think cash4unow was entitled to 
rely on information Mr M provided. From what I can see, Mr M declared an income of £4,675 
 and after paying his declared outgoings (which included an amount of £485 that Mr M said 
he was spending on other credit) it still looked as though Mr M should have had ample 
disposable income left over comfortably to cover the cost of the repayments on this loan. 
Ive seen a summary of cash4unow s credit checks for this loan. It noted that Mr M had a 
default recorded on his credit record during the previous 12 months and 1 other active short 
term loan outstanding with a balance of £230. But it isnt unusual for borrowers of this type of 
lending to have other credit on the go and perhaps an impaired credit record. It looks to me 
like cash4unows credit checks didnt show anything adverse that shouldve prompted it 
either to ask Mr M more searching questions about his financial situation or check the 
information hed provided. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr M applied for a much more substantial loan this time. But hed 
repaid loan 1 very quickly (within just few days of taking it out). So I cant fairly say that, at 
that stage, Mr M had shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay for loan 1. 
The figures hed declared and the information cash4unow had collected appear to support 
cash4unow s lending decision. Although the monthly repayments on this loan were 
significantly more than hed paid for loan 1, Mr M had said his take home pay had increased 
whilst his declared outgoings had decreased and he had a new address which meant his housing costs were now £200 less per month. So it seems to me these changes more than 
amply covered the extra cost of borrowing loan 2.
Cash4unow took into account his spending on other credit  £480 according to Mr M. Its 
checks showed Mr Ms credit position hadnt materially changed since hed taken out loan 1. 
So I think the information cash4unow had gathered suggested Mr M had ample disposable 
income to be able to pay the monthly repayments for loan 2. 
Despite what Mr  M has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that cash4unow had recorded for Mr M, or anything else that it 
shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made cash4unow think this loan wasnt affordable 
for Mr M when he took it out. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about loan 2.
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about whether cash4unow shouldve asked 
more searching questions or done more to verify Mr Ms financial situation given that his 
apparent need for expensive credit appeared to be at odds with what hed told cash4unow 
about his finances. But there could have been any number of reasons why Mr M mightve 
needed quick access to extra funds  despite his substantial salary. 
And I think that cash4unow gave Mr M fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their relationship, to rely on the 
information he provided. The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve 
prompted cash4unow to probe more deeply into Mr Ms reasons for borrowing or take steps 
to verify what he was saying. 
Cash4unows lending decisions dont seem irresponsible or unreasonable to me looking at 
the information cash4unow relied on.
And I think what I've said about its approach to lending is borne out by the fact that 
cash4unow did press Mr M for more information when he enquired about borrowing more 
money to top up loan 2  and cash4unow declined that application. 
Im very sorry that Mr M found repaying these loans difficult. 
And I accept that in reality Mr Ms financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in 
the information he provided or the other information cash4unow obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that cash4unow did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Mr M. 
Im aware that cash4unow initially made a goodwill offer to reduce the extent of Mr Ms 
outstanding debt  and that offer was subsequently withdrawn when Mr M felt it wasnt 
enough to resolve his complaint. I cant fairly require cash4unow to renew that offer as Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint. But I take this opportunity to remind cash4unow of its 
obligation to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay.
I appreciate that this outcome is going to disappoint Mr M but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman