DRN-2178307
The complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in July 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr J was given 4 loans by Mr Lender between July 2015 and August 2016. All the loans
were short-term instalment loans, to be repaid over 6 months. The amount borrowed varied
from £350 to £600. Mr Lender has told us that Mr J was unable to repay loan 4 so the debt
was eventually sold to a third party and it since been repaid.
A summary of Mr J's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 14/07/2015 01/12/2015 6 £500.00
2 15/01/2016 21/03/2016 6 £500.00
3 04/04/2016 01/08/2016 6 £600.00
4 02/08/2016 debt sold 6 £350.00
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that Mr 
Lender needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I explained that Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didn't lend irresponsibly. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I 
said that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Id seen a summary of the information that Mr Lender gathered before it agreed to the first 
three loans and I didnt think it showed anything that should have caused additional 
concerns for Mr Lender in the initial stages of the lending relationship. I explained that from 
what Id seen, I thought the checks Mr Lender carried out before it agreed loans 1 to 3 were 
likely to have been reasonable and proportionate.
Mr J thought that Mr Lender should have carried out better checks before agreeing to any of 
his loans. He says he had severe financial difficulties at the time, and that if Mr Lender had 
carried out better checks, such as asking to see his bank statements, it would have 
discovered his financial problems and it would have concluded that the loans were 
unaffordable for him.
But I thought it was reasonable for Mr Lender to make its early lending decisions based on 
the information Mr J had provided and what it found in its checks. Given what Mr J had told 
the lender about his circumstances, and the amounts he needed to repay in relation to the
disposable income hed declared, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate, (in the early
stages of the lending relationship), for it to ask Mr J for the amount of information that would
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first three loans. I
didnt think greater checks were appropriate at the time. And I didnt think Mr Js lending had
reached the point where I think Mr Lender ought to have been independently verifying the
information he was providing about his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his
bank statements. So Mr Lender would not have been aware if Mr J might have difficulty
repaying his loans in a sustainable manner.
I appreciate that Mr J says his financial situation was much worse. But he doesnt appear to
have shared the extent of his financial problems with Mr Lender at that time. And I didnt 
think it was something that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have 
uncovered.  I said I was sorry that Mr J is struggling with financial problems, but I couldnt 
fairly conclude that Mr Lender was wrong to provide the first three loans to him. So I didnt 
intend to uphold his complaint about the first three loans.
However, when Mr J applied for his fourth loan, I thought Mr Lender should reasonably have
been alerted that there were indications that Mr J might be having some difficulties
managing his finances. And that it was reasonable to carry out more thorough checks before
agreeing to lend any further. I said this because:
Mr J repaid loan 3 early, yet he had a continuing need for a further loan and he 
immediately borrowed again, for the fourth time; and
Mr J declared that he was now paying £400 a month towards other short-term loans. 
Mr Lender says it took this into account in its decision to lend. But I thought the 
lender would reasonably have been aware from Mr Js three previous loan 
applications that his expenditure every month on other loans was steadily increasing 
 from £175 in his first loan application to £400 when he applied for his fourth loan. 
So either Mr J was borrowing considerably more, or he was borrowing from an 
increased number of other lenders. Either way, I thought it would have been 
reasonable for Mr Lender to check the situation; and
By the time he applied for his fourth loan, Mr Js disposable income (available to 
meet unexpected one-off expenses or ad hoc costs), after repaying his regular 
commitments and his loan 4 repayments to Mr Lender, had reduced to about £114 
per month. Mr Lender would reasonably have been aware that this was considerably 
less than hed had available when he took the first three loans. And it had to be 
maintained over an extended six-month period at a time when Mr Js expenditure on 
other short-term loans appeared to be increasing.Taking things as a whole, I thought Mr Lender should reasonably have been concerned that
this consumers financial situation overall was potentially deteriorating; that he might be
having difficulties managing his finances and so a decision to lend again should reasonably
warrant further checks. I appreciate that Mr J applied to borrow less when he took loan 4.
And that Mr Lender asked Mr J some further questions at the time. But I didnt think Mr
Lender could reasonably have relied on this as being a proportionate check in the
circumstances. 
Overall, I thought Mr Lender should reasonably have taken steps at that point to further
investigate and independently verify at least some of the information that Mr J was providing
about his financial position - to satisfy itself that he could repay his fourth loan sustainably,
over the six-month period. 
Mr J provided us with copies of his bank statements so I thought I could determine what Mr 
Lender might have discovered, if it had carried out more thorough checks at the time. Mr J 
was repeatedly borrowing from a number of other short-term lenders and his account shows
other signs of financial distress, including regular betting transactions. I thought its likely that
with better checks Mr Lender would have discovered the extent of Mr Js financial problems.
I thought it would reasonably have concluded that he was having serious difficulties 
managing his money and that he was most likely borrowing to repay other lending  and 
would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan from Mr Lender. I think it 
should reasonably have realised that Mr J was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his 
fourth loan and concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
I invited both parties to send me any further evidence or comments.
Mr J has told us that he missed a payment for his first loan as he didnt have enough funds 
in his account. And that Mr Lender sent him an email chasing this up. Mr J says he only 
managed to make this payment by borrowing from another payday lender. He thinks Mr 
Lender should have realised that he was struggling to repay his first loan and so it should 
have carried out more in-depth checks when he applied for a second loan, to ensure he 
could repay it sustainably. And if Mr Lender had carried out better checks,  it would have 
discovered that hed taken out a considerable amount of other lending and so it would have 
identified his lack of credit worthiness.
Mr Lender doesnt agree with my provisional decision. It says that whilst it was aware that Mr 
J was paying an increasing amount towards other lending, his fourth and final loan with Mr 
Lender was for a lower amount and that this showed he wasnt using the loan to fill the gap 
in his finances. Mr Lender also says that Mr Js disposable income had decreased between 
the third and fourth loans, but this was mainly due to his other regular monthly outgoings and 
that only £100 was due to repayments towards other loans. It has also told us that Mr J 
initially applied for £1,000 but due to the increase in his expenditure, he was only allowed to 
borrow £350. Mr Lender says that it thinks it was reasonable to rely on the information that 
Mr J presented at the time and that it would have been disproportionate to carry out a full 
financial review before agreeing to the fourth loan. 
I would like to thank Mr J and Mr Lender for their further comments which I have taken into 
account when coming to my final decision - along with all the other evidence and arguments 
presented in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr J has said about missing a payment on his first loan. But I 
dont think a missed payment so early on in the lending relationship ought reasonably to 
have triggered more in-depth checks from Mr Lender, or led it to seek independent 
verification such as requesting Mr Js bank statements, before the second loan was agreed. I 
appreciate what Mr J has told us but I dont think the missed payment was sufficient to 
reasonably have alerted Mr Lender that he was having serious financial problems, such that 
more thorough checks were required or that it ought reasonably to decline any further 
lending.  
Ive also thought about what Mr Lender has said in response to my provisional decision. 
I dont think the fact that Mr J borrowed a lower amount with loan 4 meant he wasnt 
borrowing to fill a gap in his finances. And Mr Lender has explained that he actually applied 
for £1,000 but was only allowed to borrow £350. So I think it was aware that Mr J had a 
continuing and apparently increasing need to take expensive lending. 
I set out the reasons in my provisional decision why I think Mr Lender ought reasonably to 
have carried out more thorough checks when Mr J applied for his fourth loan. Mr J seems to 
have been aware that Mr Js financial situation overall was potentially deteriorating; that he 
might be having difficulties managing his finances and so I think a decision to lend for the 
fourth time in about a year should reasonably have warranted further checks. As I explained, 
I think its likely that with better checks Mr Lender would have discovered the extent of Mr Js 
financial problems. Mr Lender ought reasonably to have realised that Mr J was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay his fourth loan and concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to 
him.
Ive thought carefully about all of Mr Js and Mr Lenders comments, but they have not 
changed my view of this complaint. 
So I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and I partly uphold the 
complaint:
 I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about loans 1 to 3 but I dont think Mr Lender should have 
agreed to provide loan 4. So Mr Lender needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr Lender has told us it sold the outstanding debt payable in respect of loan 4. So it should
buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so, and then take the following steps. If Mr
Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to
achieve the results outlined below.
Mr Lender should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 4, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan. If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then Mr 
Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated above should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr J. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with him - bearing in mind the need to treat Mr J positively and sympathetically 
in those discussions.
Mr Lender should remove any adverse information about loan 4 from Mr Js credit 
file. As Mr Lender has sold the outstanding loan 4 it should ask the debt purchaser to 
do the same. Mr Lender does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Mr Js 
credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest and provide Mr J with a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he requests one. If Mr Lender intends to
use the refund to reduce the amount Mr J owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman