DRN-3926609
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. Hes unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC handled his application for a 
loan under the Recovery Loan Scheme.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr M applied to borrow £25,000 from Lloyds under the government-backed 
Recovery Loan Scheme.
Over the months that followed, Mr M contacted Lloyds on a number of occasions to chase 
up progress. With the application still pending, he raised a complaint about the delay in 
December 2021. 
Lloyds apologised for the delay and any inconvenience this was causing, and paid Mr M 
£100 by way of compensation. The bank said it couldnt see what had caused the hold-up, 
beyond human error, noting that Mr M had submitted the financial information it had asked 
him for. 
The application was subsequently reviewed and, ultimately, declined in February 2022. In its 
email of 3 February to Mr M, Lloyds said its decision was based on uncertainty as to whether 
the repayments would be affordable for him.
Mr M doesnt think Lloyds handled his application fairly. He says, in summary, that:
The banks decision to decline his application was unfair, as it was based purely on 
the profitability of the business and overlooked the challenging economic 
circumstances of the time  for which he needed the financial support of the loan.
He had been assured by a relationship manager at the bank that he was eligible for 
the loan and that all was in order with his application, only for the request to be 
declined on affordability grounds.
The relationship manager lost the information that Mr M submitted, causing further 
delay to the process and requiring Mr M to send things in a second time. 
It took too long for Lloyds to reach its decision. And the bank put him to unnecessary 
trouble  and expense  in having to instruct accountants to prepare the information 
it asked for, if it was always going to decline the application on affordability grounds.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. 
He didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in declining the loan application, or in asking 
Mr M to provide certain information in order to reach that decision. And he couldnt see that 
the bank had given Mr M any firm assurance that the loan would be approved along the way. 
But he thought it had taken too long for the bank to reach its decision, with the delay causing 
Mr M some avoidable distress and inconvenience in having to chase things up over a period 
of several months. So he recommended that Lloyds pay a further £300 compensation.
Lloyds accepted our investigators view but Mr M didnt. He didnt think the compensation 
award fairly reflected the impact that the matter had on him and his business, and 
highlighted the costs hed incurred in obtaining information from his accountant along with a 
copy of his credit file. And he didnt think that the full extent of his interactions with Lloyds 
during the process had been taken into account, believing that Lloyds had made a number of 
false promises and left him feeling like a laughing stock. So he asked that an ombudsman 
review the matter, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Recovery Loan Scheme, lenders were entitled  and expected  to 
assess the viability of the lending proposition. Applications were still subject to affordability 
and creditworthiness assessments in a similar way to conventional loans, with lenders 
retaining the discretion to consider requests in line with their usual underwriting policies.
Lloyds has explained and evidenced that it declined Mr Ms application on the basis of 
affordability concerns. Ive looked at the basis of its decision and I think it was reasonable, 
based on the information Mr M provided about his businesss income and expenditure and 
his existing level of indebtedness.
I appreciate why Mr M is unhappy at being declined access to the government-backed 
financial support that he was seeking in order to help his business during the difficult times 
brought about by the pandemic. I can see why hed want the bank to focus more on the 
potential earning and profitability of the business if supported by the loan, rather than base 
its assessment on past performance. But I can see that the bank did review and consider the 
projections that Mr M provided. And ultimately, Lloyds had a level of discretion as to how it 
would assess applications, and I dont think the way in which it factored in the past 
performance of Mr Ms business and his existing level of indebtedness was unfair  or in 
contravention of the aims or rules of the loan scheme  even in consideration of the 
unprecedented circumstances of the time. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in declining Mr Ms 
loan application.
Mr M has said that the relationship manager he dealt with declined to provide a reason for 
the banks decision when asked. Ive not listened to a recording of the conversation in 
question, but I dont think I need to. Even accepting what Mr M says, Lloyds informed Mr M 
of the reason when providing its decision to him by email, being affordability concerns  
which was as much detail as I think the bank needed to offer. While its regrettable if this 
wasnt explained to Mr M when he asked in a separate conversation, I think he was given 
sufficient information through other channels to understand the basis of the banks decision. 
Mr M has also queried why Lloyds took so long  and put him to the trouble of submitting 
various documents in support of his application  if it was always going to decline his 
request. While the application evidently took too long (which Ill come on to below), I dont 
think the outcome of the application was a foregone conclusion. In order to fairly assess 
Mr Ms application, Lloyds required some more detailed information about his business  
none of which appears to be out of the ordinary for such a loan application, being the 
businesss accounts, Mr Ms credit file and projections for the year ahead. 
Ive carefully considered whether Lloyds couldve reached its decision on affordability 
grounds without requiring Mr M to submit this additional information. And perhaps it couldve done. But at the same time, I think its fair to suggest that Mr M wouldve wanted the bank to 
consider all angles before reaching a decision. And asking for this information enabled 
Lloyds to fully review the position  including by reference to Mr Ms projected future 
performance  and give the application the best possible chance of approval. 
Ive not seen that Lloyds guaranteed the application would be approved, and by its nature it 
wouldve been self-evident that it was subject to the banks assessment and satisfaction. 
Mr M has described being told that he was eligible, which may have been the case  but 
being eligible doesnt automatically mean that the loan would be approved. The same is true 
of the application looking good as Mr M has recalled, which could be as much about the 
state of its completeness rather than its prospects of approval.
So I think it was up to Mr M to decide whether he was happy to take the time and trouble  
and incur any applicable costs  in obtaining the information Lloyds requested, in the 
knowledge that the application may not be approved. At the same time, I would note that 
weve asked Mr M to evidence any additional costs he incurred in providing this information 
for Lloyds and he has declined to provide this.
Where Lloyds did make errors, however, was in the progression of the application. Mr M 
submitted the request on or around 9 July 2021, but only received the banks decision on 
3 February 2022. While some applications may legitimately take this long, that cant be said 
of Mr Ms request. There were evidently periods of inactivity by the bank, which noted in its 
response to Mr Ms complaint that there were no apparent reasons for things to take as long 
as they did beyond human error. It was only when Mr M first raised his complaint in 
December 2021 that the bank made any meaningful progress with the application.
While the application was pending and with no meaningful update from Lloyds, Mr M 
understandably chased the bank up on a number of occasions  calling to enquire as to 
progress, having to submit some documentation more than once and ultimately raising a 
complaint in a bid to move things forward. This put Mr M to some avoidable inconvenience, 
and made the process more stressful than it needed to be  while attending to the running of 
his business during what was an already difficult time for him personally and professionally. 
Its right that hes compensated for this. To that end, I also think that the payment of an 
additional £300  on top of the £100 that Lloyds has already paid  is a fair way to 
compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
I appreciate that Mr M thinks the compensation should be higher. And Ive thought carefully 
about this in light of his comments, particularly about how he says Lloyds actions left him 
feeling. I can see how the delays and apparent lack of care wouldve been disappointing and 
disheartening. But Ive not found that the bank said or did anything to belittle or disparage 
him in the manner hes described. And Ive not seen that the shortcomings in how Lloyds 
handled the application caused Mr M any financial losses, or affected his reputation. So 
while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as I know this isnt the answer he was hoping for, I think 
the additional £300 that Lloyds has now agreed to pay him is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC 
to pay Mr M £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 Ben Jennings
Ombudsman