DRN-1719844
The complaint
Mr and Ms S complain that Internet Insurance Services UK Ltd (IIS) sold them an 
unsuitable buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2010 Ms S contacted IIS, an insurance broker, to purchase an insurance policy 
which would cover her home while it was unoccupied during renovation. An extension was 
being built, and Ms S required cover for the buildings whilst work was taking place and the 
property was unoccupied. IIS provided a quote to Ms S, which she proceeded with.
 
Some years later, in 2019, Ms S discovered a problem with the roof of the extension. She 
said it had been caused by poor workmanship on the part of the builders who carried out the 
renovation work. Ms S says she contacted ISS to enquire about making a claim on the 
policy. But IIS said the claim wouldnt be covered. It explained the policy only provided cover 
for fire; lightning, explosion and aircraft, not for the workmanship of the builder undertaking 
the renovation. Moreover, the policy had lapsed in 2011.
In May 2019 Ms S complained. She said the policy had been mis-sold because it wasnt 
suitable. Additionally, because the policy was known as a Residential Let Policy, 
Ms S said it was nothing to do with their circumstances at the time and implied they were 
letting the property, which they werent.
 
IIS wrote to Ms S in July 2019. It said its advisors had been clear about what the policy 
provided cover for. IIS also said it had provided Ms S with a statement of fact, policy wording 
and an insurance schedule. It said this documentation was clear and not misleading.
 
Ms S remained unhappy so she brought the complaint to our service. An investigator looked 
at what had happened, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said hed 
listened to the calls between Ms S and IIS. He was satisfied IIS explained what would be 
covered, and that the level of cover was outlined in the policy documents. He also thought 
the policy was suitable. He said this because hed read the policy terms, and the policy did 
provide cover for an unoccupied property.
Ms S disagreed. She still thought the policy wasnt suitable, and that its name implied the 
property had been let, which wasnt the case. Ms S thought this could cause issues with her 
mortgage provider.
 
The investigator reconsidered, but he didnt change his mind. He was still satisfied the policy 
provided the cover Ms S had asked for, and that the level of cover was clearly explained. He 
also said he had thought about the name of the policy, but he didnt think the name in itself 
made a difference, because the policy provided the cover needed and there was no 
evidence the property would be let out.
Ms S asked for an ombudsmans decision. She remained of the opinion that the policy had 
been mis-sold, and that a policy that covers a residential let is not the same as a policy that 
covers a residential property. Additionally, Ms S said she felt IIS had discriminated against 
her. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Ms Ss complaint arose after Ms S contacted IIS in April 2019 to see if she could 
make a claim following a problem with the roof. When she was told she couldnt, Ms S 
checked the policy documents and found the policy covered residential let properties. This 
forms the crux of the complaint; that the policy was mis-sold because it wasnt right for her 
circumstances and she wasnt letting the home.
  
It seems IIS sold the policy as part of an advised sale. This means it recommended the 
policy to meet its customers needs. IIS wouldve had to ensure the proposed contract of 
insurance was consistent with Mr and Ms Ss needs, and that it had taken reasonable care 
to ensure the suitability of its advice.
 
So I need to consider whether IIS fulfilled these responsibilities, and treated Mr and Ms S 
fairly, when it sold the policy.
 
Ms S gave much of the detail about her insurance needs online before she called IIS. Ive 
been provided with two call recordings which let me hear that Ms Ss needs, and the policy 
itself, were also discussed extensively on the phone. Ms Ss requirement was buildings 
cover while her property was unoccupied and undergoing structural work. Speaking to IIS on 
the phone, Ms S provided two estimates for the cost of a full rebuild should anything happen. 
She also explained that she would be living in the property once building work was complete. 
Based on this information IIS sourced a policy that provided reduced cover for unoccupied 
properties as part of a Residential Let Property Scheme. In the first call, the advisor explains:
This insurer will cover you whilst the propertys unoccupied All this policy will cover whilst 
works are getting done is fire, lightning, earthquake, explosion and property owners liability. 
Thats it Wont cover theft, malicious damage, escape of water or storm damage
I think thats clear enough for Ms S to understand the level of cover the policy provided.
In the second call Ms S asked several questions. She asked whether the policy was the right 
one given its name indicated it was applicable to residential lets. IISs advisor explained the 
insurer:
have a let policy that they deal with unoccupied properties on as well. So thats what we 
go through 
The policy name is an important point for Ms S. Shes said the policy wasnt suitable for her 
needs because it covered residential let properties. So Ive thought carefully about whether 
Ms S was misled. I asked Ms S to provide some additional information, particularly about 
what shes said regarding discrimination against her. The extra detail shes provided has 
been very helpful, and it has allowed me to gain a better understanding of her complaint. So 
Id like to pass on my sincere thanks to Ms S for taking the time to explain things further.
In summary, Ms S has said she was told residential is the same as residential let. And this 
implied she was unable to understand the wording. Having thought about what shes said, I 
can understand why the name of the policy might be confusing. On balance, perhaps further explanation from IIS early in the sales process wouldve helped to clear things up. So its 
unfortunate that didnt happen. 
Having said that, Ive not seen any requirement that the property had to be (or planned to 
be) let for a claim to be made. And thats key here, because while I appreciate the policy 
name may not sound like it fitted with Ms Ss plans, its the substance of what it covered 
thats important. Ms S asked for a policy that would provide buildings cover while her home 
was unoccupied, and the policy IIS sourced did offer that cover. So while I can see why the 
policy name may have caused confusion, or given Ms S an impression that IIS thought she 
wouldnt understand the policy, I dont think that was intentionally so.
 
Ms S has said the name of the policy implies the property was let, and this might cause 
issues with her mortgage lender. But the policy was sold over ten years ago, and Ive not 
been provided with any evidence to show theres been any detriment as a result of the 
policys name during that time. So, on balance, I dont think its very likely to cause problems 
in the future. And even if it did, as Ive said, the policy met Mr and Ms Ss needs and they 
were aware of its name when the policy was taken out, so thats not something IIS could 
fairly be held responsible for.
Given the policy covered Ms S for what she asked for, Im satisfied that IIS used the 
information it was provided with at the time and took reasonable care to ensure the suitability 
of its advice and recommendation. So having taken everything Ive seen and heard into 
account, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold. 
Moreover, I think the advisor provided adequate information for Ms S to understand the level 
of cover it provided. Ive also noted the advisor did offer to source cover through another 
insurer if Ms S wasnt happy, but made it clear this would be more expensive. So I think 
Ms S was given clear and accurate information about what the policy covered to decide if 
she wanted to buy it. 
 
Ms S has said her doubts over the suitability of the policy were caused recently, when she 
looked at her policy documents. But Ive seen the policy documents were sent to Ms S after 
her calls with IIS in 2010. These documents provided the key information necessary to make 
an informed decision about whether the recommended policy was indeed suitable. I wouldnt 
expect IIS to provide a variety of policies if it could find one that met the needs its customer 
had outlined and, given what Ms S asked for, Im satisfied it did that in this instance. 
In hindsight Ms S might have liked a policy to cover faults arising from the builders 
workmanship, but if that was the case, I dont think it was made clear to IIS at the time. 
There were extensive discussions around the level of cover the policy provided, and as Ive 
said above, Im satisfied IIS made it clear what would be covered.
 
I certainly appreciate Ms Ss strength of feeling in the matter. But given what Ive outlined 
above, while clearer discussion upfront about the policy name wouldve no doubt been 
helpful, I dont think IIS sold something unsuitable. So while I know my findings will come as 
a disappointment to Mr and Ms S, Im satisfied IIS fulfilled its responsibilities when it sold the 
policy, and I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionMr final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman