DRN-1511963
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been recording incorrect information 
against his credit history for both his mortgage, and his mortgage current account. 
What happened
Mr N took his mortgage out with Barclays (previously Woolwich) in February 2005. The 
opening balance was £155,318.90, repayable initially at £895.45 a month. Alongside the 
mortgage, Mr N also had a mortgage current account which had an additional borrowing 
facility of £16,330. 
Although the mortgage repayment was £895.45 a month, as Mr Ns mortgage started part 
way through a month, there was a residual payment due of £261.65. This wasnt paid by Mr 
N. And during the first three years of the mortgage, Mr N regularly missed repayments and 
made them up at later dates, usually within the next month or two.  In around 
February/March 2009 Mr N suffered a house fire. Following this, Mr N lost his job and he 
needed to take care of his children. This all impacted his ability to make repayments as and 
when due.
Mr N has made various payment arrangements with Barclays, which included accepting 
lower than the contractual repayment due, sometimes only accepting interest repayments 
and for a period of time, interest was paid by the Department of Work and Pensions. This 
meant arrears accrued on the mortgage account. 
Mr N has, in more recent years, come to arrangements where he is both paying the 
contractual amount due and additional amounts to start repaying the arrears on the account. 
However, Mr N has continued to miss, and on occasion, make payments for less than the 
amount due or agreed. 
With regard to the mortgage current account Mr N made regular payments into and out of it. 
However, in September 2008 a payment was made into the account and from then no 
further payments were made to it for a number of years, despite it having a debit balance. 
Interest continued to accrue on the account, which meant the account went over the agreed 
borrowing limit in December 2010.  And the account remained over that limit until earlier this 
year. 
In 2019, Mr N attempted to arrange finance for a vehicle needed for work. But this was 
declined because of information held on his credit file. He obtained a copy of this and noted 
that Barclays had recorded his mortgage current account had a status of 6  six payments 
late  for the past six years. And his mortgage account was also showing payments were 
late, variously between one and six payments late. 
Mr N complained as he had been making regular payments to both accounts and so he 
hadnt missed any payments. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint as it was satisfied the 
information recorded was an accurate reflection of how Mr N had managed the accounts.
 
Our investigator agreed the information recorded was an accurate reflection of the account. 
She was satisfied that the mortgage current account, as running credit, had correctly 
recorded a status of 6 as the account had been over the limit for a number of years, with 
the status number reflecting the number of months the account was over the limit for, i.e. 
one month over the limit will show as a status 1 and so on. 
She was also satisfied the mortgage account information was correct as although Mr N had 
been making payments, he was still in arrears, and it was the amount of arrears which led to 
recording of the status.
 
Mr N has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, he said:
The credit refence agency, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and other 
various parties have all agreed the information being recorded is incorrect if 
payments are being made. 
The ICO doesnt believe Barclays is adhering to good banking practices. 
He isnt happy that Barclays is reporting that payments arent being made when they 
are. This in turn has impacted his credit rating and his ability to get a vehicle for work.  
Barclays didnt report he had made an arrangement with it on the mortgage current 
account, so this wasnt reflected on his account history. 
He has queried why the account balance on the mortgage current account hasnt 
reduced in a way that is reflective of the payments made  the balance had reduced 
by £180 when £770 had been paid over a seven-month period. 
I asked Mr N to provide a full copy of his credit file which has been provided. I also asked 
him to provide copy correspondence from the ICO and his credit reference agency if they 
had conducted an independent review of his concerns. Although Mr N has recounted 
discussions and provided extracts of correspondence he says he received, he hasnt 
provided any actual copy correspondence; I understand the matter is being left to our 
investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr N and Barclays that although I have only summarised 
the background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety. This includes the spreadsheets Mr N has provided showing what he believes his 
account statuses should look like and where he believes there are anomalies. My role isnt to 
comment on each point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue  that is, whether 
Barclays has recorded information on Mr Ns credit history correctly. 
Having considered the information provided, I am broadly in agreement the information 
Barclays has been recording is an accurate reflection of the how the accounts have been 
run. 
The ICO has principles concerning The Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies and I have taken these into account when determining this 
complaint.  For ease, I will deal with the accounts in turn.
The mortgage current account
The aforementioned principles set out, under calculating and reporting arrears that:Conduct outside the terms and conditions are reported through status codes such as 
1,2 etc which are based on the monthly performance of the account. 
Status can be based on missed payments, months past repayment date and in the 
case of a current account it can be calculated as continual unauthorised excess over 
the agreed overdraft. 
The mortgage current account had an agreed overdraft limit of £16,330. Mr N exceeded that 
limit in December 2010 and it has only very recently been brought below that limit. That 
means Mr N was continually in an unauthorised excess over the agreed limit for that time. 
The Principles set out that the status can reflect that continual unauthorised excess, and Im 
satisfied that is what happened here. 
There is no dispute that Mr N had been making payments to the account and has done for a 
few years now through various payment arrangements. But as those payments never 
brought the account in order (until very recently), and it remained over the limit, the bank 
was entitled to record that.
 
Mr N is unhappy that payments are being recorded as missed. But I dont think that is what 
the information shows. It only shows the status of the account. The credit file information 
shows that Mr Ns most recent months are recorded as 0 as the account had been brought 
within the £70 unauthorised limit excess before Barclays records it is over limit; before that 
the status was 6 as the account had been in excess of the limit for six months or more. So 
Im satisfied the status of the account has been recorded correctly  it is a correct reflection 
of Mr Ns mortgage current account.
 
I accept when Mr N drills down further into the information it shows the status and then 
describes the payments as Payments up to 6 months late. Technically that is correct, as 
the account had been in excess for six months or more. But if Mr N is unhappy that 
payments are being presented as late when he is making payments that is a matter for the 
credit reference agency; it is responsible for how the information is presented not Barclays. 
It is also important to remember that the information Mr N sees isnt necessarily the same as 
what any prospective lender sees. And prospective lenders will know how to interpret the 
data. I would also add that other credit reference agencies might show the information in a 
different way. 
Mr N has queried why, when he has paid £770 into the account, the balance has only 
reduced by £180. It doesnt appear Mr N is taking account of the interest that is added to the 
account each month.  As an example the statement for March/April 2017 shows Mr N paid 
£80 into the account. But interest was charged on the balance owed of £65.61. This meant 
the balance reduced by £14.39, not the £80 Mr N paid. 
Finally Mr N complains Barclays had not shown he was in an arrangement to pay. He is 
correct, this is information that should be recorded on his credit file. It shows prospective 
lenders that although there are arrears on the account, Mr N is working with his lender to 
bring the account back in order. Barclays has acknowledged that this information should 
have been recorded.  But having considered this carefully Im not persuaded this, of itself, 
would have made a difference to any credit assessment, given the status of the account, and 
how long for, was correct, and the separate mortgage arrears Mr N had. 
The mortgage accountAs set out above, the status code on a credit file can include months past repayment due  it 
is a different type of account to the mortgage current account. And this is what Barclays is, 
and has been, recording on Mr Ns credit file. 
I accept, as Mr N has argued, that credit files only record information for the past six years.  
But if arrears have accrued on an account before then and remain outstanding, then they will 
form part of the balance owed and that is in arrears, and therefore past its repayment due 
date. This in turn means it will impact on what is recorded on a credit file.
 
I have taken an example of this from Mr Ns mortgage account history. In November 2010, 
Mr N had cleared the existing arrears on his account and it was in credit by just under £28. 
His contractual mortgage repayment due was £763.69.  But he had an arrangement to pay 
£407.84, a difference of £355.85. This meant from December 2010 he was again in arrears. 
And each month he paid the lesser amount, the difference would increase the amount of 
arrears by the same amount. And once the arrears reached the same amount as a 
contractual monthly repayment, Mr N would, in effect be one month in arrears. 
Month Contractual 
repayment dueAmount paid difference arrears
Dec 2010 £763.69 £407.84 £355.85 £328.45
Jan 2011 £763.69 £407.84 and a 
refunded charge 
of £82.25 £355.85 £602.05
Feb 2011 £763.69 £407.84 £355.85 £957.90
As can be seen, by February 2011, Mr N is over one month in arrears on his account. Apart 
from a period of four months where Mr N only paid interest, and the very occasional  
increased payment, Mr N didnt pay the contractual amount due on his mortgage until 
October 2013. This meant arrears continued to accrue on his account, even though he had 
entered into arrangements with Barclays and was making payments. 
I have seen the correspondence Mr N was sent when an arrangement was made. And this 
did explain that any difference in the payments would accrue as arrears. So this is 
something Mr N ought to have been aware of. 
From October 2013, Mr N did start making payments over and above the contractual 
monthly repayment. But on occasion, payments were either lower than the amount required 
and/or agreed, or payments werent made at all. For example, in March 2017, the 
contractual amount due was £583.39; Mr N didnt make a payment in March, the payment in 
April was for £175 and the payment in May £351.88. And no payment was made in June 
2017. From July 2017, Mr N was in arrears by over £4,000 (as Mr N was already in arrears 
prior to this point). This is when the credit file records him as being a status 6. Im satisfied 
that is a correct reflection of the account status at the time. 
Under Agreed reduced or revised payments within the ICO principles, it is explained that:
If, due to financial difficulty, your lender agrees a reduced or revised payment with 
you, this will be reflected on your credit file. How revised or reduced payments are 
shown on your credit file will depend on whether it is a temporary or permanent 
change to the agreement. The account may or may not be in arrears at the time of 
change.

Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs.This may also occur if there is a temporary change in terms (that is not part of the 
product) such as a payment holiday or change to interest only. 
An arrangement may also be provided when a customer has agreed with the lender 
to make overpayments to clear historic arrears. 
Depending on the period and amount of the arrangement, arrears may continue to be 
reported. Such temporary arrangements may last for some time but are generally 
expected to revert to the contracted terms at some future point. For such accounts 
arrears may continue to be calculated in accordance with the contracted terms. 
Mr N has referred to the arrangements as binding agreements. I dont agree that is what 
they were; they were not changes to Mr Ns mortgage contract such that the contractual 
monthly repayment due had changed. They were temporary agreements that Barclays 
agreed with Mr N due to his circumstances and they ran for set periods of time. And as set 
out in the Principles, arrears could continue to be reported.
 
Mr Ns credit file shows the status of his mortgage account. And as I understand it, it also 
shows he is in an arrangement to pay. It will only be the latest arrangement that shows on 
his credit file information  not all the arrangements that have ever been agreed to. Once an 
arrangement is broken, replaced, or it comes to an end, there is no longer an arrangement in 
place.
 
As set out above, status can be reflective of months past repayment due date. Mr N still had 
outstanding arrears on his mortgage account at the time of making his complaint. So 
although he was, and is, making payments, it is correct that the status reflects the amount of 
arrears. And as payments are allocated to the oldest outstanding arrears, that will inevitably 
mean where Mr N is, lets say two months in arrears, he is effectively two months late. 
Overall, and having considered the evidence carefully, Im satisfied the information recorded 
on Mr Ns credit file is reflective of both how the mortgage account and the mortgage current 
account were operated. It follows that I wont be asking Barclays to make any amendments 
to that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman