DRN-4002075
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to refund him 
transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr M says he was living abroad for a period of time between 2018 and 2019. During this 
period, he says his ex-partner at the time used his account without his permission to make 
transactions with his debit card and his online banking to transfer funds out of his account.
Mr M asked Halifax for a refund of these transactions but they declined to do so, believing 
him responsible for them.
Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review 
where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
Both parties were asked for information about the complaint. Mr M said he was travelling to a 
country where his debit card wouldnt work, so left it behind at home. He said that hed been 
with his partner for some time, so she must have been able to acquire the Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) for his debit card. He believed that his card had been replaced 
and sent to his home that his ex-partner had access to, and shed been able to use his 
account to spend funds. Also, shed locked him out of his internet banking. Mr M said he 
didnt use his account or check it whilst abroad as he was using cash.
Halifax provided details of their investigation and information about the disputed transactions 
claimed by Mr M. Their records showed that when Mr M first notified them about the issue, 
hed told Halifax that hed travelled with the card. Halifax determined that the disputed 
transactions made with a card used the genuine one issued to Mr M, and some used the 
card and PIN. Because Mr M had said it was with him, it couldnt be explained how it had 
also been used to make the disputed transactions and Halifax declined to refund him on that 
basis.
Further information was sought from Mr M about certain transfers made from his account to 
his ex-partners account. These were made at the time he said he wasnt using it which Mr M 
never answered. After reviewing the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint, believing him responsible for the transactions from his account, either made by 
himself or by giving permission to his ex-partner.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Halifax can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr M authorised the 
transactions, but Halifax cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of the 
internet banking system conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Halifax can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr M. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr M responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Theres some inconsistency with Mr Ms version of events throughout this complaint. The 
notes of Mr Ms interaction with Halifax show he first told them he had his card with him 
when he was abroad. That means the use of the genuine card in the UK would, on the face 
of it, seem at odds with the evidence. Because the card uses a Chip contained in it to assist 
with the authentication of the transactions, Halifax can show that it was the card they 
originally issued to Mr M, rather than a copy of the card.
Mr Ms version changed when he brought his complaint to our service, and he then said he 
didnt travel with it and his ex-partner could have obtained the PIN because they lived 
together. Whilst its plausible for a long-term partner to obtain the PIN, I dont think thats the 
likely explanation here. There is some doubt about what happened to the card because the 
story has changed. Also, Ive examined the statements for the period Mr M says he was 
abroad. What that shows is a fairly typical history of spending from the account. It also 
includes multiple deposits from another account used by Mr M to top up this one (which I 
presume is a savings account). That indicates the account was being managed to prevent it 
going overdrawn.
There are also transfers into the account from his ex-partner during this period, which would 
seem odd if she was using it herself. Why would she need to send money to Mr Ms account 
from her own one that she was already in control of?  
Theres also no explanation how his ex-partner could have obtained the necessary details 
required to log in to the internet banking. These details are far more difficult to obtain 
because they involve passwords and login details, rather than just a four figure PIN (for the 
debit card). Without these login details, its unlikely that his ex-partner could have used the 
account, unless she did so with Mr Ms permission. The evidence from the statements 
indicates there was money passing between them, which seems to be behaviour untypical of 
someone who had unauthorised access to the account. 
Mr M also said his debit card was replaced while he was away, enabling his ex-partner to 
utilise the new card. But, having looked at the information provided by Halifax, it was the 
original card issued to Mr M that had the disputed transactions reported on it. His card was 
replaced in May 2019, but this was around the time Mr M has said he returned to the UK. 
The evidence doesnt show his card was replaced while he was abroad, so together with the 
inconsistencies in his version of events and the lack of a plausible explanation about how his 
online account was accessed, I think its more likely than not that he was responsible for the 
transactions. Mr M would also be responsible, even if some of the disputed transactions 
were carried out by another person, as its unlikely they could have done so without his permission. It follows that I think it was both fair and reasonable for Halifax to hold him liable 
for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman