DRN-2935678
The complaint
Mr B complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly decided to cancel his motor 
insurance telematics policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B took out an Advantage motor insurance policy online. The cover 
required him to have a telematics box fitted to his car to monitor how it was driven. This 
recorded four aspects of his driving behaviour. These included acceleration and braking. 
Each is given a score out of 100. Those scores are used to produce an overall cumulative 
driving score  also out of 100. The policy terms said if this score dropped below 40 hed be 
sent a warning and his cover might be cancelled.  
In January 2020 Advantage sent Mr B an email warning him his score had dropped below 
40. It said his policy would be cancelled if it hadnt improved after a further 200 miles. In May 
2020 Advantage sent Mr B another email. It said his score was again below 40. It said it 
would be reviewed in 14 days time. It said if his driving score for that period was below 40 
the policy would be cancelled. At the end of that period Advantage issued a notice of 
cancellation. Before its expiry Mr B cancelled the policy himself. 
But Mr B felt he was being awarded an unfair score for braking. He complained to 
Advantage that there were problems with the box and the data. 
Advantage responded to Mr Bs complaint in June 2020. It said it was satisfied the telematics 
box was working properly and that his scores had been applied correctly. It said it had given 
Mr B sufficient time to improve his overall score to avoid cancellation. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by Advantages explanation for some discrepancies in the 
data for Mr Bs braking behaviour. So he felt that data shouldnt be considered and if hadnt 
been, there wouldnt have been a cancellation. He set out various steps, including paying 
compensation, he felt Advantage should take to put things right for Mr B. Mr B accepted the 
recommendations, but Advantage didnt. So the complaint was passed to me.
In July 2021 I issued a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision so Ive included 
it below. In it I said why I didnt intend to require Advantage to pay Mr B any compensation, 
refund any charges or do anything differently. I also asked him and Advantage to provide 
any further comments they would like considered before I issue a final decision. 
what Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms say if Mr Bs overall score drops below 40 Advantage will send him 
a warning and may cancel the cover. Mr Bs score was below 40 when a seven-day 
cancellation notice was issued. He had previously been warned that he needed to 
increase his score to avoid cancellation. Unfortunately, the score hadnt increased 
within the 14 days provided. So Im satisfied the policy cancellation notice was issued 
in line with the terms of the policy. Ive also considered if its decision to do so was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr B feels it wasnt. He says there was a problem with the telematics box and the 
data it provided to calculate his score. Ive considered the data, Advantages 
explanations and Mr Bs comments. Having done so, there isnt enough for me to say 
there probably was a problem with box, the data or the scores given to Mr B.  
Mr B had a very low score for the time of day the car was used. The data shows him 
driving frequently between the hours of 10pm and 5am. Mr B doesnt seem to be 
disputing this. Instead he says he often drove home from work during these hours. 
Theres nothing that makes me think he was given an unfair score for this behaviour.   
The score for speed was fairly low at the time of cancellation. His speed score seems 
to broadly follow the pattern of recorded speeding events  for example driving at 
45mph in a 30mph limit. The speed score drops early on during the policy to a low of 
10. It increases to 35, before the cancellation notice, in line with a reduction of 
recorded speeding events. Having looked at the data Ive no reason to think Mr Bs 
speed was recorded incorrectly or that incorrect speed limits were applied. So I cant 
say his speed score was unfair.  
Mr Bs complained that driving at one mile per hour above the limit was recorded as a 
speeding event. That did happen on occasion, but I cant say thats unfair. His 
recorded speed was above the relevant limit. And in any event the significant majority 
of speeding events recorded a higher speed excess. 
The telematics data provided by Advantage shows Mr Bs braking score was at 100 
for the first month of the policy. It then drops as the telematics box recorded braking 
events. It decreases by about 15 points per month until it reaches 59 at the end of 
April 2020. In the following month or so it drops to 29. 
Our investigator felt that reduction in May 2020 resulted in Mr Bs overall score falling 
below 40 and him receiving a warning and cancellation. He felt some of the braking 
score data for that month was unclear. He highlighted a couple of braking events 
recorded against Mr B. He reasonably questioned data showing both braking events 
starting and ending with a recorded speed of 0 mph. He also highlighted that the data 
showed Mr B as being in exactly the same location at the start and end. Furthermore, 
he questioned how the recorded speed, around the braking events, appeared to 
fluctuate unrealistically  for example from 70 mph plus to 0 in a very short period of 
time. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded by Advantages explanation. However, I feel what 
its said is reasonable. Its a plausible explanation for me. The braking and 
acceleration scores are based on a G-force measurement taken by the telematics 
box in the car. Whilst the speed and location of the vehicle is measured through a 
GPS satellite system. Advantage says braking and acceleration scores are not 
related to the speed recorded by the GPS system. It says the anomalies, highlighted 
by the investigator, are explained by insufficient satellite coverage at the relevant 
time. That seems a reasonable explanation to me. So the discrepancies dont make 
me think the box probably wasnt recording Mr Bs braking behaviour fairly. 
Mr Bs braking score did get cumulatively worse as braking events became more 
frequent over time. I cant explain why that happened. Its possible his driving style changed. I also accept its possible the box did develop a problem. But I havent seen 
enough to make me think thats most likely what happened. 
Advantage says its testing didnt show any issues. Its explanation for the 
discrepancies seems reasonable to me. And the scores seem to broadly follow the 
recorded driving behaviour. So I cant say Mr B was given an unfair score or that the 
notice of cancellation was issued unfairly.  
Mr Bs said, in regard to the score for time of day driven, the policy terms dont 
specifically set out that driving between the hours of 10pm and 5 am can result in a 
low score. But Im satisfied he was informed when taking out the policy that those 
hours were explained to him. Ive seen the information provided during the sale. So 
again, I cant say Advantage acted unfairly by reducing Mr Bs score for driving 
during those hours. 
At certain points Mr B was unable to access a dashboard that provided his driving 
scores. That was unfortunate but I cant fairly say it resulted in Mr B having his policy 
cancelled. Im satisfied he was aware of how his score was being calculated some 
time before. In a call in January 2020 Advantage explained to him in fair detail what 
was required to achieve a suitable score.   
 
Im not currently persuaded there was a problem with the box, data or score. I think 
Advantage provided Mr B with reasonable time to improve his driving score. So I 
dont intend to find Advantage unfairly issued a notice to cancel Mr Bs policy. That 
means I dont intend to require it to pay him any compensation, refund any charges 
or do anything differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr B said he didnt agree with it. He 
explained some driving behaviour was outside of his control. He said he had no choice but to 
drive after 10pm because of his work. He also said if hes in traffic he has no choice but to 
break and accelerate. 
Ive already said Im satisfied Mr B was told, when taking out the policy, that driving between 
the hours of 10pm and 5am would reduce his score. So I cant say it was unfair when that 
did happen. In regard to braking and accelerating, Ive explained why Im not persuaded Mr 
B was given unfair or inaccurate scores. 
I havent been provided with anything that changes my mind on these issues. So Im not 
going to require Advantage to pay Mr B any compensation, refund any charges or do 
anything differently.My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman