DRN-3117867
The complaint
Mr P complains that Airdrie Savings Bank mis-sold him two single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies in 1992 and 1997 alongside two loans. 
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ps complaint and found that the PPI policy sold in 1992 wasnt 
mis-sold  but that the policy sold in 1997 should be upheld. 
Airdrie didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. 
Having done so, Ive found that I have reached the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will 
explain why below.
1992 sale
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the sale that took place in 1992. 
Mr P says that Airdrie didnt make it clear that the PPI policy was optional  and that he 
wasnt given a choice in taking it out  but he hasnt provided much detail about this. 
Unfortunately, no paperwork exists from the sale that took place in 1992, but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely.
Because of this, Im unable to say that Mr P wasnt given a choice in taking out the PPI 
policy, or that it wasnt presented as optional  so I cant uphold Mr Ps complaint for this 
reason.
It seems that Airdrie recommended the PPI to Mr P  and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  
Its possible the information Airdrie gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it. 
1997 sale
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the PPI policy he was sold in 1997.
Again, it seems that Airdrie recommended the PPI policy to Mr P  this means that it needed 
to take steps to ensure that the policy it sold was right for him before it sold him the policy  
if the policy was not right for him, then Airdrie should not have sold him the PPI. 
But at this time, Mr P has told us that he was no longer working. This means that ways in 
which Mr P couldve made a claim on the PPI policy wouldve been limited  and so Airdrie 
shouldve made Mr P aware of this, and not sold him the PPI.
Putting things right for the policy sold in 1997
Mr P borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been, and 
he paid more than he shouldve each month. So, Mr P needs to get back the extra hes paid. 
So, Airdrie should:
Work out and pay Mr P the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr P paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is and 8% a year.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest. Airdrie must give Mr P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about the PPI policy sold in 1992.
I uphold Mr Ps complaint about the PPI policy sold in 1997 - Airdrie Savings Bank should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman