DRN-4021000
The complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card online from Halifax in May 2022. The bank approved his
application and gave him a £4,500 credit limit. Mr R says he should not have been given the
card, he already had others that he was struggling to pay back. He has had to take out more
loans to repay this card. He says Halifax did not do enough to check he could afford the
credit.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Rs complaint. He said Halifax did not complete proportionate
checks and had it done so it would have seen Mr R was frequently overdrawn and gambling
regularly - so it was unlikely he could sustainably afford more credit.
Unhappy with this assessment, Halifax asked for an ombudsmans review. It said it carried
out proportionate checks and nothing in the results indicated further checks were needed, so
it could not reasonably have been aware of Mr Rs financial instability.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Halifax asked for some information from Mr R when he applied  his annual
income, his employment status and his residential status. It also estimated his living costs
using national statistics. It then carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and
existing credit commitments. From these checks combined it concluded Mr R had enough
disposable income for the credit to be affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this application for credit. To
reach this conclusion Ive thought about how much Mr R would need to spend each month to
sustainably repay the debt, assuming he used the full credit limit, relative to his declared
income, and taking into account the other committed expenses he had.
And I think Halifax made a fair lending decision based on the results of these checks. Mr R
told Halifax he was earning £30,000 a year, so £1,987 net a month. He told it he had no
housing costs, and it estimated his living costs to be £459. The credit check showed his
existing commitments totalled £179 a month, that he was up to date with all his repayments
and that there was no adverse data on his file. So, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to
conclude the credit would be affordable.
I dont think there was anything in the information Halifax gathered - or in the nature of the
credit application - that meant Halifax ought to have carried out further checks. I am aware
Mr Rs bank statements showed his financial position was not stable, with frequent use of his
overdraft and regular gambling transactions. His actual income was also lower than he
declared. However, for the reasons set out above I think it would have been disproportionate
for Halifax to carry out the level of checks needed for it to see this.
It follows I dont think Halifax was wrong to give this credit card to Mr R.
Both parties responded to say they had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new information or comments I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my decision. 
I do not find Halifax was wrong to give Mr R this credit card with its £4,500 limit. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman