DRN-3065477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ancile Insurance Group Limited didnt provide them with enough 
support when they were looking into making a potential claim on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held an annual travel insurance policy which had been sold to them by Ancile. 
In February 2020, they booked a holiday abroad. They paid a deposit for their 
accommodation at that point and were due to pay the balance in September 2020. Their 
annual policy subsequently renewed and cover under it began on 1 June 2020. Ancile wasnt 
the policy underwriter though. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call U. 
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs C got in touch with Ancile. They were concerned because theyd 
learned that travel policies had become more restrictive in terms of Covid-19 cover and their 
accommodation balance had become due. They had concerns that Covid-19 related claims 
wouldnt be covered.
Ancile referred Mr and Mrs C to the relevant policy terms. But it told them that it couldnt say 
how U would assess any claim they might make, as its own employees werent claims 
trained.  It explained that as it was a broker, it didnt handle claims. It suggested that Mr and 
Mrs C should contact the claims handling company directly and provided them with its 
contact details. Ultimately, following Mr and Mrs Cs decision to cancel their policy, it paid 
them a pro-rata refund of premium, less an administration fee.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the service theyd received from Ancile and they asked us 
to look into their complaint. They felt it had fobbed them off when it referred them to the 
policy terms and didnt answer their questions. They felt that Ancile should pay them a small 
amount of compensation to recognise the upset itd caused.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
Ancile wasnt the policy insurer and so it wasnt responsible for assessing claims. She said 
shed expect Ancile to refer a customer to their insurer if they had a query about a claim. And 
in this case, thats what Ancile had done. So she didnt think Ancile needed to pay Mr and 
Mrs C any compensation.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They said their relationship was with Ancile and that by fobbing 
them off, it wasnt meeting its regulatory obligations. They said theyd recognised that the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19 were fluid and thats why theyd asked Ancile for 
clarification about the cover. They told us theyd just been looking for either a yes or no 
answer as to whether they should travel. If Ancile had told them they wouldnt be covered, 
theyd have immediately cancelled the policy. They felt if they had made a claim, it wouldve 
simply been rejected. So they maintained theyd suffered distress and inconvenience.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Mr and Mrs C havent complained to us about 
the amount of the premium refund they received from Ancile - their complaint refers to the 
service they received from it. So my decision considers that issue alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I think Ancile has treated them 
fairly. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, Ancile acted as a broker when it sold Mr and Mrs Cs policy. 
Its authorised by the industry regulator to arrange contracts of insurance. This meant it had 
regulatory obligations it had to fulfil when it sold the policy to Mr and Mrs C. But Ancile isnt 
authorised to carry out contracts of insurance. This means it cant, amongst other things, 
handle or assess claims. Thats the role of the policy underwriter  U.
So when Mr and Mrs C got in touch with Ancile to query whether their policy would 
potentially cover a claim, Ancile wasnt authorised to assess whether any claim would be 
payable under the terms of the insurance contract. And it wasnt able to indicate the likely 
outcome of any potential claim. It was down to U and its designated claims handling 
company to assess whether any claim would be covered.
Ancile did have a responsibility to act in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests. So Id have expected 
it to take reasonable steps to try and assist Mr and Mrs C so far as it could. And having 
considered the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did so. 
I say that because I can see from the correspondence between Mr and Mrs C and Ancile 
that Ancile explained it couldnt assess claims and directed them to the relevant claims 
handling company. It did point out a term of the policy in response to Mr and Mrs Cs 
question, which I think was an appropriate response. And it provided Mr and Mrs C with the 
claims handling companys telephone number, email address and a link to a claims form. Its 
final response also suggested that it could ask the claims handling company to get in touch 
with Mr and Mrs C so that a potential claim could be looked into. In the round then, I think 
Ancile took fair and reasonable steps to try and help Mr and Mrs C establish whether U 
would be likely to pay a claim. But I dont agree that directing Mr and Mrs C to the relevant 
and appropriate authorised company to answer that question meant that Ancile was fobbing 
them off.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have said that if Ancile had told them upfront that their policy 
wouldnt cover them, theyd have cancelled their policy immediately. But as Ive set out 
above, Ancile simply wasnt responsible for making or authorised to make such a decision 
about policy cover. And I find that it did direct Mr and Mrs C to the appropriate company and 
in a timely way. So while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs decision, because I appreciate 
they found themselves in a difficult situation, I dont think Ancile did anything wrong in the 
way it responded to their query. This means I dont find that Ancile needs to pay Mr and Mrs 
C any compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman