DRN-4109298
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about a claim he made on his Amtrust Europe Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Amtrust refused to fund his claim after their panel firm determined it didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success.
Mr N feels that Amtrust were wrong to turn down his claim and feels that hes been treated 
unfairly as a result.
All references to Amtrust in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. And the facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has requested a phone call to discuss his complaint with me. Thats not something Ive 
considered is necessary in this case as I have enough information to decide his complaint. 
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr Ns complaint for the same 
conclusions reached by the investigator. These are my reasons:
The policy terms require Mr Ns claim to have reasonable prospects of success in order 
for Amtrust to fund it. Amtrust instructed a panel firm who obtained expert evidence to 
ascertain the merits of Mr Ns claim. The expert evidence was not supportive of Mr Ns 
claim and the panel firms legal opinion was that it didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success.
Amtrust were entitled to rely on the opinion of the panel firm. An insurer is not an expert 
in the legal position so theyre entitled to rely on someone who is. In a claim like this wed 
expect Amtrust to instruct a legal professional who is suitably qualified. Amtrust did this. 
An insurer is entitled to rely on the advice of a suitably qualified legal professional unless 
that advice is obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. Mr N says the panel firm 
have relied on factual mistakes, like the date of the incident that led to his claim. The 
panel says that the mistakes hes cited arent mistakes- they are based on the content of 
the factual documents and evidence he provided them with- and in any event this 
wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of the merits of his claim which is founded in 
the expert evidence they obtained.
Mr N says hes asked the panel firm and the expert a number of questions and these 
havent been addressed. Amtrust raised this with the panel firm. As I understand it the 
panel firm reverted to the expert on three occasions with Mr Ns questions and this didnt 
change the merits of his claim. I can see the panel firm have also reverted to Mr N on 
more than one occasion to explain their advice too. Theyve also disclosed all the 
information hes asked for. I cant expect Amtrust to do anything further beyond this and 
Im satisfied theyve done enough to ensure Mr Ns complaints have been addressed as 
they should have been.
Amtrust has said that Mr N is entitled to get his own expert evidence and legal opinion if 
he thinks the current evidence and advice is wrong. Theyve said theyd be prepared to 
reconsider funding his claim if any new evidence and opinion is supportive of it. I think 
this is reasonable and in line with the approach this Service would adopt in that type of 
situation.
Mr N is unhappy that Amtrust said they wouldnt fund his claim any further with only six 
months remaining on the limitation applicable to his claim. Hes provided a letter from 
another firm saying thats not long enough for it to properly investigate the claim. Whilst I 
appreciate his position, I think that six months is ample time for Mr N to take advice 
elsewhere and that Amtrust have discharged their obligations under the policy in any 
event. They are not obliged to cover his claim just because its coming up to the end of 
limitation period. And Mr N pursuing his claim before limitation is not Amtrusts 
responsibility if policy cover is not available to him.
I appreciate that Mr N is unhappy with the actions of the panel firm. Thats not something 
that I can consider as it doesnt fall within my remit. The panel firm are a separate 
organisation to Amtrust with their own codes of conduct and regulator. If he remains 
dissatisfied, he can raise it with the panel firm directly or complain to The Legal 
Ombudsman.
Finally, Mr N says hes been sold a policy thats not fit for purpose. In this complaint Im 
not looking at the way in which the policy was sold- thats a complaint against the seller 
and not Amtrust, who are the insurer. If Mr N feels the policy was mis-sold to him, he can 
raise this with the seller directly. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman