DRN-2727114
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
her a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she hadnt 
authorised FTR to make.
What happened
In February 2020, Ms C was told she had a successful PPI claim with one of her lenders Ill 
call L. Ms C said shed asked the Financial Ombudsman Service, in June 2019,  to look 
into any lenders who may have mis-sold her PPI. And L had been in touch with her shortly 
after that. But in March 2020 Ms C said FTR asked her to pay their fee for the successful 
claim. Ms C said she had looked at FTRs services but hadnt used them, and she hadnt 
signed anything for them to act on her behalf. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Ms C agreed in August 2019 to use their services. And had signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) authorising them to act on her behalf to pursue mis-sold PPI claims with 
lender L. Ms C hadnt cancelled her agreement with them, and as her claim was successful 
their fee was justified.
Ms C said she didnt remember signing any documents and the signature and handwriting 
on the LoA wasnt hers. She also said the compensation offered to her was less than what 
FTR said shed receive. Ms C referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Ms C had authorised FTR to pursue her mis-sold PPI 
claim. And she said FTR had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. 
Ms C didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I consider most likely happened. 
I can understand Ms Cs frustration as she doesnt think she authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And she said she hadnt responded to FTRs request for documents to be completed 
and signed.
 
In making my decision I need to determine whether Ms C had authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to 
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Ms C.
Ms C has shown she complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service in June 2019, her 
complaint wasnt about a specific lender. She said she wanted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to look into any mis-sold PPI claims with all of her lenders. But that isnt the role of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, they will consider complaints that have been brought 
against a business. 
And if a consumer hasnt yet complained to the business, they must according to the rules 
they must follow, allow the business eight weeks to consider the consumers complaint. If the 
consumer isnt happy with the business final response, or the business has taken more than 
eight weeks to consider the complaint a consumer can bring a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service within certain timeframes.
So, in June 2019 the Financial Ombudsman Service wouldnt have considered or 
investigated Ms Cs complaint as the business mentioned hadnt had the opportunity to 
consider and respond to Ms Cs complaint. But they would have started the eight-week 
process for her to allow each business to consider her complaint. This may explain why 
some of her claims were successful. But for lender L I can see they asked Ms C in July 
2019 for further information as they couldnt locate an account for her. But I cant see that Ms 
C responded to this request. 
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for lender L in 
August 2019. Ms C disputes she completed the on line application and doesnt agree that 
she signed and submitted it.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR  has shown the screens Ms C would have 
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterix linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Ms C about her personal details and her 
lenders. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms C has 
given to us. They include date of birth, current address, previous address and previous 
known names. And as these are specific to Ms C, its unlikely FTR would have known this 
information.  So, Im satisfied she would have completed this stage of the journey. 
On completing the application, a LoA was generated, populated with this information. And 
FTR has said this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement for 
Ms C to add a date as this would be pre-populated. Im not a handwriting expert, as I 
mentioned previously my decision is based on probability. And on balance, I consider Ms C 
to have completed the application so Ive no reason to doubt she also signed the LoA. As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Ms C had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
In December 2019, I can see FTR notified Ms C that PPI had been found and asked her to 
complete and sign a PPI questionnaire. Several messages were sent to Ms Cs phone 
number ending *3662 (the same number Ms C has given to us) that said:
 Great News You HAVE Paid PPI. 
This doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be successful, as the claim needs to 
show the PPI policy was mis-sold. Which is why FTR asked Ms C to complete the PPI 
questionnaire, as this could provide information to strengthen her claim. The messages had 
a FTR customer number for Ms C. And said that she may be unable to get a refund if she 
didnt complete the questionnaire. Ms C has said that she didnt complete or return the PPI 
questionnaire.
I think if Ms C was certain she hadnt asked FTR to work for her, she could have taken this 
opportunity to ask FTR about their involvement. The claim may not have been formalised 
according to Ms C, but its not enough that she simply disengaged from the process to 
consider this as her cancelling her agreement with them. I cant see any evidence that 
despite opportunities for Ms C to speak to or get in touch with FTR, it wasnt until after her 
claim was successful that she questioned their involvement. 
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. 
FTR has said that their fee is justified because lender L had auto converted, which means 
they investigated Ms Cs claim based on the details they sent in the LoA. 
As outlined above lender L asked for specific information in July 2019, without which they 
were unable to consider Ms Cs PPI enquiry. I cant see that Ms C pursued her complaint 
directly with lender L. The information they needed I can see was supplied in the LoA, 
completed in August 2019. And they wrote to both Ms C and FTR about the outcome of their 
investigation. I think this shows lender L accepted FTR had authority to represent Ms C in 
making her PPI claim, and they werent solely dealing with Ms C. Im satisfied the success of 
Ms Cs claim was based on the PPI enquiry made by FTR.
The agreement Ms C had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And as outlined above the 
fee FTR charged was made clear on the on-line screen information.
I know Ms C will be disappointed with my decision. But I think she had authorised FTR to act 
on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled that agreement before her claim was successful. I can see Ms C was unhappy about the compensation amount FTR has based their fee on. 
But as explained by our investigator FTR calculate their fee on the redress offered by the 
lender before income tax is deducted. The redress lender L gave to Ms C was the 
calculation after income tax was deducted.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman