DRN-3410548
The complaint
Miss V is a sole trader. She complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined her 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Miss V was an existing personal customer of HSBC and applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan in February 2021.
HSBC required customers to hold a business relationship with the bank before it would offer 
them a Bounce Back Loan  meaning that personal customers, like Miss V, had to open 
either a feeder account or business current account before they could apply for a loan.
When completing her loan application, Miss V incorrectly stated that she already held a 
business current account with the bank. So the application proceeded on this basis, without 
requiring her to apply for a business account as required.
HSBC reviewed Miss Vs application but declined it. When explaining its decision, the bank 
said she wasnt eligible to apply as her business had started after 5 April 2019.
Miss V didnt think this was correct and thought she met the eligibility criteria for a Bounce 
Back Loan, so she raised a complaint. But HSBC maintained its position, so Miss V asked 
us to look into things. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said, in 
summary, that:
HSBC shouldve spotted that Miss V had made an error in her application and 
redirected her to apply for one of the accounts she needed in order to apply for the 
loan.
HSBC hadnt clearly explained to Miss V why her application had been declined, 
particularly as the Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility criteria required applicants to 
have been trading from 1 March 2020 and not 5 April 2019 as the bank was saying.
To put things right, HSBC should allow Miss V to reapply for the requisite account 
and then, if successful, consider an application from her for the Bounce Back Loan. 
He also thought it should pay Miss V compensation of £100 for the confusion caused 
by the way it had handled things.
Miss V accepted our investigators view but HSBC didnt. The bank said it had correctly 
declined Miss Vs application, which was incorrect due to an error on her part. It said the 
bank wasnt obliged to check or discuss that with her any further than it had. And it didnt 
think things wouldve turned out any differently even if Miss V had applied for one of the 
requisite accounts, as this wouldve been unsuccessful for the same reason that her loan 
application failed. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision on Miss Vs complaint earlier this month and invited both parties to respond with 
anything they wanted me to take into account before I made a final decision. 
I said:
HSBC required customers to hold a business relationship with the bank before it 
would consider an application from them for a Bounce Back Loan. Miss V didnt have 
such a relationship  she only held a personal account with the bank. But when 
completing her application, she incorrectly ticked a box to say that that she did  
when she ought to have selected an alternative option to indicate that she held only a 
personal account and would therefore need to discuss becoming verified as a 
business customer.
This error alone meant that the initial application was always going to fail. Miss V 
wasnt eligible to even apply to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan  as she needed to 
open a business account first. 
HSBC wasnt obliged to follow up on the application and point out to Miss V where 
she had gone wrong. But it did respond to Miss V and, when doing so, confused 
matters somewhat by saying that she was ineligible as shed started trading after 5 
April 2019. This wasnt listed in the core Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility 
criteria, so Miss V understandably sought to challenge the banks decision on this 
basis. It wouldve been clearer and more helpful simply to advise Miss V of her error 
 which would likely have prompted her to reapply for one of the requisite accounts. 
Ultimately, though, I dont think this really affected things  because when reviewing 
Miss Vs application, HSBC considered whether she was eligible for a business 
account and declined it on the basis that she wasnt. So the bank assessed Miss Vs 
application as if it had been properly completed anyway. 
HSBC says  and has evidenced  that its criteria for a business account required 
the applicant to have been trading on or before 5 April 2019. This was to be verified 
by the provision of a tax return. While this may have differed from the core eligibility 
criteria of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, the bank account was a separate product 
 and therefore legitimately subject to different requirements, at HSBCs discretion. In 
short, it remained up to the bank to decide who it wished to offer accounts to. And I 
dont think its criteria were unfair. They reflected expectations within the Loan 
Scheme rules as to how lenders would verify applicants applying through a personal 
account.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Miss V was ever going to be successful in 
her application to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan. She would always have needed a 
business account, but didnt meet the banks eligibility criteria for one.
However, as noted above, I do think HSBC caused some avoidable confusion. While 
it wasnt obliged to explain the basis of its decision, it did so  but unclearly. This 
engaged Miss V in further contact and correspondence about the matter than ought 
to have been necessary. And I can see how it wouldve been frustrating and added to what was already a stressful time for Miss V. So for this, I think HSBC should pay her 
compensation of £100.
HSBC and Miss V accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties having accepted my provisional decision without any 
further comment, Ive not seen any reason to reach a different conclusion. So this final 
decision simply confirms my provisional findings as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss V compensation 
of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman