DRN-3506534
The complaint
Mr G complains that an email American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) sent him 
was really ambiguous and had zero value, which wasted his time.
What happened
Mr G says that an email American Express sent him in relation to a campaign (Shop Small) 
they ran was ambiguous and had zero value to him. Mr G made a complaint to American 
Express. 
American Express did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said that they always endeavour to 
send communications to their customers which they think will be of interest. They said that 
their call handler had offered to turn off further marketing emails for him, but Mr G declined 
this. American Express said that as this was the first time Mr G had notified them of his 
dissatisfaction in receiving these types of emails, and they cant see that they have acted 
incorrectly in sending him the email in question.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He 
said he had looked at the Shop Small initiative online and saw it was about supporting small
businesses in the local community and Mr G would potentially receive perks and benefits as 
an American Express customer by participating in the campaign. He said UK regulated 
businesses are permitted to send their customers marketing material emails unless their 
customer has specifically asked them not to. He said American Express confirmed Mr G 
hadnt previously asked them not to send him marketing material and he declined their offer 
to prevent future marketing emails being sent to him.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the email in question was sent randomly and didnt add any value at all. 
He said the email was sent a long time since the event ended and the content did not make 
sense. Mr G said he wasted his time in calling American Express as the email was so 
random, and he didnt understand it. He said companies shouldnt have a free pass by 
sending random and useless emails just because they can.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr G from the outset that Im unable to tell American Express what content they 
should include in their marketing/newsletter emails they send their customers, as this is a 
commercial decision for American Express to make. 
Mr G has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr G has about this email and the value it gave him. 
He feels the email was ambiguous, not clear and was sent randomly, long after the Shop 
Small campaign had ended. So I understand why this issue is important to him. 
But the value that someone gets from an email which is sent to them is very subjective and 
will change from one person to another person. For example, some customers who 
participated in the Shop Small campaign may have felt a sense of pride that they had helped 
a small business, who in turn helped their local community, so they may have got a lot of 
value out of the email. Whereas another customer may have only participated in the scheme 
to not necessarily help a small business, but because they got a discount if they spent a 
certain amount during the campaign period and they might have seen no value in the email 
and deleted it. So Im not persuaded a business could gauge the value to each customer 
they sent the specific email to. 
Ive considered if American Express were fair to send Mr G this email. And Im persuaded 
that they were. Mr G has not opted out of receiving marketing offers/newsletters by email. 
Im satisfied that the email Mr G received would fit in this category, even if he says it was a 
while after the event. American Express have told us that Mr G had redeemed an offer in 
relation to this promotion, so Im satisfied that the email was not random and it was relevant 
to how Mr G had previously used his account in relation to participating in the Shop Small 
campaign. 
Im not persuaded that the email was so ambiguous that Mr G needed to contact American 
Express about the email. The email mentioned the name of the campaign several times and 
thanked him for shopping small, which he had done as part of the campaign. The email was 
sent after the campaign had finished and it contained the testimonials of three merchants 
about how American Expresss campaign had helped their small businesses with their 
customers using their businesses as a part of this campaign. American Express have also 
said that they send an email like this every year after the campaign has completed.
So Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable that American Express sent Mr G this email 
when he had participated in the promotion, even if he saw no value in receiving the email 
and thought American Express were wasting his time. It would be up to Mr G if he wanted to 
benefit from this promotion again if he was eligible to do so, but based on American Express 
saying they send an email like this every year after a campaign has completed, he should be 
aware its likely he would receive a similar email in the future. Therefore Mr G may wish to 
opt out of marketing/newsletter emails if he finds these types of emails to be distressing or 
inconvenient. But as Mr G had previously not opted out marketing/newsletter emails, then 
Im not persuaded that American Express were unreasonable for sending him this particular 
email. So it follows I dont require American Express to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman