DRN-2253932
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that EUI Limited (trading as Admiral) declined his claim made under the 
home emergency part of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W had a water leak from a radiator in his home. He had home emergency cover with 
Admiral and he says he checked the documents and noted that he needed to notify Admiral 
within 48 hours of an emergency. Mr W arranged for a local plumber to come and repair the 
leak the same day at a cost of £114. The next day he called Admiral to claim back this cost 
under his policy.
Admiral declined the claim. It said that Mr Ws policy included the following term as part of its 
general exceptions:
No costs for repairs, parts or services are payable under this insurance unless we have 
been notified by you or a person calling on your behalf through the 24 hour claims helpline, 
and we have approved a contractor in advance.
So Admiral said that Mr W hadnt followed the claims process under the policy and the 
contractor hadnt been approved in advance.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked at all the 
evidence and concluded that, in the circumstances, Admiral hadnt acted unfairly in relying 
on the terms and conditions of its policy. So he didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has now asked me to make a final decision. He says the document with the exclusion 
wasnt physically provided to him and didnt appear to have been available in his online 
policy portal. Hes also emphasised that this policy is to cover a home emergency and its 
not fair to expect him to review the terms in detail when experiencing an emergency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers plumbing issues and specifically refers to leaking radiators. So, Im 
satisfied that the leak that Mr W made a claim about was the type of event that might be 
covered by the policy. So, there are two key questions for me to consider: did Mr W follow 
the claims procedure correctly and, if he didnt, was it fair for Admiral to have declined the 
claim?
It is true that the key features document says that Mr W must notify Admiral within 48 hours 
of an emergency. Mr W did this when he called Admiral the day after the leak. But the key 
features contain only a summary of the terms of the policy. Further details are contained in 
the full terms and conditions which, as quoted above, required Mr W to call Admiral to 
approve a contractor in advance to reimbursed for costs. So, Mr W didnt follow the claims 
procedure correctly when looking to recover his costs.
But was it fair for Admiral to decline the claim on the basis that Mr W didnt follow the correct 
process? Having looked at all the evidence, I think it was. 
As mentioned, the key features contain only a summary of the policy and I wouldnt expect 
the key features to set out the claims procedure in detail. Admiral has provided a screenshot 
of what the online portal would have contained and Im satisfied that the policy documents 
would have been available to Mr W.
I understand that in a home emergency, most people wont immediately sit down to re-
familiarise themselves with insurance policy documentation. But I think its fair to say that the 
very nature of this type of cover is that repairs are carried out by the insurers approved 
contractors unless the insurer is unable to provide a contractor in good time. So, I dont think 
the term requiring Mr W to contact Admiral before carrying out the repair to the leak was 
particularly unusual.
I accept that if Mr W had called Admiral as required by the policy, Admiral would likely have 
sent a contractor to carry out a repair and thus incurred a cost which, in principle, it could 
just now pay to Mr W. But, its not possible to know now what that cost would have been.  It 
may well have been around £114 but its possible that it could have been a lot lower too.  
And I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Admiral to pay towards this now given its 
inability to investigate or validate the claim in the usual way under its claims process.
So, whilst I understand Mr Ws frustration with whats happened, I dont think Admiral has 
done anything wrong in declining Mr Ws claim to be reimbursed for the costs of the repair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman