DRN-3090198
The complaint
 Mrs D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging her 
excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mrs D complained to Santander that it acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to
her account when she was in financial difficulty. She said the fees made her overdraft more 
difficult to repay. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs D was dis-satisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mrs D was experiencing financial difficulty by 2 July 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander disagreed, it says it monitored and regularly reviewed Mrs Ds account and 
provided appropriate support when needed. So the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mrs Ds 
overdraft from 2 July 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs D was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mrs D was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Santanders own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Mrs Ds overdraft usage should have prompted Santander to have realised 
that Mrs D wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. 
Furthermore, Mrs D had got in contact with Santander to ask for help as she was having 
difficulty with her finances and that the charges being added were making this worse. In 
these circumstances, Santander ought to have offered assistance and treated Mrs D with 
forbearance rather than add even more interest, fees and charges to her overdraft. I accept 
that Santander did waive fees totalling £150. But it started charging again without 
establishing that Mrs Ds position had improved and that she was able to manage  indeed 
Mrs D had to get in touch again in 2016 and 2018 before further support was provided. So I 
dont think Santander went far enough or that it acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander 
didnt treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.  
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 2 July 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mrs D to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs 
Ds credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 2 July 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman