DRN-4234955
The complaint
Mr J complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) decision to decline a 
claim for storm damage under the home buildings insurance policy he holds with his wife, 
Mrs J. 
Any references to RSA include its agents. Mr J is supported in this complaint by Ms P. 
However, for ease, Ill refer to Mr J throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on my decision and reasons for it. 
The matter was passed to me for a decision. I wasnt satisfied with the evidence provided by 
RSA to justify its decision to decline the claim. This related to the claim for storm damage as 
well as the internal damage under the accidental damage provisions of the policy. Both 
parties were contacted to explain I intended to uphold Mr Js complaint and ask RSA to put 
things right by taking the steps outlined below. 
1. Meet Mr Js claim for storm damage.
2. If any internal damage would remain unrepaired after this, to arrange for this to be
met under the accidental damage section of the policy.
3. Pay compensation of £750 to Mr J for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
declined claim, service and delays.
I recommended all repairs would need to be carried out forthwith, giving appropriate 
prioritisation to them in line with Mr Js health condition and the time he and Mrs J have 
already waited. They would also need to be arranged sensitively, where at all possible, 
around Mr Js treatment.
Both parties were given time to make further representations in this matter and both have 
responded. RSA accepted my recommendations. Mr J didnt. He made the following points.
1. Hes had an estimate for the work, in the region of £4,500, and needs an assurance 
RSA will cover everything that entails.
2. He doesnt accept the compensatory payment of £750 is adequate for all the distress 
caused by RSA declining the claim. This was felt over many months during an 
already difficult time. And the policy excess will reduce the compensation to around 
£500. Instead, compensation of £1,000 - £1,500 would be more appropriate.
The matter has been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the further comments from Mr J in response to my provisional 
decision. Having done so, I havent changed my initial recommendations. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I confirm RSA will meet the November 2022 claim for storm damage, and any internal 
damage caused by the storm. This will be up to the policy limits applicable when the claim 
was made. I havent seen any evidence to suggest this claim exceeds those limits. Even if it 
did, the policy limits wouldve still applied if RSA had initially accepted this claim and I see no 
reason to interfere with this.   
Turning now to the amount of compensation. I think its right RSA should pay compensation 
for the impact of it declining this claim without sufficient evidence. However, I think its 
important to distinguish between the following:
- the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs J suffered because there was storm 
damage to their home - and its consequences - at a time when Mr J was already 
unwell, which RSA isnt responsible for; and 
- the things RSA did or failed to do once it was notified of the claim that mightve 
added to that distress and inconvenience, which it is responsible for. 
When I recommended a compensatory amount of £750, this took into account the impact of 
the declined claim, which I appreciate was at an already difficult time for Mr and Mrs J, and 
the fact this impacted them over several months. I also considered the poor service and 
delays experienced. So, although I appreciate Mr J would like the compensation to be 
higher, I consider the redress Ive set out to be a fair way to resolve this complaint in all the 
circumstances.  
Finally, responding to the point about the excess. The excess is something which is fairly 
due under the policy terms. So, whilst I appreciate it will have the practical effect of reducing 
the overall amount RSA pays, this doesnt change the amount of compensation awarded for 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
I recognise Mr J may well be disappointed with this outcome as he feels the compensation 
should be higher. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with RSA  
can do for him.
Putting things right
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must take the following steps to put things right:
1. Meet Mr Js November 2022 claim for storm damage.
2. If any internal damage would remain unrepaired after this, to arrange for this to be
met under the accidental damage section of the policy.
3. Pay compensation of £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Points 1 and 2 are subject to all usual policy limitations and excesses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint. To put things right, Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited should take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman