DRN-2195291
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside 
a mortgage in November 1996. The policy was taken out by Mr R and Mrs R in joint 
names and they paid a monthly amount for it. Mr and Mrs R say Coventry Building Society 
(Coventry) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The PPI provided cover for accident sickness and unemployment. Mr and Mrs R, who are 
represented by a third party, say they were made to feel they had to have the PPI. They 
also say they didnt need it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs R disagree 
their complaint has been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The policy was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs R and Coventry. But from what 
Ive seen its more likely than not that there would have been a discussion about PPI 
before Mr and Mrs R decided to buy the cover. As I cant know exactly what was discussed 
with the advisor when they applied for the mortgage, Ive looked at the mortgage 
documents Coventry has provided. Ive also taken into account Mr and Mrs Rs comments 
and also what I know about these kinds of sales in general.
At the time they applied for their mortgage, Mr and Mrs R would have needed to specify 
whether nor not they wanted PPI on their mortgage application form. Whilst Coventry 
hasnt been able to gives us a copy of their actual form, Ive seen a sample of this section 
of the form. So Mr and Mrs R would have most likely realised at that point they didnt have 
to buy PPI cover if they didnt want it. 
Mr and Mrs R would also have needed to fill in a separate application if they wanted PPI. 
Again, Ive seen a sample. It would have been necessary for them to fill in their details on 
the form and to specify the level of cover they wanted. So I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs R discussed the option of PPI at the time and they then went on chose the 
cover which suited their circumstances best. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I think Coventry made it clear that Mr and Mrs R 
didnt have to take out the PPI but they decided to take it out  although I can easily 
understand why they cant remember this now.
Its also likely that Mr and Mrs R were given a policy document that would have explained 
how the PPI worked  Ive seen a sample copy of it. So I also think they would have had 
enough information on which to make an informed choice about the PPI being right for 
them.
It is of course possible that Coventry didnt do everything right or that Mr and Mrs R 
werent told everything they ought to have been. But from what Ive seen they took part in 
the PPI sale process and wanted this type of cover. Also, taking into account the 
evidence Ive seen  including further information Mrs R has given us about her 
employment  both Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.
Ive seen that both Mr and Mrs R were entitled to around six months of employer benefits if 
they werent able to work. So I think the PPI would have been a worthwhile benefit, paying 
out in addition to and for longer than their benefits. And being able to make a claim on the 
policy would have meant not having to dig into existing financial resources such as savings 
Its still possible the information Coventry gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. 
I also think that having the security of knowing that their mortgage repayments would still 
be manageable if one of them was unable to work and would be covered if neither of 
them were working - would have been important to them. So it looks like the policy would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong.
The policy cost £13.99 per month and provided cover of £300 for Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage payments. It also looks like the policy was affordable for them and in line with 
PPI policy premiums generally available that time. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
It follows that I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman