DRN-3059389
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold that PPI policy to her.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. Barclays subsequently offered to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs R paid with her premiums. Our adjudicator thought that offer was fair.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mrs R at the same time as she applied for her credit 
card online. So I think Mrs R would have been able to complete the application in her own 
time and at her own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Barclays made it clear 
Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI. I havent seen a screenshot of the precise information 
Mrs R completed at the point of sale. But Ive seen a screenshot Barclays provided 
indicating that Mrs R selected the cover. 
Mrs R said that the PPI was included as part of a package alongside her credit card. But I 
think its most likely Mrs R indicated she wanted a PPI policy. If it was presented as part of 
the credit card, I think shed have queried why she had to make a decision about whether 
she wanted it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information 
about the cover so she could decide if it was a good fit for her needs.
I accept its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for her. I can see Mrs R 
says she wouldnt have taken this policy out because she had a pre-existing medical 
condition sometime before the policy was taken out. She told us that shed broken her toes 
in around 1983, which was around 24 years before the cover was sold. The evidence Ive 
seen doesnt suggest this medical condition caused her to have any ongoing issues. So I 
cant reasonably say better information about the pre-existing medical exclusion would have 
caused her to act differently. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems. 
I havent seen anything that was unusual about Mrs Rs employment circumstances that 
would have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. From 
the information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. It would have covered her 
credit card repayments for up to a year if Mrs R became unwell or if she was made 
redundant. Mrs R didnt have any sick pay or any other means with which to pay her credit 
card if she was out of work. So I can see how the policy could have been helpful to her at 
what would have no doubt been a stressful time for her if she was out of work.  With all of 
this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mrs R would have declined the cover had Barclays given 
her more or better information about it. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think that she would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mrs R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mrs R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs R because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mrs R should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Mrs R about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthe low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs R wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs R paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs R 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Barclays had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Rs complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs R an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman