DRN-3703391
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint was initially about the administration of his pension after it was transferred 
from Legal and General to ReAssure Limited (RL) around August 2020. He alleged 
maladministration, by RL, of contributions to the pension and associated poor customer 
service, which led to his decision to transfer his pension away from RL and to Hargreaves 
Lansdown (HL). The present complaint is about RLs delay in completing the transfer to HL 
and about redress for Mr R.
What happened
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in this case on 11 August 2022, and both parties were 
invited to comment on it. The PDs main contents were as follows:
In terms of background, I mainly said  
Mr Rs pension transfer request was submitted to RL on 11 December 2020. The transfer 
was completed, with the funds arriving in Mr Rs HL Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), 
on Friday 5 February 2021. There is evidence of the SIPP being invested on Monday 8 
February 2021.
Mr R complained to RL and its response of 23 February 2021 conceded responsibility for the 
delay and apologised for it. RL confirmed that the transfer value that was used for the 
pension was that of 11 December 2020, when the transfer request was received, so there 
was/is no wrongdoing in that respect. It confirmed that a cheque for £100 was being sent to 
Mr R for the inconvenience he had been caused by his experiences with RL and that it would 
proceed to conduct a financial loss assessment  with regards to the delayed transfer and 
the effect that had on growth of the pension. 
Mr R referred his initial administration related complaint to this service in December 2020. In 
June 2021 we contacted RL about the new issue to address, in the form of the pension 
transfer delay and its effect on growth of the pension (because the pension was 
uninvested/in cash during the transfer). That led to the opening of the new/present 
complaint, as Mr R said he had not heard from RL about the loss assessment since its letter 
of February 2021.
I then summarised events that happened in the course of this services treatment of the 
complaint, including our investigators findings and conclusions on the case and including 
the following  
RL presented its loss assessment calculation to Mr R in July 2022, offering compensation of 
£2,141.79. RL says this amount was paid into his SIPP on 15 July 2022. He disagrees with 
the calculation and he has given the following main reasons:
He is not happy with the calculation start date (of 5 January 2021) used by RL, but he 
could compromise on that; however, RL has used an arbitrary calculation comparison 
date of 24 June 2022, which has no significance and which he does not accept.
Instead, the comparison should be made between the units he could have invested in 
on 5 January 2021 and those he invested in on 8 February 2021, and the difference 
arising from this (amounting to a value of £3,165.18) should be the base for 
compensation.
The effects upon subsequent investments in the SIPP (and associated 
income/dividends from some of them) are not reflected in the calculations.
Mr R also confirms that, to date, the compensation payment RL says was made into his 
SIPP has not been received.
I then made the following main provisional findings  
RL is responsible for the delayed transfer of Mr Rs pension to the HL SIPP and it has 
accepted this. For the sake of completeness, I consider that the balance of available 
evidence supports its responsibility for the delay. 
There is no dispute about the pensions transfer value, so that does not need to be 
addressed.
In terms of determining when the transfer should have been completed, I endorse and 
incorporate into this PD the investigators reference to the TRIG guidance and her finding 
that  based on that guidance, based on 10 working days being a reasonable time period for 
completing the transfer and with allowance for the bank holidays in December 2020  the 
transfer process for Mr Rs pension that was initiated on 11 December 2020 should have 
been completed by 29 December 2020. I also note that RLs recent loss assessment 
calculation accepts and incorporates the finding that the transfer should have been 
completed by 29 December 2020  before proceeding to set a start date at 5 January 2021.
I make the following additional provisional findings:
First, it could be helpful to summarise my remit. In this PD I will provisionally uphold 
the complaint and I will set out the orders that I intend to give RL to calculate and pay 
Mr R redress and compensation for trouble and inconvenience. If, upon consideration 
and treatment of comments on the PD, my Final Decision (FD) remains the same  
and if Mr R accepts the FD  RL will be legally bound by it. In it, I can also specify a 
time limit for payment, by RL, to Mr R and I can provide for interest to be calculated 
and added to the compensation if and where RL is late in paying the compensation. 
The expectation at first instance is that RL will comply, but Mr R should be aware (or 
be reminded) that, unlike in the courts, if that does not happen this service does not 
have a secondary set of powers for the practical enforcement of an FD. If a party 
needs to pursue such enforcement that is a separate and distinct matter that is 
beyond our powers. I have noted previous expressions from Mr R about the lack of 
accountability upon RL to address his complaint in a timely manner, so I consider it 
important to be clear about the remit I have summarised in this paragraph.
I have not seen cause for RL to have delayed its loss assessment calculation for    
Mr R since February 2021. I also note that despite its proposal of a cash settlement 
(unrelated to the actual loss assessment calculation) in September 2021 he had to 
wait for a further 10 months before the loss assessment was eventually presented to 
him. Overall and in total, he awaited the calculation for 17 months. This justifies a 
review of the award for trouble and inconvenience distinct from the previous 
payment(s) RL has made and above what the investigator proposed. For these 
reasons, I am satisfied that he should receive £500 for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him by this significant delay, which has clearly compounded the trouble 
and inconvenience he faced from the underlying delayed transfer matter. I have 
balanced my consideration with the fact that, to its credit, RL readily accepted 
responsibility for the delayed transfer  and with the possibility that the impact upon 
Mr R has probably been less than it would have been if RL had not conceded 
responsibility so promptly and if the resolution of liability had also been delayed. 
However, there is nevertheless a key impact upon him resulting from being deprived 
a conclusion to, and compensation for, his case for such a long time. As such, I 
conclude that it is fair for RL to pay him £500 for the trouble and inconvenience he 
has been caused. If I retain this finding in the FD, I will order RL to do this.
I am satisfied that redress to Mr R must be calculated (and paid) to treat the impact, 
caused by the delayed transfer, upon his HL SIPP and the investment of that SIPP. 
Given the passage of time, there is also a need to ensure the calculation (and any 
payment) is brought up to date. This, as I explain below, should cater for and address 
his points about loss of how the value lost in the deficit units would have performed, 
been reinvested (and subsequently performed) and, where relevant, produced 
income/dividends. In terms of redress for financial loss, and if I retain this finding in 
the FD, I will set out the following  
oMy aim will be to put Mr R as close as possible to the position he would now 
be in if RL did not cause a delay to the transfer. I consider that he would have 
behaved differently in terms of the timing of the SIPP investments, but the 
balance of evidence shows that he would have made the same post transfer 
investments that were eventually made in the SIPP. For this reason, his SIPP 
serves as the natural benchmark for calculating redress, from what I define 
below as the start date to the end date. I consider this a fair way to reflect 
how any compensatory amount arising at the former would have performed 
up to the latter. I will order RL to follow this approach and I will order Mr R to 
engage meaningfully and co-operatively with RL to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that it 
does not already have.
oFor the reasons addressed above, RL should have completed the transfer, up 
to receipt of funds in the HL SIPP, by 29 December 2020. Instead it was 
completed, up to receipt of funds, on Friday 5 February 2021. The SIPPs 
investments were made on the next working day (Monday 8 February 2021). 
On balance, I consider that, but for the delay, those investments would 
probably have been made earlier. I am mindful that they were made on the 
next working day after the delayed completion, so I have applied that to the 
date of 29 December 2020 (when the transfer should have been completed) 
and I have reached the same date of 30 December 2020 used by the 
investigator. This is the date on which, but for RLs delayed transfer, the 
SIPPs investments would probably have been made. Therefore, this will be 
the start date that RL will be ordered to use in calculating redress for Mr R.
oThe end date that RL will be ordered to use for the calculation will be the 
date of the FD. This is because the subject of redress (and, as I said above 
and explain further below, the relevant benchmark) is Mr Rs SIPP which has 
remained invested from the start date to the present date and, based on 
available evidence, will probably continue to be invested on the date of the 
FD. By using this end date, the redress calculation will reflect the 
performance that any compensation amount arising on the start date (C) 
would have had up to the FD.oBy using the SIPP as the redress benchmark, the calculation will reflect the 
performance of C consistently with the performance of the SIPP over the 
relevant period (including reflection of any changes within the SIPP that would 
have related to C and any performance and/or dividend and/or income in the 
same respect). On this basis, the calculation should and would treat C as 
though it has been a part of the SIPP throughout the redress period (between 
the start date and end date). RLs loss assessment calculation does not 
appear to cater for this. It seems to have limited itself to the 
value/performance of C (using a different start date) without reflecting what 
has happened in the SIPP over time  but instead based only on the value of 
the relevant units (for C) at the time of the calculation.
oI will order RL to calculate the total units Mr Rs SIPP invested in on 8 
February 2021 (A) and then calculate the total number of units, in the same 
funds and based on the same allocations of capital, that the SIPP could have 
purchased on 30 December 2020 (B) at the prices on that date. If A is the 
same as or greater than B, no compensation is due. If B is greater than A, 
compensation is due to Mr R. I will order RL to calculate the difference and to 
calculate the total monetary value of the difference based on the relevant 
funds units prices on the start date. This total monetary value is what I 
referred to as C above  that is, the compensation amount arising on the 
start date.
oI will then order RL to calculate the performance of C from the start date to 
the end date based on the SIPP benchmark, and to pay Mr R the concluding 
amount (that is, C +/- the relevant performance) as compensation for the 
financial loss he has incurred. I will order RL to make this payment within 28 
days of receiving notice of Mr Rs acceptance of the FD, and I will provide that 
if RL does not make the payment to him within this period it must pay him 
interest on the full compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of the FD up to the date the payment is settled/made to him. 
This provision will be to compensate him for any undue delay by RL in settling 
redress.
oI will also order that RL pay the compensation into Mr Rs SIPP, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest; that the 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief; 
that the compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into his SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; that if the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into his SIPP, it must be paid 
directly to him; that had it been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would have 
provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid; and 
that the notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to 
take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation).
oI will order RL to provide Mr R with a calculation of the compensation in a 
clear and simple format.
Mr R responded and accepted the PDs findings. He also updated us to say   having not 
been visible in my HL SIPP previously I can now see that a SIPP transfer of £2141.79 has been made and shows a settlement date of 26/07/2022. Assuming your Final Decision does 
not change and the calculated loss to transfer to my HL SIPP is greater than this (which I 
believe it will be), I appreciate that the amount owed would be offset by what has already 
now been transferred.
RL asked for additional time, beyond the deadline, to respond and it was granted such time. 
However, no response was thereafter received from it, up to the extended deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the case (including its contents) and the PD. Mr R accepts the PD and I 
have noted his update. RL has not submitted comments on the PD. In these circumstances, 
I do not find cause to change the findings of the PD  other than to reflect Mr Rs update  
so I endorse those findings and I incorporate them into the present decision. I uphold Mr Rs 
complaint for the reasons given in the PD and as quoted above. I will reflect his update in my 
orders (below) to RL for compensation (to him), but other than offsetting the payment he has 
received  as he acknowledges  my orders for compensation (to him) will be as I intended 
and expressed in the PD.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to the position he would now be in if RL did not 
cause a delay to the transfer. I consider that he would have behaved differently in terms of 
the timing of the SIPP investments, but the balance of evidence shows that he would have 
made the same post transfer investments that were eventually made in the SIPP. For this 
reason, his SIPP serves as the natural benchmark for calculating redress, from what I define 
below as the start date to the end date. I consider this a fair way to reflect how any 
compensatory amount arising at the former would have performed up to the latter. I order RL 
to follow this approach and I order Mr R to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with RL 
to provide it with all information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that 
it does not already have.
For the reasons addressed above, RL should have completed the transfer, up to receipt of 
funds in the HL SIPP, by 29 December 2020. Instead it was completed, up to receipt of 
funds, on Friday 5 February 2021. The SIPPs investments were made on the next working 
day (Monday 8 February 2021). On balance, I consider that, but for the delay, those 
investments would probably have been made earlier. I am mindful that they were made on 
the next working day after the delayed completion, so I have applied that to the date of 29 
December 2020 (when the transfer should have been completed) and I have reached the 
same date of 30 December 2020 used by the investigator. This is the date on which, but for 
RLs delayed transfer, the SIPPs investments would probably have been made. Therefore, 
this is the start date that RL is ordered to use in calculating redress for Mr R.
The end date that RL must use for the calculation is the date of this decision. This is 
because the subject of redress (and the relevant benchmark) is Mr Rs SIPP which has 
remained invested from the start date to the present date. By using this end date, the 
redress calculation will reflect the performance that any compensation amount arising on the 
start date (C) would have had up to the present.
By using the SIPP as the redress benchmark, the calculation will reflect the performance of 
C consistently with the performance of the SIPP over the relevant period (including reflection 
of any changes within the SIPP that would have related to C and any performance and/or dividend and/or income in the same respect). On this basis, the calculation will treat C as 
though it has been a part of the SIPP throughout the redress period (between the start date 
and end date). RLs loss assessment calculation does not appear to cater for this. It seems 
to have limited itself to the value/performance of C (using a different start date) without 
reflecting what has happened in the SIPP over time  but instead based only on the value of 
the relevant units (for C) at the time of the calculation.
I order RL to calculate the total units Mr Rs SIPP invested in on 8 February 2021 (A) and 
then calculate the total number of units, in the same funds and based on the same 
allocations of capital, that the SIPP could have purchased on 30 December 2020 (B) at the 
prices on this date. If A is the same as or greater than B, no compensation is due. If B is 
greater than A, compensation is due to Mr R. I order RL to calculate the difference and to 
calculate the total monetary value of the difference based on the relevant funds units prices 
on the start date. This total monetary value is what I referred to as C above  that is, the 
compensation amount arising on the start date.
I order RL to calculate the performance of C from the start date to the end date based on the 
SIPP benchmark, then to deduct from that result the payment of £2,141.79 that it recently 
made to Mr R (and that he says he received on 22 July 2022) and then to pay Mr R the 
concluding amount (that is, C +/- the relevant performance, minus £2,141.79) as 
compensation for the financial loss he has incurred. I order RL to make this payment within 
28 days of receiving notice of Mr Rs acceptance of this decision. If RL does not make the 
payment to him within this period it must pay him interest on the full compensation amount at 
the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this decision up to the date the payment is 
settled/made to him. This is to compensate him for any undue delay by RL in settling 
redress.
I order that RL pay the compensation into Mr Rs SIPP, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest; that the payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief; that the compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into 
his SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; that if the compensation 
(and any interest) cannot be paid into his SIPP, it must be paid directly to him; that had it 
been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income, so the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid; and that the notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age (for example, if he is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax and if he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation).
For the reasons given above and for the trouble and inconvenience he has been caused in 
the complaint matter, RL must pay Mr R £500. It must also provide him with a calculation of 
the compensation in a clear and simple format.Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept a final decision. In Mr Rs case, the complaint event occurred 
after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 
2020 (but before 1 April 2022), so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order ReAssure Limited to 
calculate and pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide him with a calculation 
of the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman