DRN-2394908
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with issues with his boiler 
under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B contacted Aviva because his boiler was leaking. When the engineer attended, he told 
Mr B that the boiler was beyond economic repair. The home emergency policy included a 
free replacement boiler. However, Mr B was told that it didnt include the cost of installation, 
which he would have to pay for. 
Aviva provided a quote to install the boiler and told Mr B that, to meet the latest regulations, 
his boiler would also need to be relocated, which would be an additional cost included in the 
quote. Mr B was also told that he would need to do some of the preparation work for the new 
boiler, including creating a hole in the ceiling, and would have to make good any damage to 
plastering and paintwork after the work was done. 
Mr B had the work done privately. The person who installed the boiler didnt need Mr B to do 
any preparatory work, didnt make a hole in the ceiling and didnt cause damage that then 
had to be made good.
Mr B complained to Aviva. Aviva replied and said that as Mr B had now had the boiler 
replaced himself that it would pay him £365, which is what Aviva would have paid for a 
similar size boiler, and £45 compensation for the number of times Mr B had to contact Aviva. 
It said that its surveyor had to inform Mr B of potential installation issues and that fixing the 
damage was Mr Bs responsibility. Aviva said that it didnt expect customers to be aware of 
rules and regulations, but its engineers would notify a customer if it affected them. It also 
confirmed that, when a policy was taken out, it didnt carry out a survey to check if the boiler 
might need to be relocated if it was replaced in the future.
Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
Aviva had acted reasonably in how it dealt with the issues with installing a new boiler and 
that she thought the amount offered for the new boiler and the compensation was fair in the 
circumstances.
As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 October 2020. In my provisional decision I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
According to the documents Ive seen, Mr Bs boiler was about 14 years old. This meant 
that, under the terms and conditions of the policy, although a replacement boiler would be 
provided free of charge, Mr B needed to pay for it to be installed. Mr B is concerned that he 
was asked to do additional work that then turned out to be unnecessary. As a result, he got 
another company to do the work and has argued that he lost out financially as a result.
Ive read the sales report that was completed by Aviva about installing the boiler, which 
Aviva has confirmed that Mr B wasnt given a copy of. In the customer obligations section it 
said:
please remove the ceiling above the new boiler location to facilitate the pipe works to 
connect through the hatch or we can remove it but wont be liable for any damage or 
replacing it back.
The sales report also listed several other items in the customer obligations section that Mr 
B was meant to do. This included clearing the area around the boiler, ensuring the side 
passage was accessible and providing a parking permit.
Ive looked at the quote document that Mr B was given. There was a section called What we 
need from you. This said Your surveyor may have agreed with you some actions that you 
need to undertake before the work can be carried out, these are detailed below. It then said 
No actions have been agreed.
Looking at Avivas records about this case, Mr B seemed to contact Aviva very promptly, and 
on multiple occasions, to say that he had been told that he would need to remove the ceiling 
himself but couldnt understand why this was the case. I havent seen any evidence that 
Aviva gave him a satisfactory answer to his questions. 
So, I can see that Mr B was told that part of the ceiling needed to be removed. But, I havent 
seen any evidence that it was made clear to Mr B that Aviva could do the work or why it was 
necessary. Im also aware that Mr B had no heating or hot water at a cold part of the year 
and, despite contacting Aviva on multiple occasions over a couple of weeks, didnt seem to 
be making any progress on getting his concerns resolved. Mr B therefore had to decide 
whether to get a boiler through Aviva, when he was unhappy about the work it said needed 
to be done, or using another company who would do all of the work and didnt need to take 
down part of the ceiling. So, I can see why Mr B didnt think Aviva was an option and instead 
got another company to do the work, as he urgently needed a working boiler. 
Im also aware that when Mr B got a different company to carry out the work, he said it didnt 
remove any of the ceiling. However, if Aviva thought that some of the ceiling needed to be 
removed for it to carry out the work and that there might then be some damage to fix 
afterwards, I think it was appropriate to tell Mr B this, so that he was aware. That another 
company didnt agree, doesnt necessarily make Avivas assessment wrong, it might just 
choose to carry out work in a different way. Nonetheless, I dont think that Aviva has 
provided a clear answer about why it thought the work needed to be carried out and whether 
it was actually necessary.
However, using a different company meant that Mr B then had to pay for the boiler himself. 
When Aviva responded to Mr Bs complaint, it gave him £365 towards the boiler and £45 in 
compensation. But, given the issues with the advice and quote that Mr B was given, I dont 
think this goes far enough. I think Mr B should be put back in the position he would have 
been had he used Aviva to supply and install the boiler. This was that he wouldnt have paid 
the cost of a like for like boiler. Looking at the cost of a boiler available under the policy if Mr 
B had paid for it, an average cost seems to be about £750. So, as Aviva has already paid Mr 
B £365, I think that it should pay him another £385 towards the cost of the boiler.
Im also aware that Mr B was concerned about some other issues. Mr B was unhappy that 
when he first took out the policy that he wasnt told that his boiler might need to be relocated 
if it was replaced. I think that Aviva needed to provide relevant information based on the 
situation at the time. I dont think Aviva had to go through every regulation that might 
possibly apply at some point in the future, including as some requirements might have changed by the time they became relevant. So I cant see that Aviva was wrong not to 
provide this information at that time.
Mr B also said that Aviva seemed to expect him to keep up to date on boiler regulations. But 
I havent seen anything that suggests to me that this was the case. Aviva explained the 
regulations that applied at the time that the boiler needed to be replaced and I think that was 
reasonable. 
Mr B was also concerned that Aviva named a range of different teams that he needed to call. 
Although I can understand that this was frustrating, we cant tell a business how it should 
operate and if it wants to operate in that way then it can do so. Mr B also complained about 
the length of the boiler warranty offered. As Mr B didnt get his boiler through Aviva, the 
boiler therefore isnt subject to whatever length warranty Aviva chose to provide. So, 
although I note that this was frustrating, Im not going to comment on this further.
So, looking at the full circumstances of this case, my current view is that I dont think Aviva 
provided Mr B with clear advice about what needed to be done about the ceiling before a 
new boiler could be installed or why it was necessary. I think that as a result of this, Mr B felt 
that he needed to get another company to install a new boiler. I think that Mr B lost out as a 
result of this and that he should be put back in the position that he would have been had 
Aviva carried out the work, which is that he wouldnt have had to pay for the cost of a boiler 
available under the terms of the policy.
As well as the cost of the boiler, Ive also thought about whether Aviva should pay Mr B 
compensation. Im aware that Aviva has already paid £45, but thinking about the full 
circumstances of the case, I currently think that it should pay Mr B £200 in total, which 
includes the £45 it has already paid him. So that is an additional £155. This takes into 
account that Mr B was without heating and hot water for some time while he tried, 
unsuccessfully, to get Aviva to explain why the additional work needed to be carried out.
Im therefore currently minded to uphold this complaint and to require Aviva to pay Mr B an 
additional £385 towards the cost of the boiler and an additional £155 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 26 November 2020.
Mr B replied and said he was satisfied that I had taken a pragmatic view of the 
inconvenience to his family and the additional cost of a replacement boiler. He also wanted 
to highlight that the additional cost of relocating the boiler was never explained when he 
renewed his policy. He said that if he had known this, he wouldnt have renewed the policy 
and saved the money towards a replacement boiler. Although the company that fitted the 
new boiler had to relocate it, Mr B thought it was reasonable and appropriate to assume that 
the insurer would inform him of this work before renewing the policy. If Aviva had inspected 
photos of his boiler, this would have meant he could have been advised of this. He thought I 
might have overlooked this.
Aviva replied and confirmed that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision.
Ive thought about the additional comments that Mr B provided. In my provisional decision, I 
referred to Mr Bs concerns about not being told his boiler might need to be relocated when 
he first took out the policy. I think similar considerations applied at renewal and that Aviva 
didnt need to explain every regulation that might possibly apply to Mr Bs boiler. In this 
instance, the need to relocate the boiler only became relevant because of the regulations 
that were in place at the time the boiler stopped working. I dont think it would be reasonable 
for me to have expected Aviva to inspect photos of Mr Bs boiler at each renewal and 
provide the relevant regulations for a range of scenarios that may or may not happen during 
the period of that policy. This wasnt a service provided under the policy terms and 
conditions, so I also cant see that Aviva said it would do this and failed to do so.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay Mr B an additional £385 towards the cost of the boiler and an 
additional £155 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the circumstances of this 
complaint. Aviva should also pay interest on the £385 from the date that Mr B paid the 
invoice to the date that Aviva refunds the money as Mr B lost use of this money for that 
period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. As a result, I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr B an additional £385 towards the cost of a boiler.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date that Mr B paid the invoice to have 
his boiler replaced to the date Aviva Insurance Limited pays the money.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr B an additional £155 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman