DRN-4151568
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments it didnt make.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that 
Mr M is liable for authorised payments and Revolut is liable for unauthorised 
payments.
To consider a payment authorised, the PSRs explain that Mr M must have given his 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction  and that consent must be in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between him and Revolut.
To establish the agreed form and procedure. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions 
that Revolut has referred us to. These dont set out in detail how Mr M consents to 
making payments using Apple Pay, which is the nature of the payments in dispute 
here. They simply say that Mr M can make payments using his Revolut Card. So Ive 
thought about what practical steps are needed to make these payments. It seems 
Mr M wouldve needed to use his Apple device and its associated biometrics with the 
merchant to make the payments.  
Here, its not disputed that it wasnt Mr M who used the Apple device to make these 
disputed payments with each merchant. Instead, its agreed fraudsters set up Apple 
Pay on their own device with Mr Ms card details. It follows that I dont think Mr M 
used the agreed form and procedure to consent to these payments.
Revolut argue that, regardless of the this, Mr M authorised these payments with 
apparent authority by sharing his card details and a one-time passcode. 
But Ive not been persuaded Mr M did share his card details. Instead, it seems the 
caller already had these, given Mr Ms consistent testimony they relayed information 
about them to establish the call was genuine. This is in keeping with many other 
scams our service sees. 
Considering Mr Ms card details were likely stolen, and that he was tricked into 
handing over the one-time passcode under the guise he was removing Apple Pay, I 
dont think he gave apparent authority. Because I dont think it would be reasonable 
to say these circumstances amount to Mr M giving permission for someone else to 
go through the steps to make these payments on his behalf. Afterall, hed didnt know 
payments were going to be made. 
It follows that I consider these disputed payments to be unauthorised. Revolut submit 
it still shouldnt be held liable under the PSRs because it thinks Mr M failed with gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep his personalised 
security details safe. 
Mr M acknowledged he shared a one-time passcode with the caller. Hes explained 
he did this because he believed he was genuinely talking with Revolut given the 
personal information they knew about him and the security procedures they took him 
thorough. And because hed been told that someone was attempting fraudulent 
transactions and the code would stop Apple Pay on a fraudulent device.  He added 
that the text message came through from Revolut when he thought he was speaking 
with them  so it all added up in the moment.
 Having considered the circumstances carefully  how Mr M was cleverly duped into 
believing he was talking with Revolut and the concerning situation they presented  I 
can see how Mr M shared the code. I dont think it meant he acted with very 
significant carelessness to conclude he was grossly negligence.
In saying this, Ive considered Revolut arguments about the content of the message: 
Revolut verification code for Apple Pay: XXXXXX. Never share it with anyone, ever. 
But in the circumstances  when Mr M trusted the caller and the message came 
through from Revolut when he expected  I can see how he simply focussed on the 
code hed need to share without dwelling on the warning at the end of the message. 
Particularly as he was likely worried and acting in the heat of the moment, given that 
hed been tricked into believing his money was at risk. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Revolut has shown Mr M failed with gross 
negligence. So I conclude he isnt liable for these disputed payments and Revolut 
needs to put things right  by refunding his losses from this unauthorised payments 
alongside interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
Revolut ought to have refunded this much sooner. Its failure to do so led Mr M to 
worry about the money lost and be inconvenienced in pursuing this. So, I agree with 
the investigators recommendation to also award £100 to reflect his non-financial 
losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Revolut Ltd must:
Pay Mr M the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded. I understand this to be £2,913.39.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £100 for Mr Ms distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman