DRN-1903035
The complaint
Mr O complains about delays in the service provided when he informed Swinton Group Ltd 
(Swinton) about an incident involving his vehicle.
What happened
Mr O contacted Swinton (the broker of his insurance policy) in October 2019 following an 
incident in which his vehicle was hit while parked. Swinton contacted Mr Os insurer to make 
it aware of the claim.
Mr O says hes unhappy he repeatedly had to call to chase for an update regarding 
progress, but was continually passed around to different departments  and was even told to 
call other businesses. He said his vehicle remained in storage for 18 days with no action 
taken. 
He says further delays were caused when he raised a complaint  and Swinton only 
contacted him towards the very end of the 8 week period it had in which to investigate the 
complaint. Mr O said when contacted, Swinton still did not know what his complaint was 
about and needed Mr O to clarify this.
Mr O has said delays caused by Swinton have impacted him severely, causing him financial 
loss as well as a considerable amount of stress.
Swinton has accepted it didnt provide a good level of service, saying it couldve made it 
clearer from the outset who was responsible for handling the claim. It offered Mr O £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Mr O was not satisfied with Swintons response, and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought the level of compensation Swinton 
had offered was fair. Mr O disagreed, so the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The incident occurred on 1 October 2019. Mr O contacted Swinton shortly after this and 
Swinton passed details of the claim to the insurer on 9 October. I dont consider this to be an 
unreasonable or excessive length of time. 
Swinton accepted it wasnt as clear as it shouldve been each time Mr O made contact, and 
its accepted that Mr O had to call more than shouldve been necessary, so it offered Mr O 
£100 compensation for poor customer service. Ive considered what level of compensation I 
think is fair, based on what happened and the impact this had on Mr O. And I think the 
compensation offered is fair.
I say this because, as Swinton brokered Mr Os motor insurance policy, its not the party 
thats ultimately responsible for handling claims. So I cant safely say from the information 
provided, that Swinton caused any unreasonable delays or that the impact the overall delays 
had on Mr O were a direct result of Swintons actions. It follows that I wont be telling 
Swinton to increase its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman