DRN-2691175
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave 
her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss S took three loans from Satsuma between February 2017 and October 2019. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Satsuma,
can be found below:
loan number loan amount received date repayment datenumber of 
repayments 
1 £500.00 01/02/2017 23/05/2017 3
2 £150.00 12/04/2018 23/01/2019 3
3 £100.00 07/10/2019 outstanding 12
Miss S has told us, in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the final loan has now 
been repaid. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ss complaint. She didnt think Satsuma were wrong
to approve Miss Ss loans because Satsumas checks went far enough and showed it that 
Miss S could afford the loans. 
It appears Satsuma agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Miss S disagreed with the assessment. Miss S highlighted that she had lots of other lending, 
she had been borrowing from a number of other short-term credit lenders at the time, and 
she was stuck in a cycle of borrowing. These points didnt change the adjudicators mind 
about the outcome she had reached. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
It may help if I start by saying that, given the time of each loan and the gaps between when 
each loan was repaid and when the next one was taken out, Ive considered Miss Ss 
lending relationship with Satsuma as three separate events. This means that there is no 
chain of lending. This is important because it effectively means that Satsuma could disregard 
the previous loan when thinking about each lending decision. 
For each loan Satsuma asked Miss S to declare her income, which she declared to be 
between £1,350 and £1,400. Satsuma also asked Miss S to declare her monthly outgoings. 
At which point, it then considered this information (and the result from the credit check) to 
assess the reasonableness of what it was told. It then, if it felt that was needed, made 
adjustments to the figures that Miss S gave by adding a buffer. For loan 1, Satsuma believed 
Miss S had £353 disposable income (after making the loan repayment), £206 for loan two 
and £321 for the third and final loan. 
Given each loan was the start of the new chain I think asking Miss S about her income and 
expenditure as well as carrying out a credit search was proportionate, and Satsumas checks 
went far enough. In addition to this, the checks Satsuma carried out indicated that Miss S 
would be in a position to afford the monthly repayments she was committed to making. So, I 
dont think Satsuma was wrong to have approved these loans. Ive also considered the credit check results that Satsuma has provided and while it was 
aware that there were some outstanding short term loans at the time of each application, I 
dont think this and the other information it saw was enough for either Satsuma to decline the 
applications outright or to have prompted it to have carried out further more in-depth checks. 
I appreciate that Miss S took significantly longer to repay loan two than the initially agreed 
term but given the gap in repaying loan two and taking loan three, I dont think Satsumas 
checks for the third loan needed to go further. In saying that, Ive thought about the amount 
lent, the term, the monthly repayment of around £17 and the results of the credit checks.
Overall, considering the level of lending and with the gaps in lending, I think the checks went 
far enough. And based on the checks Satsuma completed Im satisfied the lending wouldve 
seemed affordable and sustainable. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss S was struggling financially and repaying the final loan proved 
difficult. It seems it took Miss S may have taken much longer to repay the loan than 
scheduled. And I accept that Miss Ss full financial circumstances may not have been 
reflected in either the information she provided, or the other information Satsuma may have 
seen in its credit checks. And it might be that Miss Ss actual financial position (including the 
other lending she has said was outstanding) may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Satsuma knew about Miss S, that meant it needed to verify the information it was 
provided and gathered. So, I dont think that it could or should have known that Miss S was 
having financial difficulties at the time.
It is of course possible that, had Miss S continued to borrow from Satsuma without any gaps 
between loans, then it may have needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks 
which may have involved asking for evidence of her financial position. But considering 
Miss S took three loans with gaps between them and the loans appeared affordable, I dont 
think Satsuma was wrong to have provided them.
I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by the outcome that Ive reached, but I hope my 
explanation shows, why in this case, Im not in a position to uphold her complaint.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman