DRN-4404011
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited sent her annual annuity payment 
to her old, closed bank account despite, she says, having asked them in good time to make 
the payment to her new bank account. 
Mrs M says that she has limited monies and is reliant on the state pension, therefore Avivas 
delays have had a significant impact on her.
What happened
On 27 March 2023, Mrs M contacted Aviva, asking them to alter the bank account that her 
annual annuity payment was being paid into. Two days later, Mrs M completed and sent 
back Avivas payment authority form with her new banking arrangements on. 
After attempting to complete an online verification check of Mrs Ms new bank account, Aviva 
werent able to corroborate the details that shed submitted, so they wrote to her on 8 April 
2023, asking her to provide a copy of her new bank statement.
After not receiving her annual payment on 1 May 2023, Mrs M contacted Aviva the next day 
to understand why. Aviva explained that the payment had been made to her old bank 
account and as such, they would try and recall the payment and forward the monies to her. 
At the same time, Aviva asked Mrs M to send them a copy of her new bank statement, which 
she then emailed to them on 4 May 2023.
On 9 May 2023, Aviva wrote to Mrs M, explaining that they werent able to make the 
payment to her new bank account without first validating the details of the account. Aviva 
again asked Mrs M to send them a copy of a bank statement, showing the new sort code 
and account number, so their records could be updated. A week later, after speaking to 
Aviva again, Mrs M was advised that theyd updated her new bank details on to their system, 
but they still needed to understand how to recall the payment that had already been sent. 
They recommended that she speak to her old bank to see if they could help.
On 6 June 2023, Aviva wrote to Mrs M, explaining that theyd updated their records so any 
backdated and future payments would now be made into her new account. Two days later, 
Aviva wrote to Mrs M again, this time providing a breakdown of the payment that they had 
made on 1 May 2023, of £1,093.63 into her new account. However, Mrs M says that she 
never received that payment and despite her best efforts, hasnt been able to make any 
progress with Avivas customer care team.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs M decided to formally complain to Aviva. In summary, she said that 
she was frustrated that, despite telling Aviva of her new bank account details, she hadnt 
received her annuity payment nearly two months later. Mrs M had also spoken to her old 
bank but because she wasnt able to pass their security checks, they were unable to help 
her.
Mrs M also raised her concerns with this service before receiving Avivas response to her 
complaint. In summary, she said that she was unhappy that Aviva had sent her income 
payment to her old bank account, despite being advised of her new banking arrangements. 
She also explained that as a pensioner, shes reliant on those monies.
After reviewing Mrs Ms complaint, Aviva explained that they were sorry that Mrs M had had 
to chase them on a number of occasions and that they had sent incorrect information to her 
about the payment having been made into her new bank account. They went on to say that, 
having received her instructions to alter her bank account, despite not having validated her 
new account, they shouldnt have sent the annuity payment to her old bank. In addition, 
Aviva said that, as her old bank still had the monies and 10 days had now passed, they were 
unable to recall those funds and she should contact her old bank directly to resolve that. 
However, in recognition of the trouble that theyd caused, Aviva explained that they were 
paying Mrs M £250. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that Aviva 
hadnt treated Mrs M fairly and didnt think that it was fair for her to have to wait until the 
banking system eventually returned the incorrectly paid monies back to Aviva. She felt that 
Aviva should pay Mrs M the missing annuity monies and recover the funds themselves from 
her former bank.
Aviva, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said:
They werent told by Mrs M until 27 March 2023 that she had closed her bank account.
Had Mrs M responded to their request for a copy of her new bank statement from 8 April 
2023, they would have been able to update their systems in time for her to receive her 
payment on 1 May 2023.
As the payment was sent by BACs, the status, they say, is paid. In addition, theyve not 
seen proof that Mrs Ms former bank has sent the monies back to them.
Aviva went on to say that theyd already tried to recall the payment but without success.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Aviva had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. Aviva then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs M and Aviva, in order to reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, 
what's more likely than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint and Ill explain why below.
I can well imagine how distressing Mrs M must have found the experience of not receiving 
her income payment when she thought she would do. Shes told this service that as a pensioner, whos financially reliant on the state pension, the funds that she receives from 
Aviva are very much needed  more so than ever with the recent passing of her mother, 
when she wanted to use the monies to help cover some of her funeral costs.
It seems to me that its not disputed that Mrs M contacted Aviva well in advance of when 
they were due to make her annual annuity payment, where she asked them to update the 
bank account of where the payment was to be made to. And importantly, Aviva have also 
acknowledged that they received Mrs Ms completed payment authority form with her new 
bank details on, also well in advance of the annuity payment due date. Whilst it seems that 
Aviva were unable to update their system because they couldnt validate Mrs Ms new bank 
account, they still released her annual annuity payment knowing full well that they were 
doing so to an old, closed account.
So, whilst I dont doubt that Aviva needed to externally corroborate her new bank account 
details, by their own admission, they could have held her monies in suspense until such time 
as Mrs M had satisfied the necessary checks. Having looked closely at the timeline of 
events, it appears that, after requesting a copy of Mrs Ms new bank statement some 10 
days after receiving the completed payment authority form from her, Aviva then failed to 
follow this up with Mrs M until the annuity payment date had passed, by which point it was 
too late to rectify the issue.
Aviva have explained that theyve been unable to recall the annuity payment from Mrs Ms 
former bank, because of the time thats now elapsed since the monies were paid to them. 
They went on to explain that Mrs M should contact her former bank as they still held those 
funds and as such, they should be able to remit the monies to her. However, despite her 
best efforts, it seems that Mrs M has been unable, for a variety of reasons, to make any 
progress with her former bank in establishing where the monies now sit.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered whats fair in the circumstances and I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Mrs M to have to continue liaising in with her former bank to try and 
retrieve the annuity monies that Aviva shouldnt have sent to them in the first place. I say 
that, because our Investigator has already undertaken reasonable, detailed enquiries with 
Mrs Ms former bank, to try and retrieve those funds for her but without success, so its not 
clear how much longer Mrs M would have to wait for the funds to be found. 
Given that Aviva sent the annuity monies to an account that was closed four months earlier, 
Mrs Ms former bank will eventually send the funds back to them. However, I dont think its 
fair to expect a consumer in Mrs Ms circumstances to have to wait any longer for her 
income payment. Therefore, Aviva must make Mrs Ms annuity payment to her and recover 
the incorrectly remitted funds themselves from her former bank in due course.
Putting things right
Aviva must pay Mrs M her annuity income that fell due on 1 May 2023. As Mrs M has been 
deprived of those monies since the original payment date, Aviva must also add 8% simple 
interest to the payment from the date that the money should have been paid until settlement 
of the complaint.
Distress and inconvenience
Aviva should pay Mrs M £500 for the trouble that theyve caused her. Im satisfied that £500 
better reflects the inconvenience that Mrs M has suffered, because Aviva could have 
followed up Mrs Ms request sooner, they incorrectly stated that the monies had been paid to 
her new bank account and they couldve also engaged with Mrs Ms former bank earlier to try and put things right. Had they done, I suspect that this issue could have been resolved 
sooner. If Aviva have already paid Mrs M the £250 that they previously offered, this can be 
deducted from the £500.
Finally, Mrs M must make an undertaking to Aviva that, in the unlikely event of her former 
bank remitting the original 1 May 2023 annuity monies to her, she must repay them to Aviva.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and I require Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited to take 
the action that Ive set out above to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman