DRN-2572513
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a claim for 
water damage on her home insurance policy. She doesnt think shes been offered enough 
to put things right.
What happened
Mrs L noticed a loose tile in her bathroom. As she had contractors working for her at that 
time, she asked them to fix the problem. But when they removed the tile, they found the wall 
was damp. There mustve been a leak. So Mrs L contacted RSA to make a claim on her 
home insurance policy.
Mrs L says RSA wouldnt inspect the damage at first. So, while she was waiting for RSA to 
inspect, she arranged for her own contractor to provide a quote. Mrs L says it was only when 
she sent that quote to RSA that it arranged for a loss adjuster to assess the damage. He 
provided a detailed report, including a costed scope of works. RSA offered to settle the claim 
to the value of the scope of works. The offer was £3,400, less the policy excess of £350.
The quote obtained from Mrs Ls chosen contractors was for about £9,660. But the scope of 
that quote included items RSA said it wouldnt cover. It noted that plumbing repairs, except 
emergency repairs which may be insured under home emergency cover, arent covered 
under the policy. And that it wouldnt pay for floor tiles as the bathroom wasnt tiled before. 
There were other items on Mrs Ls contractors quote - a replacement bath and shower 
screen - which RSA said hadnt been water damaged.
Mrs L complained to RSA about the settlement, the delays to the process and the service 
shed received during the claims process. RSA upheld the part of her complaint relating to 
service and delays. It offered £175 compensation for the poor service. But RSA didnt uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint about the settlement. It said the maximum settlement it could consider 
was £3,400, given the required work. 
In June 2020, RSA increased its maximum settlement by 10% to £3,740. It said this was to 
help speed up cash settlements and had been introduced as a short-term measure due to 
the Covid 19 lockdown. 
Mrs L said the settlement offer wasnt enough. And she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that RSA had acted fairly when it made 
the settlement offer. And that the settlement offer looked to cover all the water damage. Mrs 
L didnt agree. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L is unhappy with the cash settlement offered by RSA. So Ive looked carefully at what 
happened and Mrs Ls policy to see if RSA has done anything wrong. 
Mrs L said she wanted to use her own contractor. She says shed chosen the contractors 
carefully for their quality and value. She didnt think they were expensive or out of line with 
the market. But she trusted them to do a good job.  
Mrs Ls policy terms and conditions say:
How we settle claims for Buildings
We will pay for the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing the damaged parts of
your buildings and agreed fees and related costs. The amount we will pay where repairs
are carried out will not exceed the lesser of:
 the cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor,
 the cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from your
nominated contractors.
So when a policyholder uses their own contractor RSA wont pay more than the amount it 
wouldve cost to do the repairs itself. So RSA needed to assess what the cost of that work 
would be. RSA arranged for a loss adjuster to look at the damage and decide what needed 
repairing or replacing. During the loss adjusters visit, Mrs L was offered a cash settlement to 
cover what he felt were the necessary repairs. 
Ive carefully reviewed the scope of works the loss adjuster produced and I cant see 
anything missing that I would expect to see given my understanding of the damage. So Im 
satisfied that RSAs position was to scope the work required to repair the damage caused by 
the leak and put Mrs L back into the same position shed been in before the leak. That is 
what Mrs Ls policy requires RSA to do.
I think that RSA acted fairly in offering to pay for the costs of repairing anything damaged. 
When Mrs L decided to use her own contractor Id expect RSA to offer a fair and reasonable 
settlement instead of carrying out the repairs itself. And I think thats what its done.
I realise that Mrs L has had to pay more than the settlement offered to restore her bathroom. 
But she had the choice of asking RSA to arrange for the repairs using its contractors or 
accepting a cash settlement to cover the cost of repair. 
By choosing to use her own contractors Mrs L had the opportunity to repair the bathroom 
however she wanted. But I wouldnt expect RSA to offer any more than the cost it estimated 
it could carry out the necessary repairs for. That wouldnt be fair or reasonable. I appreciate 
Mrs L didnt feel she could trust any contractors chosen by RSA to do the repairs. So she 
decided to use her own trusted contractors. But Ive seen no evidence that RSA had given 
her reasons to think its contractors couldnt do a good job. And RSA has noted that it 
guarantees any work its contractors complete for up to a 12-month period.
Mrs L also complained that she didnt receive good service during the claim. RSA 
acknowledged that Mrs L had experienced difficulties in providing the initial information. It 
said it couldve asked for more details during that initial call to identify the next steps that 
were needed to validate the claim. It offered £175 in compensation for the poor service. As 
this level of compensation is in line with what this service wouldve suggested, I wont be 
asking RSA to do any more. 
I know this isnt what Mrs L was hoping to hear. I know she feels strongly that her 
contractors were reasonable value and that RSA shouldve allowed her to use them to 
restore her bathroom after the escape of water incident. I also know shes had previous bad 
experience when contractors were chosen for her. But I cant hold RSA responsible for that. RSA is entitled to offer a cash settlement when a policyholder chooses to use their own 
contractors. And I cant see that its schedule of works missed any repairs needed after the 
leak. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman