DRN-4291587
The complaint
Mr A complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr A applied for a credit account with PayPal. It was agreed with a limit of 
£1,000. It was defaulted in January 2020.
Mr A complained. He said PayPal shouldnt have given him such a limit. He said he was 
under pressure from sub-prime lenders, already had unsecured debts of £25,000, and was 
living on his bank overdraft. (Later, he said he had £15,000 of debts as of October 2016). He 
said he had 11 or 12 credit cards at the time, and all were maxed out. He said his income 
was £1,800 per month and rent and household expenses were £1,000. Other costs were 
£200. But his monthly debt payments were over £1,000. So  he couldnt afford another 
credit account.
Between 2019 and 2021, he suffered from poor health and lost his job which made the 
situation worse. He said the account had been defaulted. He said the default should be 
removed and interest and charges refunded. 
PayPal said Mr A had declared his income and expenditure on the application form, and he 
passed PayPals credit checks. These included a review of his credit file and other debts. 
PayPal didnt uphold his complaint but paid £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said PayPal completed 
proportionate credit checks. Mr A had declared his income to be between £2,000 and £2,500 
per month, with monthly expenses of £500. Hed seen the credit searches done by PayPal, 
which showed a slightly below average credit score. But it didnt show he was over-indebted.
Our investigator asked for Mr As credit file. He said this showed he had five credit cards 
elsewhere at the time of the application. But there werent any defaults. Although Mr A says 
he had 11 other credit cards, that may have been because the credit  file only went back six 
years from January 2023. Mr A had provided his bank statements, but under the rules for 
what credit checks needed to be made, PayPal didnt need to ask for those, or see them. But 
he could see from the bank statements that Mr As income was lower - £1,300 each month, 
with expenses of about £900 on credit commitments and rent. So that still left a monthly 
disposable income of just over £400.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He argued his income was £1,340 per month. His living expenses were 
£433 (rent), plus other expenses of £700-800. He detailed seven credit cards with total 
minimum payments of £578 (although Mr A said £778), plus overdraft fees of £100. So  he 
said he could never have been able to afford the PayPal credit account. He asked that an 
ombudsman look at his complaint. And so it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr As unfortunate personal circumstances - he has suffered illnesses 
and lost several jobs as a result. 
In deciding whether a customer was provided with unaffordable credit or provided with credit 
irresponsibly, we need to understand:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a 
fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent completed, would reasonable and 
proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that the borrower was more 
likely than not unable to sustainably repay what they were being lent?
Was there a point where the lender ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing the borrowers indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Did the lender act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, these considerations must be borne in mind at the time of each of the increases in 
credit limit. The checks need to be more thorough the lower a customers income and the 
higher the amount to be repaid.
In this case, I think its reasonable to say that a limit of £1,000 can be considered low, and so 
the checks could be less than otherwise.
I can see that Mr A declared his income to be between £2,000 and £2,500 per month, with 
monthly expenses of £500. PayPal then checked Mr As overall situation by looking at his 
credit file, and they found no problems on the other agreements he had in place  they could 
see no defaults or late payments. PayPal could also see that Mr As credit score was just 
below average  but given the low limit of £1,000, I can see why PayPal agreed to lend the 
money to Mr A. 
I was concerned about what Mr A told us about his other debts. He said they were £25,000 
at the time, but later told us they totalled £15,000  still a lot. Mr A said he had another 11-12 
credit cards. If that were the case, we wouldve expected PayPal to have seen this and 
asked questions. So we asked Mr A for his credit file.
I looked at this  and it shows he had (in October 2016)  a bank overdraft (about £3,500 
debit); and two other credit cards, one with a limit of £3,400 and another with a limit of £500. 
I can see there were another five credit agreements which started between January 2017 
and April 2019.  There were also agreements with a debt collection agency  which also 
started after October 2016. But  it does appear as though a lot of new debt occurred after 
the agreement with PayPal. 
On the credit accounts I can see on Mr As credit file - they were all paid up to date, with no 
late payments or defaults  so as far as PayPal were concerned, they could see Mr A was 
paying his way.I know Mr A argues that he had other credit cards and debts  but I can only make a 
decision based on the evidence I can see. And that shows what Ive said it does. And it also 
agrees with what PayPal told us they saw at the time.
Mr A has also argued his income was less than he declared to PayPal, and his expenses 
were higher. But PayPal have told us that these figures were declared by Mr A. So  I cant 
hold them responsible if the information wasnt accurate. Mr A has also shown us his bank 
statements which he said shows he was making payments to some other credit cards. But 
having thought about that  we would only expect a firm to ask for, and look at, bank 
statements if there was a reason to do so  for example, if the credit searches showed up 
some issues, significant other debts, or defaults. And in this case - PayPals information 
didnt. 
I know Mr A has gone through a difficult time, and Im sorry he has. But based on the 
information I have seen and considered; I am not asking PayPal to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman