DRN-3669205
The complaint
Mr B complains that his insurance broker, Guildhall Brokers & Consultants Limited (GBC), 
didnt tell him about a change of underwriter for his home insurance policy and that cover 
hed paid for wasn't provided.
What happened
Mr B bought home insurance using his broker, GBC, including cover for detached garages 
located at a different address to his home. He claimed under his policy for an incident of 
accidental damage to one of the garages. The underwriter declined the claim because it said 
there was no cover for the garages on the policy.
Mr B complained to GBC about the missing cover and its failure to tell him the underwriter 
had changed. GBC believed the garages were insured under the policy and said it had 
informed Mr B of the change of underwriter. However, GBC explained that the garages had 
never been covered for accidental damage, so the claim wouldnt have succeeded anyway.
Nevertheless, GBC offered Mr B a payment of £400, which was roughly the cost of the 
garage cover for four years. Mr B wasn't happy with the offer and GBC increased it to £800. 
Mr B still didnt think it was enough, and he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said GBC had arranged the policies each 
year based on the insurers confirmation that they were offered using the same information 
as in previous years. Further, our investigator noted that GBC had told Mr B about the 
change in underwriter and he agreed it was unlikely that the claim [would] have succeeded. 
Therefore, he felt that GBC hadnt caused any detriment and its offer was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He asked for £1,600, and repeated his complaint about his garages not 
being covered.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2022 explaining that I was minded not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
I think GBCs offer was fair in the circumstances, but for different reasons to our investigator. 
Because of this, I think its reasonable for both parties to have a further opportunity to 
comment. Ill explain.
Firstly, I think its important to set out in more detail what happened over the years because 
it helps explain how I reached my decision. Having analysed each of Mr Bs policies, Ive 
prepared the following summary.
For many years, Mr B bought buildings insurance using his broker, GBC. The policies were 
arranged between GBC and an intermediary, which Ill call company B, and underwritten by 
various insurers.
To begin with, Mr B had cover for his house which included detached garages not located at 
the same risk address. In 2013, the existing insurer decided not to cover the garages and 
refunded Mr Bs premium.
GBC arranged cover with a different insurer, which Ill call company R, via the intermediary 
(company B). The policy schedule confirmed that there was accidental damage cover for the 
house, but the garages were listed separately on a standard cover  that is, excluding 
accidental damage. This cover renewed and remained in place for three years.
In 2016, GBC confirmed that the insurer changed (Ill call this insurer company L), but the 
level of cover remained as before. That is, the garages had standard cover for damage 
caused by fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake or aircraft (FLEA) only.
In 2017, the policy renewed with company L but there was no mention in the policy 
documents at all about the garages. Under the risk address, the policy referenced only the 
house address, covered for accidental damage as before.
The policy continued to renew each year with the same insurer, company L, until the incident 
in 2021, although the intermediary changed (from company B to company M) in 2019.
Having set out the above, my role is to decide whether GBC did anything wrong in its actions 
as Mr Bs broker when securing insurance for him, which then caused Mr B loss when he 
made his claim.
Accidental Damage
I havent seen any evidence in Mr Bs policy history to show he had accidental damage 
cover for his garages. Looking at the policies where cover for the garages was specified, it 
was only available for limited perils, excluding accidental damage. This was made clear in 
the policy documents, so I cant reasonably say Mr B couldve expected he had accidental 
damage cover. 
Based on this evidence, its fair to conclude that it was unlikely Mr Bs claim for accidental 
damage to one of those garages wouldve succeeded even if cover for the garages 
continued as before. Theres no evidence that GBC caused him to think he had accidental 
damage cover, so its reasonable to say GBC didnt cause Mr B any loss in respect of his 
ability to claim.
Underwriter
Mr B complained that GBC didnt tell him about the change in underwriter. Looking at the 
renewal documents and statement of facts, I see that GBC confirmed the change. As Mr B 
signed those documents, Im satisfied GBC communicated the change to him. Im satisfied 
that GBC did nothing wrong here.Did Mr B pay for cover?
Mr B complained that hed paid for cover he didnt have. GBC didnt agree and said the 
premium included cover for the garages. Although Ive already said GBC might not have 
caused Mr B any loss, that doesnt mean I think its treated him fairly overall.
From 2013 to 2017, Mr Bs policies clearly showed he was insured for the garages under a 
standard level of cover (FLEA). When Mr B made his complaint, GBC relied on the following 
to explain why it didnt think the level of cover had changed:
The premiums increased in line with what wouldve been expected if the garages 
were still covered, and
The intermediary stated in its renewal offer, The renewal has been calculated on the 
information currently held by our systems.
On the face of it, I can understand why GBC mightve relied on this information to support its 
position. But it seems that was only something it considered after Mr B made his complaint, 
rather than at annual renewal. 
From the 2017 renewal and onwards, there was no mention of the garages at all in the policy 
documents. So, Ive considered the renewal documents to see whether GBC could 
reasonably have noted that the garages were no longer covered despite its assumptions 
above. Im satisfied that it could for the following reasons:
 
The statement of fact questions returned by Mr B at renewal show a handwritten note 
under the risk address adding that it should include the garages. I havent seen any 
evidence that GBC looked into this or addressed it with the administrator at the time.
While GBC says it relied on the intermediary saying it took into consideration all 
previous information, the intermediary made it clear to GBC that, In order to secure 
insurance cover that is appropriate for your clients [sic] needs, you must ensure that 
they comply with disclosure requirements appropriate to the applicable law of the 
policy and possibly the terms of the insurance cover being aranged [sic]. This shows 
GBC had a duty to Mr B to ensure the accuracy of information, so it would be 
reasonable to say it shouldve checked the cover offered.
Further, GBCs own file front sheet, showing a tick-box list of tasks to be completed 
at each renewal, states, Check docs against instruction/proposal/wants & needs. 
GBC ticked this as completed, yet Mr B had made it clear that he wanted his garages 
included on cover and there was no evidence in the policy renewal documents that it 
was.
GBC provided a copy of its file note which explained Mr B was considered a 
vulnerable client and it needed to ensure he fully understood everything. I cant fairly 
say GBC did that given it hadnt sought clarity as Ive shown here.
GBC added the garages as a separate item on Mr Bs invoice, yet the garages 
werent listed anywhere on the policy documents. This suggests GBC assumed cover 
was available without confirming it against policy documents because, otherwise, it 
wouldve noted that the garages werent listed separately. Its difficult to see how 
GBC could itemise the garages and house separately on its invoice when the policy 
documents didnt reflect that level of detail.Having considered these points, while the evidence doesnt show Mr B paid for cover for his 
garages which wasnt provided -  the policy didnt show a premium for that cover - the 
evidence does suggest that GBC didnt take care to ensure that the cover Mr B wanted was 
provided by the underwriter, via the intermediary. So, I cant say that GBC treated Mr B 
fairly.
Overall, it seems cover stopped for Mr Bs garages from 2017. While theres no evidence he 
paid for cover, I can see why he thought it was still available to him. And as Ive shown here, 
the evidence suggests GBC failed to ensure that cover continued despite there being 
sufficient information in the policy documents to indicate it had stopped.
In the circumstances, Ive thought about what I wouldve required from GBC to put matters 
right. Thered be no premiums to repay because theres no evidence he paid for cover he 
didnt have. And, as Ive already said, any claim would likely have been declined because Mr 
B never had accidental damage cover. I think that was always clear.
Even so, GBC has already offered Mr B £800, which is essentially a refund of what it 
believed the garage premiums to be for the four years he didnt have it, along with 
compensation to settle the complaint. I agree that four years is the time when cover cant be 
assumed, but as theres no evidence it was paid for either, I wouldnt have asked GBC to 
make that payment. But, given the fact that GBC hadnt handled Mr Bs policy renewals as 
well as it mightve done, I think its additional offer, bringing the total to £800 is fair. 
I know Mr B wanted £1,600 compensation. I havent seen anything which persuades me to 
require that amount. Thats because I havent identified any direct loss caused by GBCs 
actions.
In summary, Im minded not to uphold Mr Bs complaint because I havent seen any 
evidence that he paid for cover he didnt have or that GBC failed to tell him about the change 
in underwriter. Im satisfied GBC has done enough to compensate him for the shortfalls in 
handling his policy renewals.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
GBC didnt make any further comment.
Mr B responded to say he was unhappy with the provisional decision and he felt it contained 
inaccuracies. Ill address his comments below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mr B said he didnt receive a refund from his previous insurer of the premium paid for 
his garages in 2013. He asked for evidence. I provided the information in my provisional 
decision simply as background, so whether or not he received a refund doesnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint. Nevertheless, I can confirm the information was given in an email 
from GBC, dated 23 October 2013, having received confirmation from Mr Bs previous 
insurer that it would no longer offer cover for the garages. As this information doesnt make a 
material difference to my decision, I see no reason to comment further on this point.Mr B said four years of cover for his garages amounted to more than £400, so my 
calculations were incorrect. To be clear, that was the basis GBCs offer. Going back to the 
point I made in my provisional decision, I didnt see any evidence that Mr B paid for cover he 
didnt have, so there was no premium to refund anyway. Whether or not £400 represented 
four years of cover is irrelevant, because Mr B hadnt actually paid for garage cover. 
Mr B commented on the contradictory information in his documents, and he asked again for 
GBC to pay significantly more than it already has. Ive agreed that GBC shouldve picked up 
on the differences in the information within the policies, specifically whether the policy 
included cover for the garages. Its for that reason I think it was fair for GBC to pay £800.  
However, I think its worth repeating, here, the first point I made in my provisional decision. 
The underwriter declined Mr Bs claim because he didnt have cover at all for his garages. 
But, even if cover had continued to include his garages as before, Mr B still wouldnt have 
been able to claim because his policy never included cover for accidental damage to his 
garages. Therefore, Im satisfied that GBC didnt cause Mr B any loss in respect of this 
claim.
Overall, having considered Mr Bs further comments, I see no reason to change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman