DRN-2896016
The complaint
Ms D complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms D was given a loan by TFS in November 2014. She borrowed £7,000 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 60 monthly instalments.
Ms Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
results of TFSs checks should have led the lender to conclude that Ms D was most likely 
facing problems managing her money. So she didnt think the loan should have been agreed 
and she asked TFS to pay Ms D some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Ms D accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Ms Ds complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Ms D required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms D. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Ms D undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Ms D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Ms D.
TFS gathered some information from Ms D before it agreed the loan. It asked her for details 
of her income, and her normal expenditure, and used copies of her bank statements and 
payslips so it could verify what shed said about her income. And TFS checked Ms Ds credit 
file to see how much she was paying to other creditors, and how she had managed credit in 
the past.
Ms D was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. She would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Ms Ds financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
Ms Ds income was limited, and around a third of her income was made up of tax credits. So 
even a small difference in either the income or expenditure shed declared could have made 
it unlikely that shed be able to afford her repayments. So I think TFS should have been on 
notice that it needed to take great care when assessing Ms Ds loan application.
TFSs credit check showed that Ms D hadnt managed credit well in the past. The credit 
check showed at least three defaulted accounts. And a County Court Judgement had been 
issued against Ms D just four months earlier. In total the credit check showed that Ms D had 
delinquent debts amounting to almost three times her declared monthly income. More 
recently her credit card was showing a missed payment, and that it was more than 50% 
above the agreed credit limit.
Ms D told TFS that she wanted to use the loan to consolidate some other debts, as well as 
helping towards the costs of Christmas. One of the debts that Ms D said she wanted to 
consolidate was a loan from a family member for £1,800. Obviously that borrowing wouldnt 
show on a credit check, and I think it should have caused TFS to consider the possibility that 
Ms D might also be liable for some other similar informal debts.I think the recent proximity of both a defaulted account and a CCJ should have led TFS to 
conclude that it was unlikely that Ms Ds finances were in a stable position. Looking at her 
bank statements it could see that she had very little money left over  and in the week before 
the loan was agreed she received a charge for an unpaid item. I can also see that Ms D took 
a payday loan at the end of September. That loan doesnt appear to have been repaid, nor 
does it appear on TFSs credit check.
On balance I think the results of TFSs checks paint a picture of a consumer that has 
previously struggled to manage their money  and is still facing those problems at the time of 
her application. I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to conclude that it was likely that 
Ms D would be able to repay any additional borrowing (even after considering part of the 
loan was being used to refinance some existing debts) in a sustainable manner. So I dont 
think TFS should have agreed to lend to Ms D and needs to pay her some compensation. 
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Ms D in November 2014. So TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Ms D paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman