DRN-2754600
The complaint
Mr R complains about how he was treated when he experienced financial difficulty with his 
mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage on repayment terms with Halifax. From about 2013, he began to 
experience ill health and also lost his job, and the mortgage began to fall into arrears.
By 2016, Mr R had found another job. But he wasnt able to keep up with the mortgage 
payments, and for several years he paid only the interest element  not the capital 
repayment element  of the monthly payments. There was no formal agreement with Halifax 
that he could do so.
As a result, even though Mr R was making payments each month, the arrears continued to 
increase and by 2019 were over £30,000.
Halifax took legal action, which came to court in early 2020. Mr R managed to make a lump 
sum payment of £20,000 and put the property on the market. The property sold and the 
mortgage was redeemed in September 2020.
Mr R complained to Halifax about his mortgage several times over the years of his financial 
difficulty. He complained that he wasnt being treated fairly  and, in particular, that Halifax 
wasnt helping him as he thought it should. He asked several times for the interest rate in his 
mortgage to be reduced, but Halifax refused. 
Mr R said that he was able to pay the interest each month, so the balance wasnt increasing. 
And it would be fairer to allow him to continue to do that and repay the capital at the end of 
the term  rather than forcing him to sell the property now.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr R asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr R has had over the years; Im sure its been an 
upsetting time for him and his family, culminating in them having to sell their home.
And when, as in this case, a borrower is facing financial difficulties, a mortgage lender has 
obligations to treat them fairly and try to help get the mortgage back on track. Taking 
repossession proceedings should be a last resort if that doesnt prove possible.
There are two significant elements to Mr Rs complaint  that Halifax didnt reduce his 
interest rate, and that it took legal action rather than allowing him to continue to pay only the 
interest due each month.
Mr R had been experiencing financial difficulties for several years. To start with, he had 
missed several payments altogether and was only able to make small payments in other 
months. The arrears therefore grew quite substantially.
In more recent times, Mr R has returned to work  though his income is lower than it was 
before. He was able to pay the interest due each month, though not any element of the 
capital repayments, and had been doing so for some time when Halifax decided to take legal 
action.
Its important to note that this is a repayment mortgage. The terms of the contract require Mr 
R to pay not just the interest but a portion of the capital each month  so that, by the end of 
the term, the debt is paid off entirely.
By only paying the interest each month, Mr R was in effect treating his mortgage like an 
interest only mortgage.
There are strict rules about mortgage lending, which were tightened up in 2014  including to 
reduce interest only lending.
The rules say that a lender should consider accepting interest only payments as a temporary 
concession to help a borrower through a period of financial difficulty. But that can only be 
temporary.
To convert a mortgage to interest only for the rest of the term, which Mr R wanted in this 
case, is more difficult. The rules say that a mortgage can only be converted to interest only 
terms if the borrower has an acceptable strategy for repaying the capital  and sale of the 
property is not generally an acceptable strategy. A lender can set aside the requirement for 
an acceptable repayment strategy  but only where the change would otherwise be clearly in 
the borrowers best interests.
Mr R says  he hasnt put it in quite these terms, but its the thrust of his argument  that it 
must be in his best interests to make the change. He couldnt afford mortgage on repayment 
terms, but he could afford to keep paying the interest. He knew that meant he would have to 
sell the property at some point to repay the capital. But why not allow him to do that in nine 
years time, at the end of the term  which would be much less disruptive to his family.
I do see his point. But I dont think its quite so clear that converting the mortgage to interest 
only terms  or treating it as such for the rest of the term  would be in his best interests. Its 
clear from his discussions with Halifax that he was facing significant financial difficulties. He 
was in arrangements with his other creditors and things like an unexpected car repair bill 
caused significant problems. His income and expenditure was strained, and there was no 
room to pay any more.
And this means that there was a very real risk that even just paying the interest wouldnt 
have been sustainable until the end of the term. If interest rates increased, or Mr Rs other 
expenditure went up, his ability to afford even the interest charged each month would 
reduce.
And with any missed payments, the balance would go up  and so would the interest 
charged thereafter. There was a real risk that even paying only the interest wouldnt be 
sustainable.And while Mr R was left with significant equity when he sold the property in 2020, the same 
might not be true of any sale at the end of the mortgage term. The balance might have gone 
up through missed payments. House prices might fall generally. Or the value of this property 
might fall if Mr R doesnt have the funds to maintain it. 
There would therefore have been lots of risks in allowing Mr R to continue to pay just the 
interest until the end of the term. And its also true that this was a repayment mortgage, and 
that was what Mr R had agreed to when he took it out.
Halifax had allowed Mr R several years to try and get things back on track before it took 
legal action. But he hadnt been able to do so. There were lots of risks in paying only the 
interest, and the arrears were still increasing. Mr Rs finances showed no sign of improving 
enough to allow him to return to making the full monthly payments due. In all the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unfair that Halifax decided that the time had come to take 
legal action, or that it was unfair not to allow Mr R to continue paying just the interest.
Mr R also complains about the interest rate he was charged. He was paying the standard 
variable rate, as his previous fixed rate had come to an end. Halifax refused Mr R a new 
rate.
Halifax has eligibility criteria for new interest rates, one of which is that the mortgage 
shouldnt be in arrears. A fixed rate comes with an early repayment charge  which can be 
substantial  if the mortgage it ended during the fixed rate period. And when a mortgage is in 
arrears, theres a risk that the property will need to be sold, with an ERC being charged. 
Indeed, if Halifax had given Mr R a fixed rate, he would have paid an ERC of at least 2% of 
the mortgage balance when he sold the property in 2020.
A fixed rate does have the benefit of reducing the interest rate, and thus the monthly 
payments. So even where a borrower is in arrears it may sometimes be appropriate to offer 
a new rate  where, for example, a new rate makes the difference between the mortgage 
being affordable and unaffordable, it might be a fair form of forbearance. But that wouldnt 
have been the case here. Ive explained why I dont think converting to interest only for the 
rest of the term would have been the right way forward. And the reduced monthly payments 
on a lower interest rate on repayment terms would still have been significantly more than Mr 
R was able to pay  so wouldnt have made the mortgage affordable. 
That means a new interest rate wouldnt have been a form of forbearance that made the 
difference in this case. And so it wasnt unfair that Halifax didnt make an exception to its 
general policy not to offer a rate during arrears in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman