DRN-3239884
The complaint
Miss M complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have held her liable for an accident following a 
claim under her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy her premiums have increased 
following the accident, and that AXA didnt tell her shed be liable for storage costs.
What happened
In April 2021 Miss M was in the process of turning right into a side road when an emergency 
vehicle with its emergency sirens on collided with her. Miss M said the emergency vehicle 
was in the wrong as she was already turning right.
After the accident, Miss M asked for her car to be taken to a garage of her choosing, rather 
than one AXA would have taken it to.
Around two weeks later, Miss Ms car had been deemed to be a total loss, and she accepted 
the offer from AXA to settle that element of her claim  while keeping her car. She went to 
get her car from the garage, and they charged her £948  made up of a recovery charge, 
storage costs and an administration fee. 
AXA subsequently held Miss M liable for the accident, saying shed failed to make 
satisfactory observations before performing a manoeuvre and pulled into the path of another 
vehicle who can successfully argue their right of way being higher than ours as they are a 
service vehicle on a call. AXA went on to say as the vehicle was there to be seen, this 
would mean a fault claim on Miss Ms policy.
Following this, she raised a complaint about the liability decision, having to pay her excess 
as a result of that decision, recovery, storage and admin costs as shed had to pay them and 
didnt expect to, along with the cost of her premiums as theyd increased.
During this process AXA had already said the recovery costs, plus VAT charged on that 
element, had been refunded. And, in their complaint response, said they wouldnt refund any 
storage or admin fees as Miss M went with a non-approved repairer  and they cant be held 
responsible for the other partys costs. As for the liability decision, they said they can settle 
claims how they see fit, and theyd decided to hold her liable. Overall, they didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Unhappy with this Miss M asked us to look into things. She said she was never told shed 
have to pay the storage costs because shed used her own garage. She said her car was 
very expensive, and she wanted to use that specific garage to get the work done to an 
appropriate standard, and not invalidate a paintwork guarantee. She also reiterated her 
concerns regarding how the emergency vehicle was in the wrong.
One of our Investigators decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint and felt AXA had handled 
things fairly. 
Miss M didnt agree, saying she wanted someone else to look at things, and questioning why 
she wasnt offered free storage at another place. So, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability
I think its important to explain up front I cant decide if Miss M or the emergency vehicle was 
at fault  only a court can decide that. Instead, what I can do is look at whether AXA have 
reached the decision to hold Miss M at fault fairly.
The policy terms say AXA:
have the right to take over and deal with the defence or settlement of any claim in the name 
of the person making a claim under this policy.
So, AXA are allowed to decide how to settle matters  as they have  in line with their policy 
terms. 
In thinking about how theyve come to this decision, I can see they were sent a report from 
the emergency services involved  which said the vehicle was answering an emergency call, 
had their full emergency equipment in operation, and precedence has to be provided to 
emergency vehicles by the general public.
I cant know if the driver of the emergency vehicle wasnt driving safely, as Miss M has 
suggested  but taking into account the above I dont think AXA have decided to hold Miss M 
liable unfairly. Theres nothing I can see thats been provided to show this decision would 
clearly be wrong.
As a consequence of that, any excess required under the policy terms would become 
payable by Miss M  as theres no other insurance company to reclaim that payment from.
Storage and administration costs
Miss M has said on several occasions she wasnt told about the storage costs not being 
covered. But I also cant see her asking about them.
Our Investigator questioned AXA about this, asking how theyd made it clear that by 
choosing a non-approved repairer Miss M wouldnt be covered for storage costs. Their 
response is to say they didnt know Miss M would be incurring storage costs  but had 
discussed costs regarding a courtesy car which they said they wouldnt cover her for.
Ive thought carefully about this, and Im persuaded by AXAs response. I say that because 
Ive listened to the call Miss M had with AXA on 26 April 2021  theres no mention on this 
call of any storage costs she might be incurring. Id perhaps expect if a cost is going to be 
charged by a company, that company tells the individual about it. I dont know what, if 
anything, was said by the garage to Miss M about this, but I can say Ive seen nothing to 
suggest she discussed this with AXA  both in the call Ive listened to, or in any of the notes.
While I note her point AXA never told her they wouldnt pay this, they did at one point tell her 
they wouldnt pay for any courtesy car costs shed incurred at that point. So, in knowing that, 
if Miss M knew she was being charged storage costs, she could have asked about that. As shed seemingly not told them about storage costs, I cant fairly say AXA could or should 
have asked about something they didnt know Miss M was incurring.
AXA refunded Miss M the recovery charges her chosen garage had billed her for. I think 
thats fair in all the circumstances to resolve this element of her complaint.
Premium costs
Miss M has also talked about her premiums increasing by £200 as a result of the accident.
I thought it might be helpful to provide some general information on this point. The way 
insurers calculate premiums is made up of a large number of factors based on the risk the 
policyholder presents  some of the more common are claims history, no claims discount, 
type of car and so on. All of these factors can, to one degree or another, affect the amount of 
premiums being charged.
Miss Ms claim has ultimately been deemed a fault incident. As Ive noted above, I think AXA 
have reached that decision fairly. Insurers will almost always ask if someone has had a claim 
in the last five years or so and may ask how that claim was settled. Theyll take this into 
account when deciding what risk they think the policyholder presents  and theyll calculate 
the premium based on that overall risk. Any claim could affect the cost of premiums, but her 
premiums could have increased due to a number of other factors. Miss M for example has 
chosen to keep her car, and have it repaired. Some insurers might decide that increases the 
risk, meaning theyll charge her more.
Its unclear if Miss Ms premium increase is something AXA have charged, or another 
insurer. But, if she thinks its been calculated incorrectly, unfairly or otherwise wants to  she 
can raise a new complaint to the relevant insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman