DRN-3038329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt treat them fairly when they 
applied to port their mortgage. They ask for an explanation, an apology and compensation 
for their costs. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an interest only mortgage with Accord taken out in 2012. They contacted 
Accord in September 2020 to apply to port their mortgage. They wanted to move to a 
cheaper property and use some of the equity from the sale to buy a second property. 
Accord declined their porting application. Mr and Mrs S say they were given inconsistent 
information about this, with the result they were committed to their sale but didnt have a 
mortgage in place to buy the property they wanted. They paid an ERC of about £12,000, 
£450 for a valuation and legal fees. They say theyll incur two lots of moving costs as they 
are currently in rented accommodation. 
Our investigator said it was Mr and Mrs Ss choice to agree the sale of their property and 
incur legal fees before having a mortgage offer. And the ERC was correctly applied when 
they repaid the mortgage. The investigator didnt recommend that Accord refund the ERC or 
compensate Mr and Mrs S for their legal fees, rent or moving costs. 
Our investigator said it was unfair for Accord to instruct a valuation when its underwriter had 
concerns about Mr and Mrs Ss repayment strategy. She said it should refund the valuation 
fee with 8% interest. She said the £200 compensation offered by Accord for poor service 
was fair.
Accord didnt agree, saying the valuation is an essential part of the mortgage application 
process. It says its usual process is to instruct a valuation as soon as it begins to process 
the application. Accord said it gave Mr and Mrs S an opportunity to confirm they had an 
acceptable repayment strategy, but they failed to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S contacted Accord in early September. He said theyd accepted an offer for their 
property and had an offer accepted on the property they wanted to buy. Mr and Mrs S met 
with Accords mortgage adviser on 10 September 2020. They were told theyd be able to 
port their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S returned a completed application to Accord in early October 2020. In mid-
October the underwriter raised concerns about their repayment strategy. At the end of 
October Accord told Mr and Mrs S it wouldnt port the mortgage as their repayment vehicle 
wasnt valid. 
Accord accepts that it wrong to tell Mr and Mrs S in early September that theyd be able to 
port the mortgage. And there was a delay in it telling them there was a problem with their 
repayment vehicle between mid and late October 2020. 
Mr S provided more information about their plans to repay the mortgage. But this didnt 
change Accords decision. It says it tried to contact them to tell them this in November. It did 
speak to Mr S on 10 December 2020. Mr S said theyd continue with their sale and buy the 
property for cash. However, it seems they didnt go ahead with the purchase but moved into 
rented accommodation. 
Did Accord treat Mr and Mrs S fairly?
When Mr and Mrs S took out their interest only mortgage in 2012 they said their repayment 
strategy was to downsize. Since then, rules on mortgage regulation have changed. The 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
When Mr and Mrs S met with Accord in September 2020 they said their repayment strategy 
was overpayments and, if necessary, Mr Ss pension lump sum. They intended to use some 
of the equity from their sale to buy a second home and said they could sell this if need be to 
repay the mortgage. And Mr S said he expected a bonus when he retired which could be put 
towards repaying the mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S put forward various options about how theyd repay the 
mortgage and didnt have any concerns that theyd be able to do so. But these strategies 
didnt meet Accords lending criteria. Either there wasnt evidence to support the strategy or 
it didnt provide enough funds to repay the mortgage balance. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt need to port the mortgage for their purchase, they had enough equity 
available from their sale to do this. They wanted to port so that they could use the equity to 
buy a second property, and wanted to avoid paying the ERC. 
I dont think it was unfair for Accord to say it wouldnt offer an interest only mortgage that Mr 
and Mrs S could port their product to. Mr and Mrs S didnt have a repayment vehicle that met 
its lending criteria, and they were able to go ahead with their purchase without a mortgage. 
But I think it should have told them this in September 2020. Accord accepts it made an error 
when it said Mr and Mrs S would be able to port. So I have to consider what it should do to 
put matters right. In doing so, Ive taken into account the following:
The ERC was set out in the product offer sent to Mr and Mrs S. This set out the amount 
of the ERC and when it applied. While the product offer said it was portable, this was 
subject to meeting Accords lending rules. The repayment vehicles available to Mr and 
Mrs S didnt meet Accords lending criteria. 
As Mr and Mrs S repaid their mortgage while the ERC applied, I think Accord was 
entitled to apply the ERC.
Accord didnt tell Mr and Mrs S it wouldnt port their mortgage until late October. Part of 
this delay seems to have been due to the time taken by Mr and Mrs S to return the 
completed application form (almost a month). 
It was Mr and Mrs S decision whether to agree the sale of their property and incur legal 
costs for their sale and purchase without having a mortgage offer in place. Assuming 
they hadnt exchanged contracts before the end of October 2020, it was their decision to 
go ahead with the sale knowing they might not be able to port the mortgage and theyd have to pay the ERC. 
Accords underwriter had raised concerns about Mr and Mrs Ss repayment vehicle 
almost a week before the valuation took place. I appreciate that Accord needs a 
valuation as part of its usual mortgage application process. And that it wanted to give Mr 
and Mrs S an opportunity to provide more evidence of their repayment vehicle. But in the 
circumstances, I think it should fairly have cancelled or at least postponed the valuation.
If Mr and Mrs S had been told in early September porting wasnt possible (as should 
have happened), I think its unlikely theyd have continued with the application. They 
wouldnt have paid the valuation fee. 
Taking the above into account, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to 
refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S for their legal costs, rent or moving 
costs. 
I think Accords offer of £200 for the inconvenience caused by its error is fair and 
reasonable. But I also think if it had given Mr and Mrs S correct information at the outset they 
wouldnt have paid for the valuation. So I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
to require Accord to refund the valuation fee with 8% simple interest from the date it was 
paid to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Accord Mortgages Limited to:
refund the valuation fee with 8% simple interest from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement*, and
pay £200 to Mr and Mrs S. 
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Accord Mortgages Limited to take off tax from this 
interest, it must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman