DRN-2743483
The complaint
Mr A complains about TSB Bank plc (TSB) because his automatically generated 
replacement card did not arrive before the expiry of his old card. He states that this caused
him to miss payments and that consequently he lost services due to non-payment. He wants
TSB to compensate him for his financial loss and his inconvenience.
What happened
Mr A had several accounts with TSB. The account in question had a debit card which was
due to expire in mid-2020.
Mr A called TSB on 19 May 2020 and stated that his card was due to expire on 31 May 2020
and that he had not yet received a replacement.
The agent he spoke with looked on his file and saw that a replacement card had been issued
with an issue date of 1 May 2020. TSB held the correct address for Mr A.
As this had not arrived yet, Mr A and the agent discussed his options. They discussed that
the agent could order a replacement card, but that would have the effect of cancelling both
the existing card and any card that had been, or was due to be, sent out to him.
Mr A elected to have a replacement card ordered and the agent did this.
This cancelled Mr As existing debit card and he was then without a debit card until his
replacement card arrived.
He complained to TSB. He said that his broadband provider and a streaming service had
cancelled his services because card payments had not been made on time, while he was
without a card.
TSB responded on 28 May 2020, not upholding Mr As complaint. It stated that the
replacement card which had been automatically generated would bear the date of issue as
the date when it was produced, rather than the date when it was sent out. TSB says that its
replacement cards should arrive with the customer between two months and one week
before expiry of the existing card. TSB therefore considered that it had not been late in
sending the automatically generated card at the time when Mr A called.
TSB also noted that the streaming service Mr A had mentioned had received a payment on
26 May 2020 and the broadband provider had been paid by direct debit earlier in the month.
TSB therefore did not consider that Mr A had been caused significant distress or
inconvenience.
Mr A did not accept that response and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.
During the course of the investigation TSB has provided evidence that Mr As existing card
was in fact due to expire at the end of June 2020, rather than at the end of May 2020. The
investigator therefore felt that, when Mr A called, TSB failed to check the details sufficiently
and to advise him properly about when he could expect to receive his automatically
generated replacement card. She felt that this caused Mr A to decide to cancel and reorder a
replacement card. She felt that TSB ought to pay Mr A £100 to reflect his distress and
inconvenience.
TSB did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021, setting out that I did not agree with the 
investigators view and that, on the evidence available, I did not consider that TSB had done 
anything significantly wrong. I also set out that in any event I had not seen evidence that Mr 
A had been caused trouble or upset by the card being cancelled. I therefore did not ask TSB 
to do anything further. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties, and they have been invited to 
provide comments or additional evidence. 
The business has responded to that provisional decision indicating that it has nothing further 
to add. 
No response has been received from Mr A. 
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis that no additional comments or evidence have been provided in response to 
my provisional decision, my view remains unchanged. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr As 
complaint and do not ask TSB Bank plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman