DRN-2893415
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays by 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited (2 Plan) in acting on his 
investment instructions.
What happened
Mr S said he requested a meeting with his financial adviser on 25 February 2020 (and it was
held on 27 February 2020) to discuss the fall in markets due to Coronavirus. At that meeting
his IFA reported he had only lost about £744. Early on 28 February he contacted his
adviser to say he wanted his investments protected and stopped from trading or losing any
further revenue. He said that at that point the loss shouldve been stopped at £744. But he
suffered a much greater loss of about £2,500 as it took time to process the request. He said
that if it wasnt possible to act instantaneously on his instructions the policy mustve been
mis sold. He thought he had been misinformed or the adviser didnt act as quickly as she
shouldve. His adviser knew he lost out in the last recession and she told him she monitored
his investments daily.
2 Plan said it was first contacted on 25 February with concerns about the market reaction to
Coronavirus. A meeting was arranged for 27 February. At that meeting the valuations that
were available showed one of Mr Ss plans had gone up in value between 20 and 25
February and one had fallen between 24 and 25 February by a few hundred pounds. The 2
Plan adviser understood the outcome of the meeting to be that Mr S wanted to wait and
monitor the position. The following morning at 7.45 am Mr S texted the adviser to say he
wanted to have his funds protected. The instruction was actioned at 8.51am for both of Mr
Ss plans and confirmed before 9 am. The impact of the instruction wasnt instant as it then
needed to be actioned by the provider in accordance with their processes. The instructions
were actioned the next working day which was Monday 2 March by which time the actual
values were lower than on 28 February, but that was unavoidable. Even if Mr S had given
instructions at the meeting on 27 it wouldnt have made a difference as it would be picked up
the next day as that days valuation point had been missed. It said it had responded to
requests promptly and diligently. It didnt uphold the complaint.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary I considered whether there had been
a delay in acting on Mr Ss instructions to move his investments into cash. I provisionally
concluded that there had not been a delay and I didnt propose to uphold the complaint.
I also commented that for policies such as those held by Mr S, it wasnt possible to instantly
freeze value and changes in investment instructions had to be actioned by the insurance
company in accordance with their procedures. It didnt seem likely that the policy was mis 
sold on the basis it could not be instantly moved into cash.
2 Plan accepted the decision.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He said the key to the complaint was the failure
by 2 Plan to declare the correct financial position at the time of the meeting. He felt it was
important to get hold of the actual figures from the time. He said the overall position for both
him and his wife was relevant to their decision. They were told they were overall up, but they 
were never given copies of the reports to support this. He believed he had been misinformed 
and had he been given the correct financial position both he and his wife would have made 
the same decision to pull investments into cash and not leave them invested. He believed 
the overall position showed a loss and not a net gain as he was advised. He said the stress 
of this issue was affecting the health of him and his wife.
My second provisional decision
Following the comments from Mr and Mrs S I asked 2 Plan to provide copies of valuations
for each of Mr Ss policies and details of the values shown on their system for the dates from 
25 to 28 February 2020. 
From the information provided this showed, there was a mismatch between the valuation 
figure shown by the 2 Plan system and that of the insurance company.
On 25 February Mr S was told he was down around £750 in one policy compared to the 
previous day and up around £1,100 in another since 20 February 2020.
If the 2 Plan system values were used for Policy 1 then on 25 February, the value compared 
to 7 February was over a £1,000 up. But the insurance company valuations show that the 
value on 25 February 2020 was around £2,000 lower than the value on the 2 Plan system on 
25 February 2020 and the policy must therefore have been overall down in value compared 
to the 2 Plan system values on 20 and 25 February 2020.
For Policy 2 the 2 Plan system showed a value around £300 higher than the insurance
company figure.
So, it seemed the reassurance provided on 25 February 2020 that he was overall up wasnt 
correct and overall both policies were lower in value than the 2 Plan system on 25 February 
2020 and by the date of the meeting on 27 February had fallen further.
Mr S had made contact on 25 February 2020 to express concerns about the impact of the
Coronavirus on markets. I had seen copies of the communication from that day. Mr S made
contact after 4pm and said he had read that pension investments had dropped due to foreign
investments collapsing and he thought the FTSE dropped. He asks if his and his wifes
investment are ok?
Mr Ss adviser replies within 15 minutes to say we have seen a significant drop in FTSE this
week, mainly affecting blue chip stock due to the global outbreak of corona virus. It's
affecting all economies and not necessarily a sign of collapse. Earnings figures from the US
today are looking good. I'll run some updated values when the markets close and hope this
is a short term affect until the virus is under control.
Mr S replies to say he wants his funds protected and the adviser replies to say that Whilst
the funds aren't "protected" we have taken a cautious approach.  your SW is down £733
(1% compared to a market drop of over 3%) whilst your new plan is up by £1,185. Hopefully
this has helped to put your mind at rest but if you're still nervous we should meet up and
discuss.
Mr S said we need to meet up as definitely not wanting to end up with more negative which
is all I can see this virus creating.
2 Plan said the information supplied via its system is standard across the industry and the
differences compared to the insurance company values are due to timing differences in
updating underlying fund values. While that may be the case, Mr Ss policies were each
invested in only one fund so there was only one to update.Given the importance of accurate information to allow Mr S to decide, I thought 2 Plan might
reasonably have double checked the values with the insurance company to make sure it was
providing up to date information.
Mr S was clear that he was definitely not wanting to end up with more negative. The reality
was that at the time of the exchange on 25 February 2020 the position was already more 
negative than presented to him.
Even if 2 Plan hadnt checked at the time of the exchange on 25 February 2020 it could have 
done this immediately afterwards. Given the market volatility reported in the press, which 
alerted Mr and Mrs S, and the concern he expressed in his text, I thought this would have 
been a reasonable thing to do. But it didnt and instead it gave Mr S misleading information 
and he delayed action until after the meeting.
The Financial Conduct Authority has various principles that apply to the service provided by
2 Plan. Principle 7 says that a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Based on the information presented I didnt think the information provided was clear and not
misleading. I said that because it didnt check the values were accurate and up to date and it
seems it did have access to the insurance companies to enable it to do this. This meant the 
information provided was misleading as it showed the position to be positive when it wasnt. 
I noted that Mr S could have checked the 2 Plan system, but we know at the time he had
complained he couldnt get access to the system. Further we now know the system wasnt
up to date so there was little benefit in doing this. Also, Mr S was asking and being provided
with information by his adviser, so had no need to double check it himself.
2 Plan also said this matter wasnt the subject of the original complaint. But this service has
power to investigate a complaint more widely than that set out in the original complaint. The
rules governing this service say DISP 3.5.1 The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve
complaints by whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate, including mediation
or investigation.
The purpose of the provisional decision was to allow 2 Plan to make comments that can be
considered to ensure both parties are being treated fairly and reasonably and as required by
DISP rule 3.5.4.
I thought 2 Plan made a mistake and supplied misleading information upon which to allow Mr 
S to decide. Mr S was therefore entitled to be put back in the position he would have been in 
had he been given correct information that was not misleading.
My aim in awarding fair compensation was to put Mr S back into the position he would likely
have been in, had it not been for 2 Plans error. We knew the exchange on 25 February 
2020 took place around 4pm, so I thought the earliest an instruction to move to cash could 
have been acted on by 2 Plan would have been 26 February 2020. Given Mr Ss concern I 
thought it was reasonable to assume that it would have been actioned before 12 noon on 26 
February 2020. So, I proposed to make an award for loss on that basis.
2 Plan didnt agree. It said that at the time everyone was being affected by the pandemic and 
all markets were falling. Mr S would have been aware of this. At the point of the initial email 
discussion the adviser provided information from their valuation system which are provided 
to it by the insurance company. It is not a real time valuation.It believed it supplied the correct values and had no reason to believe the data was incorrect. 
It did not deliberately provide misleading information. There were countless occasions where 
product providers have provided values and on encashment the final values differ due to 
various issues including transaction costs. It believed its adviser had acted promptly and 
professionally. 
Even on the insurance companys own platform there are valuation warnings to say that the 
value is based on the previous working day and is clear the exact value wont be known until 
the investment is surrendered. The valuations are purely an indication of what the actual 
value will be.
It was disappointed with my decision given the difficult context at the time. It also noted that 
in March 2020 some funds were suspended. It felt it was being punished because Mr S was 
invested in funds that fell in value.
Mr S was pleased that I proposed to uphold this complaint. However, he felt the award for 
distress and inconvenience of £350 was disappointing given the 15 months of stress and 
anxiety he had suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the replies from both parties.
I note 2 Plan refer to falling markets and that the valuations were by their very nature already 
out of date. But 2 Plan didnt communicate this to Mr S nor warn him that this was the case 
and that he was relying on information that wasnt current. 
As they say Mr S was aware of the falling markets at the time and that was the reason for his 
call. However, the information provided to him meant he believed his investments hadnt 
fallen overall when in fact they had. So, it is clear his awareness of what was happening was 
the reason he called to get reassurance. The reassurance given by 2 Plan in response was 
unfortunately misleading.
Given Mr Ss concern the adviser couldve warned the values quoted were not the most up 
to date and or suggested checking with the insurance company for the most up to date 
values either then or prior to the meeting. While those wouldnt show the price that would 
apply on sale, they were updated each day and would have been more up to date and 
accurate than the figures on 2 Plans system. At that time the information would have made a 
difference as it would have shown that Mr S was overall down and not up, as was suggested 
to him. He was making a decision about disinvestment based on that information.
At the time markets were volatile and the most accurate and up to date information was 
important to make a decision. 
While the Insurance company systems may contain warnings re value I have not suggested 
that an exact value was needed, and nor would that have been possible. Instead it was the 
most up to date value would have been appropriate. Mr S was interested in his overall 
position and whether it was falling in value. He was told overall he was up and he relied on 
that to defer action. That position wasnt correct, so he relied to his detriment on the 
information provided.I note the comments about suspension of funds. But 2 Plan is liable for a loss because it 
supplied out of date information to Mr S which he relied on. He wasnt told that the 
information was out of date and that more up to date information could be obtained which 
presented a different position. He believed the information to be current and accurate and 
acted in reliance on it by delaying his instruction to encash. Had he been given the most up 
to date information and decided to defer action 2Plan would not have been liable for any 
loss.
I have considered Mr Ss comments about my award for distress and inconvenience having 
done so I remain of the view that my proposed award is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I say that because it is not intended to punish 2 Plan but to reflect the impact 
on Mr S. I note what Mr S says about the impact on his health due to the time taken to 
resolve this matter, but I believe the proposed award fairly reflects the impact on him.
I remain of the opinion that 2 Plan made a mistake and supplied misleading information upon 
which to allow Mr S to decide. Mr S is therefore entitled to be put back in the position he 
would have been in had he been given the most up to date information that was not 
misleading.
I think that had Mr S been given the most up to date information on the 25 February he 
would not have waited until the meeting but would have given an instruction to move into 
cash on 25 February 2020. I say that because his text message said he wanted to avoid 
being more negative. He didnt decide to encash at the meeting on 27 February 2020 as he 
believed he was in an overall positive situation, which wasnt the case. I think it was 
reasonable to conclude that he would have given an instruction to move into cash on 25 
February 2020 and not when he finally did on 28 February 2020.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would likely
have been in, had it not been for 2 Plans error. We know the exchange on 25 February 
2020 took place around 4pm, so I think the earliest an instruction to move to cash could 
have been acted on by 2 Plan would have been 26 February 2020. Given Mr Ss concern I 
think it is reasonable to assume that it would have been actioned before 12 noon on 26 
February 2020. So, I will make an award for loss on that basis.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the
pension from each provider on the date it would have been disinvested (each insurance
company dealing policy will determine what date that would have been actioned having
received the instruction from 2 Plan before 12 noon on 26 February 2020) and subtracting 
the value of the pension from this notional value when it was actually disinvested into cash. If 
the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. If it is positive this is the 
amount of Mr Ss loss. This calculation should be carried out for each of his policies 
separately. There should not be any netting off between the policies. Any new contributions 
paid after the disinvestment and any investment return thereon shall be disregarded.
The amount of any such loss should be adjusted by reference to the interest rate or 
investment return (if any) on the remains of each policy between the date it would have 
moved into cash following the instruction on 26 February 2020 and the day before the date 
of payment of this compensation to Mr S.
Mr S should further receive a payment for Distress and Inconvenience as proposed above.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited should, within 30 days of this service 
notifying it that Mr S has accepted this decision: -
1. Pay Mr S £350 for distress and inconvenience,
2. Calculate and pay to Mr S any financial loss Mr S has suffered, determined by 
obtaining the notional value of the pension from each provider on the date it would 
have been disinvested (each insurance company dealing policy will determine what 
date that would have been actioned having received the instruction from 2 Plan 
before 12 noon on 26 February 2020) and subtracting the value of the pension from 
this notional value when it was actually disinvested. If the answer is negative, theres 
a gain and no redress is payable. If it is positive this is the amount of Mr Ss loss. 
This calculation should be carried out for each of his policies separately. There 
should not be any netting off between the policies. Any new contributions paid after 
the 25 February 2020 and any investment return thereon shall be disregarded.
The amount of any such loss should be adjusted by reference to the interest rate 
and/or investment return (if any) on each policy that would have applied if it had been 
moved into cash following the instruction on 26 February 2020 and further reflects 
any subsequent change in investments after that date and up to the day before the 
date of payment of this compensation to Mr S.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ss pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plans if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr S hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
If the amount of £350 isnt paid within 30 days of this service notifying 2 Plan Wealth 
Management Limited of Mr Ss acceptance such amount shall be further increased by 8% 
per annum simple interest from the date of notification to the date of payment to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman