DRN-4263705
The complaint
Mr S complains that RLUM Limited advised him to invest at too much risk and that it failed to 
apply the correct redress methodology when working out what compensation it should pay 
him.
To put things right, Mr S wants RLUM to compensate him by reference to an index that 
reflects his balanced risk approach.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr S made the following investments:
a single lump sum investment of £500 into the US Growth Trust on 10 March 2001
£260 per month into the UK and European Growth Funds (split equally between the 
two funds) from 6 December 2000 to 6 January 2004.
In total he invested £10,380 and he encashed all his units on 13 January 2006 for a total 
amount of £13,094.21.
Mr S complained to RLUM that the investment advice he received was unsuitable because 
hed been wrongly advised to invest in high risk overseas stock which didnt reflect his lack 
of investment experience and his medium level risk approach. 
RLUM said Mr S had been provided with relevant point of sale paperwork but didnt address 
the complaint in any detail. RLUM didnt say whether or not it agreed that the investment 
was unsuitable. Instead, it worked out whether Mr S had suffered a financial loss using 
redress calculations it told Mr S it would apply if it had upheld his complaint. RLUM 
concluded that Mr S had made a better return from his investment than he would have made 
if he had invested in less risky investments. So it said that even if it had found that the 
investment was mis-sold, it would not have offered any financial compensation as Mr S 
hadnt suffered a financial loss.
Mr S thought that RLUM should work out redress by using a different index that reflects the 
sort of return he wouldve received on his investment had he invested in medium/balanced 
risk stocks and shares (as opposed to the high risk funds he actually invested in and the 
lower risk benchmark that RLUM had preferred for comparison purposes). 
Our investigator looked in detail at the point of sale paperwork to establish what he thought 
wouldve been a suitable level of investment risk for Mr S to have taken in 2000/2001. He felt 
that RLUM hadnt provided suitable advice to Mr S. His view was that whilst Mr S described 
himself as a balanced investor (indicating he wanted to take a medium level of risk) his 
circumstances made this level of risk unsuitable for him. 
The investigator thought that Mr Ss previous investment experience and circumstances at 
the time made it difficult to see how any investment risk at all was appropriate for him. His 
view was that RLUM should have advised Mr S that only a small level of risk was 
appropriate in his circumstances and that even this level of risk was only being considered 
because Mr S had indicated willingness to take it. 
This led the investigator to conclude that the asset mix reflected by the benchmark that the 
CMC had put forward on behalf of Mr S wasnt reflective of the type of investment that was 
suitable for him, given that he was someone who should only have been advised to take a 
small amount of risk. The investigator felt that the asset mix created from the 50/50 
benchmark RLUM used better represented the type of investment suitable for Mr S and so 
was the correct methodology to calculate any financial loss. The investigator said he wasnt 
proposing to ask RLUM to pay Mr S compensation as he believed the correctly applied 
benchmark showed that Mr S hadnt suffered a financial loss from the unsuitable advice he 
received.
RLUM didnt respond to the investigators view. The CMC replied on behalf of Mr S to say, in 
summary, that:
Mr S remains unable to agree with the investigators assessment and would like an 
ombudsman to review the case.
It is clear from the documentation that pension planning was considered and 
discussed and Mr S already had other plans for retirement.
In terms of risk, it is also clear that detailed discussions took place regarding this, and 
Mr S clearly understood what medium risk meant. Mr S confirmed that he was a 
balanced risk investor.
There was no issue with regard to disposable income once Mr S retired given the fact 
that his mortgage would be cleared, and he would also be in receipt of a state 
pension.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts and 
I hope this is helpful. Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago if a financial business 
doesnt agree, RLUM has said it consents to us looking at this complaint. 
The investigator explained to both parties why he thought the investment advice RLUM 
provided to Mr S was unsuitable. Neither party expressed disagreement with that finding, 
and RLUM has since told us it had already conceded on the suitability of the advice 
during our investigation before it went on to consider loss assessment. So, I dont need to 
say more about the background to this complaint or make any findings about whats already 
been agreed. Its not in dispute that the funds he was invested in represented a high 
investment risk. 
I am proceeding on the basis that all parties agree that the investment advice was 
unsuitable by reason of the recommended funds being too risky for Mr S. Im going to 
concentrate in my decision on what RLUM should fairly and reasonably do to put things 
right in these circumstances. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I have independently come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and I agree with the way he has suggested RLUM should put 
things right.
Ill explain why I say this.
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information.
Central to deciding what RLUM needs to do to put things right is the question of Mr Ss risk 
approach. Ive looked carefully at the point of sale paperwork to help me understand this.
The financial review completed by the advisor in November 2000 recorded the following 
information:
Mr S was married with a dependent child and his wife wasnt in employment 
he was a basic rate taxpayer with earnings from his employment and some rental 
income giving him around £300 disposable income each month
his life savings (shared with his wife) were £10,000 at the time
Mr and Mrs S had nine years left to run on their pension mortgage
Mr S had been in a company pension scheme for between 5-10years.
Mr S needed to make provision in case of serious illness and his existing pension 
arrangements were unlikely to match plans Mr S had for his retirement
he had a requirement to build up a lump sum by saving on a regular basis and his 
investment objective was to maximise capital growth
he had a balanced attitude to risk. 
 There is limited evidence to show how RLUM established Mr Ss risk approach. But I think 
it's fair to say that for someone in his position, Mr S wasnt in a position to take any 
significant risk with his money, given that:
he was advised to invest almost all his disposable income each month so he had 
very little spare cash to cover any extra spending needs which were likely to arise 
from time to time
he had only six years or so until his planned retirement age, so limited opportunity to 
make good any investment losses before he stopped working and could rely only on 
his pension income (which the advisor had flagged up was unlikely to be sufficient for 
Mr Ss needs) plus potentially a small amount of rental income each month
he had limited savings on deposit to provide for all future unplanned costs or 
emergency spending (possibly for three people) and, most likely, no opportunity to 
replenish these out of income  not while Mr S was still working and almost certainly, 
not when he could no longer rely on monthly earnings. 
I've taken into account that Mr S predicted that he would only require 50% of his current 
earnings to provide a comfortable retirement, but its hard to see where Mr S would be able 
to cut down on his usual monthly expenses and outgoings  these appear mainly to be basic 
household costs and living expenses. Nor is it clear how he could boost his monthly income 
to help make up for losing his monthly pay. Whilst Mr S would save on having to pay his 
pension mortgage when this was cleared, this would give him only an extra £119 per month. 
And even with pension income, including eventually his state pension once he reached 
qualifying age, in reality, I think Mr S was potentially facing a drop in income that risked 
leaving him short of enough money to enjoy the comfortable retirement he was hoping for. 
All in all, I think it's fair to say that, realistically, Mr Ss most pressing priority was to save as 
much of his disposable income as possible whilst he was still in work in order to supplement 
his retirement. It follows that he couldnt afford to take risk with his savings as his capacity 
for loss was very limited  in simple terms, he couldnt really afford to lose any money 
without seriously risking his future financial security. 
I think its broadly reasonable, in these circumstances, that any redress calculation needs to 
reflect an overall risk somewhere between the medium risk that Mr S said he wanted and 
taking no risk at all with his money and RLUMs approach to redress here is fair and 
reasonable. 
I say this because taking no investment risk would have better reflected his actual 
circumstances and I think it likely Mr S would have chosen to take less than a medium risk 
with his money, had RLUM explained things in a way that helped him to understand that his 
capacity for loss meant he simply wasnt in a position to take significant risk with his money. 
But I've also taken into account the assurances from the CMC that Mr S had a clear 
understanding of risk and he was comfortable with a balanced or medium risk attitude to risk. 
So its possible that Mr S might still have wanted to take at least some risk with his money. This means that RLUM needs to work out whether Mr S has suffered any investment loss by 
comparing his investment return with the sort of return he could have achieved had he 
invested at a small level of risk. 
I consider that the benchmark proposed by RLUM for working out investment loss broadly 
reflects what wouldve been an appropriate level of risk for Mr Ss investment. 
I am aware it has provided some limited information on a spreadsheet in support of its view 
that Mr S is better off in money terms as a result of acting on RLUMs unsuitable 
recommendation. But RLUM should still follow the directions below in order to ensure that it 
has calculated redress correctly in line with the way we would expect it to in these 
circumstances and demonstrate it has done so.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
On behalf of Mr S, the CMC reiterated its view that Mr S understood and was happy with a 
medium level of risk. It said that Mr S already had a pension mortgage which it considered to 
be high risk, and the balanced approach would have included bonds, gilts and fixed interest 
securities which the CMC says would have offset the risk for Mr S. 
RLUM said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Id like to assure Mr S that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming to my 
final decision. I havent been provided with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case. Id already considered all the main points that have a bearing on the 
outcome. I appreciate that Mr S might still take a different view to me. But I still think its fair 
to award the redress I set out in my provisional decision for all the reasons I explained.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances and objectives when he invested.To compensate Mr S fairly, RLUM must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value 
of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If appropriate, RLUM should also pay interest as set out below.
RLUM should set out its workings in a clearly understandable format showing its 
calculations.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Surrendered
US Growth 
TrustDate of 
investment
UK and 
European 
Growth FundsDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the
date of 
settlement For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, RLUM 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wasnt in a position to risk capital to achieve a reasonable return. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S would 
have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to 
his needs and objectives and his risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and RLUM Limited should take the steps set out above to put things 
right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman