DRN-1739678
 
The complaint
A representative, on behalf of Mr G, is unhappy with a car that he purchased via a 
Conditional Sale Agreement with Close Brothers Limited t/a Close Brothers Motor Finance 
(Close Brothers). He wants to be able to reject this vehicle. 
What happened
Mr G purchased the car in February 2019. Mr G says the car immediately experienced 
problems and he called the garage to raise his concerns. The car was returned, inspected by 
the garage and repairs carried out. Mr G claims, after the car was returned to him, there 
were still problems with it.
It has since been agreed by Mr G and Close Brothers for an independent inspection to be 
carried out on the vehicle. The inspection found that the vehicle does seem to have several 
faults which require further investigation and wouldve been present at the point of finance 
inception. 
An investigator has already looked at this case. Overall she felt Mr G was entitled to reject 
the car. Close Brothers feel very strongly that the more reasonable option to resolve all of 
this is for them to be given the opportunity to get the car fixed. As Close Brothers remain 
dissatisfied with the investigators view, the case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr G confirmed with the garage, immediately after buying the car, that he 
felt there were problems with the vehicle. As I understand the car was returned to the garage 
and repairs carried out. Mr G and the garage disagree as to what exact repairs were carried 
out on the car though. Close Brothers say the garage didnt carry out the repairs Mr G 
claims. So they should still be given the opportunity to make any such repairs.
Whilst I acknowledge the age of the car when it was purchased, I believe the vehicle wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when Mr G bought it. And I think the independent inspection report is 
of this view too. 
I dont accept these faults are down to wear and tear. Or that Mr G had refused an 
inspection of the vehicle to initially take place. Mr G had already returned the car to the 
garage to try to get it fixed. So I believe there has been the chance to repair the vehicle and 
fix these faults. But this didnt happen. Ive considered Mr Gs position under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. I think as the vehicle didnt conform to the contract after one attempt at 
repair or replacement, Mr G is now entitled to reject the car.
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited t/a Close Brothers Motor Finance should  
1. Cancel the agreement and ensure there is nothing further to pay
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr G 
3. Refund the deposit Mr G paid and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
4. Refund all the monthly payments made since inception of the finance agreement
5. Remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file 
6. Pay £150 compensation to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience this situation has 
caused him 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and award redress as set out above.. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of Mr G, to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Robyn McNamee
Ombudsman