DRN-4388791
The complaint
Mrs D complains that  U K insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
For the year from early March 2021, Mrs D insured a car on a policy branded with the name 
Darwin, a trademark of UKI. The policy was arranged and administered by an insurance 
intermediary.
For the year from early March 2022, Mrs D renewed the policy. She was paying the yearly 
cost by instalments of about £38.00 to a finance company.
In early February 2023, Mrs D received a communication about renewal of the policy for the 
year from early March 2023 (at instalments of about £54.00). Mrs D declined.
Mrs D complained to the intermediary. Much of Mrs Ds complaint is about acts or omissions 
of the intermediary in its role as administrator. Insofar as I hold UKI responsible for such acts 
or omissions, I may refer to them as UKIs.
By a final response to Mrs D dated 12 April 2023, UKI said the following:
your credit agreement remained active after your policy was cancelled at renewal, 
no payment was taken however, [the finance company] did attempt to take the 
payment. You were emailed by [the finance company]  informing you that you had an 
outstanding direct debit due and a late fee as this was not fulfilled on time. Based on 
this I have upheld your complaint. I have now cancelled your credit agreement 
meaning you will no longer receive correspondence from [the finance company]  
regarding your direct debits. Given the above I have decided to compensate you 
£20.00, in the form of a cheque
Mrs D brought her complaint to us in mid-April 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that Mrs D 
shouldve had a better experience in her dealing with UKI.
The investigator recommended that UKI should pay Mrs D an additional £75.00 for the 
distress and assist her in communicating with the finance company of there being no 
outstanding balance as well to ensure no further communication is sent to her chasing for 
payments.
Mrs D agreed with the investigators opinion.
UKI disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The twelfth and final payment was due in February 2023. The finance company took 
it by direct debit. 
But Mrs D did an indemnity claim with her bank, which returned the payment back to 
her. Her actions caused the issues. 
UKI correctly sent emails asking for that payment. 
The finance company correctly wrote to Mrs D asking for her to make payment.
Mrs D did eventually call and pay this on 25 April.
There was a backlog, and it didnt get to Mrs Ds request to lapse the policy sooner. 
It renewed the policy. but it didnt ask for or take any payment before lapsing the 
policy.
There was no detriment or impact on Mrs D.
£100.00 in compensation isnt fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont consider that UKI did anything wrong by sending the renewal letter dated early 
February 2023. But Mrs D said (on 20 February 2023) she didnt want to renew. 
Mrs D made the last payment in late February 2023.
UKI has said that it was late in cancelling the finance agreement. 
UKI has accepted that it was late in lapsing the policy. Indeed it sent a welcome letter dated 
2 March 2023, which wasnt appropriate. 
Mrs D reclaimed her last payment in early March 2023. So I dont find that UKI treated her 
unfairly by asking her to pay it again. 
In my view, UKI didnt clearly explain its request for payment until an email dated 21 April 
2023. And Mrs D made payment a few days later.
Also, (although after Mrs Ds complaint leading to the final response), I note that UKI sent  
contradictory emails saying that payment was settled, and then saying it needed more 
evidence.
Putting things right
From what Ive seen, UKI has now done enough to confirm that neither it nor the finance 
company is claiming any further payment from Mrs D. So I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to direct UKI to take any further steps, other than to pay further compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
I keep in mind Mrs Ds age. I accept that UKIs mishandling of the renewal caused Mrs D 
some upset that UKI was renewing the policy contrary to her instructions, and some 
inconvenience in having to contact UKI and the finance company to try to put that right. I 
accept that by reclaiming the direct debit, Mrs D made things more difficult.
I dont consider that UKI did enough by sending Mrs D a cheque for £20.00. In conclusion, I 
agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mrs D  in 
addition to its cheque for £20.00 -  a further £75.00 for distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K insurance Limited to pay Mrs D  in addition to its cheque for £20.00 -  a further 
£75.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman