DRN-3655987
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCFL) to transfer the 
benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
And in October 2017, after terms of the RAA had been met, members of the BSPS were 
sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move 
with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. To assist 
with this decision, in November 2017, the trustees of the BSPS provided Mr C with a 
summary of the transfer value of his scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £96,966.24. A decision had to be made by December 
2017. And Mr C opted to join the BSPS2 when it was established.
Although Mr C had made a decision in response to the time to choose exercise, in January 
2018 he asked DCFL for advice about his BSPS pension.
On 16 January 2018, DCFL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. It noted he was 35, in good health, employed full time and 
married with three children. Mr and Mrs C owned their own home with an outstanding 
mortgage, on a capital repayment basis, that had a remaining term of 22 years. Mr C also 
had a share in two investment properties
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr C was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. And he and his employer were making 
combined contributions to this equivalent to 16% of his salary. 
Mr C also held benefits in another DB scheme from a previous period of employment. As of 
September 2008, the guaranteed pension payable under this scheme was £1,091.45 per 
year. That amount though would continue to escalate until, and in, retirement.
It was recorded that Mr C hoped to retire at age 57 and thought hed need an income of 
£1,200 - £1,500 per month in retirement. The fact find said the reasons Mr C was 
considering a transfer were because he wanted growth above inflation, had a lack of trust 
towards his employer and so would like control of his benefits, didnt want to incur penalties 
if he retired early and was interested in alternative, lump sum death benefits.
A follow up meeting between DCFL and Mr C took place on 25 January 2018. I understand 
at this meeting a recommendation was given by DCFL that Mr C transfer his pension 
benefits to a SIPP. And documents were signed to enable the transfer to take place 
including an authorisation form to the BSPS trustees for the funds to be released and an 
application form for the new pension provider. DCFL also wrote to the trustees of the BSPS 
on the same day, saying it had provided Mr C with regulated advice.
A written summary of the advice given by DCFL was not produced until 31 January 2018  
after the application had been submitted. The suitability report recapped the reasons Mr C 
was considering a transfer  to achieve growth in excess of that offered by the BSPS2, to 
take control of the pension due to a distrust of his employer and fear that even the BSPS2 
may end up in the PPF, to have more flexibility including in relation to death benefits and 
because Mr C was concerned with the reduction to his pension in early retirement. It outlined 
the advantages of a transfer, suggesting the new scheme would meet these objectives. So, 
bearing in mind Mr Cs moderately aggressive attitude to risk, it recommended he transfer 
to a SIPP. Subsequent to the transfer, DCFL would provide ongoing servicing and advice to 
Mr C in relation to the pension, at a cost.
The transfer went ahead in line with DCFLs recommendation. DCFL provided ongoing 
servicing until 2021.
Mr C complained in 2021 to DCFL. He said, because of what hed given up and the 
significant risk now applicable to his pension, he thought the best advice wouldve been for 
him not to transfer and join the BSPS2. So, he thought the advice DCFL had given was 
unsuitable.
DCFL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it thought the advice was suitable based on 
Mr Cs needs, objectives and attitude to risk. It said that it considered the transfer risk to be 
low and that the returns required to match the benefits offered by the DB scheme were 
modest and that the SIPP had outperformed this level of return since the transfer, which it 
said showed the transfer was suitable.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and said 
DCFL should compensate Mr C for any loss the transfer had led to as well as pay £300 for 
the distress caused. He thought Mr C was always likely to receive overall pension benefits of 
a lower value as a result of transferring. And he didnt think Mr C needed to transfer. The 
Investigator thought the information suggested Mr C could meet his retirement objectives 
without transferring and DCFL hadnt made it clear why a transfer was therefore in his best 
interests. The Investigator also didnt think any of the other reasons for transferring given by 
DCFL were strong enough to justify the transfer or Mr C accepting a reduction in benefits. 
And so, the Investigator felt DCFL shouldve advised against a transfer, and that Mr C 
wouldve joined the BSPS2  in line with the choice he made under the time to choose 
exercise.DCFL did not accept the Investigators opinion. It said it believed the advice was suitable. It 
said, in reference to Mr C being able to meet his retirement objectives without a transfer, him 
continuing to work for the same employer and contribute to its DC scheme was not certain. It 
also made the comment that while Mr C was in good health at the time of the advice, this 
wasnt guaranteed to be the case moving forward, so said it did not accept the relevance of 
this. DCFL said its advice was based on Mr Cs objectives  which it felt the Investigator had 
not given enough regard to  and believed he would always have looked to transfer, even if 
it had recommended against doing so.
DCFL also said the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed at the time and so it didnt think using 
this as the basis for redress was fair. DCFL also argued any losses since it had stopped 
providing ongoing servicing should not be apportioned to it.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. So, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DCFL has said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously 
undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and didnt 
highlight any concerns. It has therefore questioned how our service can come to a different 
conclusion  that transfer advice was unsuitable. But our role is different to that of the FCA. 
It is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint, not a business processes and 
practices as a whole, and decide what we consider is fair and reasonable. That is what Ive 
done here.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCFL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
DCFL said that Mr C was interested in transferring so that he could benefit from growth. But 
in my view, this would only be in his best interests if he was likely to improve on the 
guaranteed benefits he was already entitled to. 
DCFL talked about Mr C wanting to, and the SIPP meaning he was able to, achieve growth 
above inflation by transferring  which the DB scheme didnt provide. But that didnt mean 
Mr C would be better off. The guaranteed annual pension the DB scheme would pay was 
revalued and escalated in line with inflation. But just achieving growth above inflation from 
the amount transferred to a personal pension, wouldnt have resulted in his overall benefits 
exceeding those of the DB scheme. To achieve that, hed have needed to achieve growth 
equal to or exceeding the critical yield  how much a new pension would need to grow by 
each year in order to allow Mr C to purchase equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme 
guaranteed  each year until retirement.
DCFL say that the critical yields were modest and were likely to be achieved. But, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I dont agree that this was more likely than not.
DCFL has provided a copy of the transfer value analysis (TVAS) report  which it was 
required to produce by the regulator  it instructed at the point of sale. This included the 
calculation of critical yields. 
The TVAS said the critical yield required to match the full escalating annual pension the 
BSPS2 was likely to provide from age 65, the normal scheme retirement age, was 5.4%. To 
match the benefits the PPF would provide from age 65, the critical yield if Mr C took a full 
pension was said to be 5.06%. Or if taking tax-free cash and a reduced pension, 4.87%.
But DCFL said Mr C was interested in retiring at age 57. So, it also calculated the critical 
yields to match the benefits available at that age. To match the full pension the BSPS2 
wouldve provided at age 57, the critical yield was 6.25%. To match the full pension the PPF 
couldve alternatively provided, the critical yield was 6.17%. Or, if Mr C took tax-free cash 
and a reduced pension under the PPF at age 57, the critical yield was 5.98%.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. For 
29 full years to retirement, as would be the case if Mr C retired at age 65, the discount rate 
was 4.7%. For 22 years to retirement, applicable if he retired at 57, the rate was 4.5%. Ive 
kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%.  
I note DCFL recorded that Mr C had a moderately aggressive attitude to risk. But at the 
time of the advice, his BSPS benefits made up the majority of his private retirement 
provisions. It was not his only provision. But his employers new DC scheme was in its 
infancy. And the BSPS benefits were significantly greater than his other DB scheme. So, Im 
not sure his capacity for loss entirely supported the attitude to risk selected.
DCFL says Mr C selected this risk profile and agreed to it. But Im not sure Mr C necessarily 
understood enough about investment risk to decide this. He indicated in the fact find that he 
had some knowledge of investments from what he read in newspapers etc, had limited prior 
investment experience and had used a financial advisor before. But I cant see that any 
further context was obtained by DCFL. And Mr C has explained that he used a financial 
advisor for mortgage advice, and his investment experience was in shares, sold by a high 
street lender when he had a financial review in relation to a mortgage. So, while he might not 
have been entirely inexperienced, I dont think I can reasonably say he was an experienced 
investor.
Having reviewed the information DCFL recorded when assessing attitude to risk, Mr C did 
indicate a willingness to take some risks and that he wouldnt necessarily be immediately 
concerned if he saw some losses. But I dont agree with DCFL that this necessarily meant 
he was a moderately aggressive investor. It suggested he wouldnt panic. But not in my 
view that he was willing to take high levels of risk. And given that some of the concerns 
DCFL says Mr C had that led to a transfer were the risk of his pension moving to the PPF, 
wanting control as he was concerned his employer could reduce his benefits and that the 
pension would not benefit his family, Id argue that these things indicate an aversion to and 
wanting to guard against risk. So, I think a more reasonable assessment of his attitude to 
risk was that it was likely to be balanced.
I've taken this into account, along with the critical yields, discount rates, composition of 
assets in the discount rate and the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given I think Mr C was more likely 
to have a balanced attitude to risk, and I think therefore returns of around the discount rate 
or at best the regulators middle projection growth rate are what could be reasonably 
expected to be achieved, I think the information suggests Mr C was always likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than the BSPS2 would provide at retirement  at age 65 or 
57  as a result of transferring. And this was also likely to be the case even in the PPF.
DCFL has said the performance of the investments between the transfer being completed 
and the complaint show that the critical yields were achievable. But past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.Flexibility and income needs
DCFL has said Mr C was interested in retiring at age 57. But its own notes indicate that this 
was largely an aspiration. I think most consumers would say they would like to retire early 
when asked  but Mr C indicated he would only make a decision on this much closer to the 
time, and hadnt ruled out instead moving job, going part time or even continuing to work if 
he couldnt feasibly retire. So, I dont think his thoughts or plans were definitive at the time of 
the advice. And in any event, Mr C could take benefits early, potentially from age 57, under 
either the BSPS2 or PPF. So, I dont think he needed to transfer in order to access his 
pension from age 57.
DCFL has said that Mr C was unhappy with the prospect of his pension benefits being 
reduced if he took early retirement under the DB scheme. It is true that if Mr C drew his 
benefits at age 57, under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the amount he could take would be 
subject to an actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension 
benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared with the full 
pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But 
by taking benefits at age 57 Mr C wouldve been receiving his pension for eight years longer. 
It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that DCFL 
gave a balanced explanation of this. And, as Ive already explained, I think Mr C was also 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those hed have been guaranteed 
under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 57 as a result of transferring.
Transferring provided Mr C the flexibility to decide the level of income he took from the 
pension and not incur an actuarial reduction. But the amount he could take was entirely 
dependent on the sum available under the pension plan. And the income he took would 
deplete the plan  potentially leaving him with less than he might need later. Whereas the 
DB scheme benefits, regardless of which point they started, were guaranteed for life. And I 
cant see that it was estimated or discussed with Mr C what level of income he could 
sustainably draw from the pension in order to ensure he had enough funds for his entire 
retirement. 
Taking all of this into account, while I dont doubt Mr C was concerned by his pension 
potentially being lower if he retired early, if all of this had been properly explained to Mr C, 
and hed been in a more informed position, I think hed have likely been more willing to 
accept a reduction.
DCFL says Mr C expected to require an income of £1,200 - £1,500 per month in retirement. 
But again, I cant see that there was any discussion at the point of sale about what level of 
income he could expect to sustainably draw from the SIPP, after a transfer, in order to 
achieve this goal. So, I dont think DCFL has evidenced that a transfer was in his best 
interests to achieve this aim. And I dont think Mr C needed to transfer to meet this objective.
The TVAS said, from age 57, it was estimated that the BSPS2 would provide an annual 
pension starting at £5,501. So not enough on its own to meet Mr Cs estimated income 
requirement. But again, Mr C hadnt ruled out continuing to work. So, any income from that, 
wouldve contributed towards meeting his needs. Mr C also had an interest in two investment 
properties, which were expected to provide a supplemental income as well. And Mr C was a 
member of the new DC pension scheme his employer had put in place. It was over 22 years until he was apparently considering retirement. He and his employers 
contributions to this new scheme were equivalent to 16% of his salary. Before even 
accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr C increasing his contributions, 
by age 57 this fund was likely to be worth in excess of £147,000. And this fund couldve 
been used flexibly from age 57  either by meeting his income needs in full and allowing him 
to draw his DB scheme benefits as close to the normal retirement date as possible to reduce 
the impact of the actuarial reduction or in conjunction with a reduced, but guaranteed, 
income from the DB scheme, with his state pension entitlement later providing additional 
income. And that is before even accounting for Mr Cs other DB scheme or Mrs Cs pension.
DCFL has said contribution to the employers DC scheme were not guaranteed to continue 
because Mr Cs job may not have been secure. But DCFL argued that the membership of 
this scheme was one of the reasons Mr C could take risks with his DB scheme. So, it didnt 
indicate these concerns when it gave advice. And in any event, if Mr C did change employer 
before age 57, which there was no indication he intended to do, its reasonable to assume 
hed have continued contributing towards his retirement provisions via a new employer.
Ultimately, Mr C was only 35 when DCFL advised him to transfer  over 22 years from 
apparently when he intended to take any retirement benefits. And his needs were, in my 
view, largely unknown. And overall, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for him to 
give up his guaranteed benefits when he did  particularly given he was always likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value by doing so. If Mr C later had reason to transfer out 
of his DB scheme, I understand that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he 
couldve done so closer to retirement. 
Death benefits
DCFL says Mr C didnt want his pension benefits to be lost in the event he passed away. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might have seemed an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr C 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think DCFL explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for different death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr C predeceased them. I dont think 
DCFL made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. 
The CETV figure might have seemed attractive as a potential lump sum. But the sum 
remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr C drew in his lifetime. Mr C was 
recorded as being in good health. DCFL has said this was not guaranteed so it doesnt 
accept the relevance of this. But I think it is relevant, as DCFL was required to consider what 
was in Mr Cs best interests. And with no recorded health issues I think expecting Mr C to 
reach at least his average life expectancy was a reasonable assumption. And with that being 
the case, given the advice assumed hed draw benefits flexibly from this pension from age 
57, avoiding the reduction for retiring early under the DB scheme  so potentially taking a lot 
more than the DB scheme wouldve provided  it appears likely the fund wouldve been 
significantly depleted by the time it was likely to be passed on to any dependents. In addition to the ongoing benefit of a guaranteed spouses or dependents pension the DB 
scheme wouldve provided, the fact find also recorded that Mr C had death in service 
benefits. And the new defined contribution pension he was a member of wouldve also 
provided alternative death benefits by way of a lump sum. So, it appears his family was 
already to be provided for by way of a lump sum. And, if Mr C didnt think these were enough 
and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy, which didnt depend on investment returns 
or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, life insurance couldve been 
considered - as given his age and apparent good health this appears likely to have been 
obtainable at a reasonable price. 
DCFL said in the suitability report Mr C was more concerned with his DB scheme benefits 
not being lost. And so, life insurance wasnt considered further. But I think if a more 
appropriate explanation of the existing benefits had been given, and Mr C put in an informed 
position, his opinion mightve been different.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Cs desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. While hed 
held some stocks and shares previously, I cannot see that Mr C had an interest in or the 
knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, DCFL continued to 
manage his SIPP on his behalf after the transfer.  So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from the DB scheme.
I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. And DCFL has said 
that Mr C was concerned about his pension ending up in the PPF  particularly if the BSPS2 
did not go ahead or did, but subsequently failed  and had lost trust in his employer and its 
management of the fund.
I dont doubt Mr C, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. By the 
time he had spoken to DCFL, hed already had to make an important and significant choice 
about his pension  which I doubt is something hed done or contemplated before. Which 
likely played a part in Mr C asking for advice even after making that choice.
I also dont doubt Mr C had likely heard potentially negative things about the PPF. But, 
contrary to what DCFL argues, at the time it spoke to Mr C, I think it was pretty clear to the 
parties that the BSPS2 was likely to go ahead. The time to choose exercise had concluded. 
And I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go 
ahead. 
The BSPS2 shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr C mightve had about the scheme 
moving to the PPF  particularly if DCFL had done more to explain the significant distinction 
between Mr Cs employer and the trustees of the BSPS2.
DCFL has said that Mr C was also concerned that the BSPS2 would eventually fail and he 
may end up in the PPF. But, while his experiences with BSPS to that point mightve made 
him sceptical, there wasnt anything at the time to suggest that the BSPS2 would experience 
the same troubles the BSPS had. And that was why it was even more important for DCFL to 
give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL 
shouldve reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr C through the PPF, while a reduction on what hed have 
been due under the BSPS, was still guaranteed and not subject to investment risk. And he 
was unlikely to improve on the overall pension benefits the PPF wouldve provided by 
transferring out. So, I dont think that any concerns Mr C mightve had about the PPF 
shouldve led to DCFL recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Suitability of investments
DCFL recommended that Mr C invest his SIPP in a particular way. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr C, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr C should, in my view, have been advised not to transfer so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
DCFL has said that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses stemming from those 
investments after it ceased managing the SIPP on Mr Cs behalf. But again, the investments 
would not have arisen at all were it not for DCFLs advice. So, I dont agree that its 
responsibility for loss stemming from its advice ceased when it ended its agreement with 
Mr C.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to understand Mr Cs circumstances, separate his concerns stemming from the 
consultation and his unconfirmed plans for a retirement that was over 20 years away from 
his genuine needs and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. And this action was irreversible. By 
transferring, Mr C was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP. And I think 
DCFL shouldve recommended that he not transfer. 
Mr C had over 22 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interests to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by moving with the BSPS to 
the PPF, as this might not have been offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement  because his plans were not set. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2. So, I think if DCFL had correctly advised him against transferring Mr C wouldve 
have moved his pension benefits to the BSPS2, in line with the choice hed made as part of 
the time to choose exercise. And I dont agree with DCFL that it is unreasonable to base 
redress on this  given, in the circumstances, it is what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened had there been no error.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against DCFL's 
advice. DCFL argues that he wouldve always sought to transfer and had spoken to another 
adviser previously.Ive thought about this carefully. As Ive mentioned, Mr C asked DCFL for advice after 
making a decision to join the BSPS2, suggesting he was unsure of the choice hed made. 
And he has said as much when contacting our service, saying he was thinking about 
transferring when speaking to DCFL. And he may well have already spoken to another 
adviser. But I dont think that means he would always have transferred. Rather I think it 
shows that he wanted professional advice. And Im not inclined to say hed have disregarded 
that.
Ive seen documents that suggest Mr C and DCFL discussed the pros and cons of 
transferring. And a document was completed indicating Mr C had been made aware of the 
risks involved. But ultimately DCFL advised Mr C to transfer out, and I think Mr C relied on 
that advice. 
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the consultation or the PPF, or the potential 
appeal of alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCFL had explained 
that Mr C was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him by 
transferring, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer 
redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that DCFL also pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr C has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would 
have most likely joined the BSPS2, given he had elected to do so as part of the time to 
choose exercise, if hed been given suitable advice.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
DCFL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, DCFL should pay Mr C £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
D C Financial Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman