DRN-4337432
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) took payments in error 
from his bank account for someone elses policy for a game console.
What happened
Mr K had a policy with D&G for a game console. He later contacted D&G because he found 
that it was taking two payments each month from his account. When D&G investigated this, 
it said there was another D&G policyholder with a games console whose account listed Mr 
Ks bank details. It said both policies had been taken out with a specific retailer and had 
different start dates. It refunded the cost of the plan.
Mr K contacted the retailer D&G had named. But the retailer directed Mr K back to D&G, as 
it said it wasnt responsible for the issue. Mr K raised a further complaint. When D&G replied, 
it said its accounts department had established the direct debit instruction had come from 
BACS and had said to change the direct details for the other policyholder to Mr Ks. It said it 
had attempted to speak to the other policyholder and to BACS but had been unable to gain 
any more insight.
So, Mr K complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said D&G 
didnt seem to be at fault for the additional direct debit instruction. However, there were 
issues with the explanations given, which caused Mr K distress. He said D&G should pay 
£150 compensation.
D&G didnt agree it should pay anything further, as it said it refunded the premiums in error. 
So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
A direct debit was being taken from Mr Ks bank for someone elses D&G policy. D&G 
accepted this was the case. It initially told Mr K the issue was with the retailer he had bought 
his game console from and refunded the premiums. Mr K then approached the retailer, who 
investigated and found that the issue was with D&G. 
When Mr K approached D&G again, he was still concerned about how his details had been 
used for another D&G account, including because the explanation D&G had previously 
provided was incorrect. D&G didnt initially provide any further information. So, Mr K raised a 
new complaint. When D&G replied it said the issue was with BACS. D&G later told this 
service the issue originated at Mr Ks bank, which it said provided a slightly incorrect 
reference number that then matched Mr Ks account.
Im aware Mr K has said he raised this with his bank, which told him what D&G said was 
incorrect. I dont have any more information on this, but I also dont think its necessary to do 
so in order to make a fair decision. This is because, regardless of the role of the bank, I still 
think there were a range of issues with how this complaint was dealt with. 
D&Gs investigation and explanation for the first complaint was incorrect. The issue wasnt 
with the retailer. But, because of what D&G had told him, Mr K, understandably, thought it 
was necessary to follow up with the retailer, including because he had concerns about 
whether there had been a data breach. So, I think D&G misled Mr K, albeit unintentionally, 
caused him additional distress and also wasted his time by directing him to the retailer.
When Mr K then went back to D&G, he seemed to have to keep pursuing getting a response 
from D&G about what had happened, including later having to raise a new complaint to get a 
reply. D&G has said it took 5-6 weeks for it to determine what had happened. But I still think 
it could have kept Mr K better informed. I also think when D&G then replied to the second 
complaint what it said was unclear and seemed to suggest another D&G customer might 
have access to his bank details. It also didnt say the issue was with Mr Ks bank, even 
though D&G later told this service that it was. So, again, I think D&G provided Mr K with 
misleading and unclear information, which was likely to have added to Mr Ks distress and 
concern about how his bank details had ended up on someone elses D&G account.
Im aware D&G has told this service it shouldnt have refunded any of the premiums paid for 
the other policy. It refunded about £100, which was the full premiums paid. However, it told 
this service only about £35 of this had been from Mr Ks account. It also said it shouldnt 
have refunded anything because it wasnt its error and Mr K should have got his bank to do 
this. It confirmed to this service it wouldnt request the money back from Mr K, but said that 
because it shouldnt have refunded it, it shouldnt have to pay anything further.
However, I think D&Gs overall handling of the complaints caused Mr K significant distress 
and over several months. I think both of D&Gs replies were unclear and left Mr K with the 
impression there had been some kind of data breach, even though D&G now says this 
wasnt the case and that the issue was with a D&G account number provided by Mr Ks 
bank. Some of the information D&G provided Mr K was also incorrect and caused him 
additional work to try and find out what had happened. As a result, I think D&G should pay 
£150 compensation to reflect the impact on Mr K of how it dealt with his concerns and the 
complaint.
Putting things right
D&G should pay Mr K £150 compensation, which is in addition to any refund it paid.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr K £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Louise O'SullivanOmbudsman