DRN-3955250
The complaint
Mr M complains that Rooftop Mortgages Limited have treated him unfairly when hes made 
overpayments to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr M has an interest only mortgage taken out in 2007. When the mortgage was first taken 
out, it was provided by another lender, Company A. In 2010 the mortgage was transferred 
from Company A to Company B and in April 2019, the mortgage was transferred to Rooftop 
Mortgages.
Mr M made an overpayment of £100 to his mortgage and believes this should be applied to 
the outstanding capital balance of the mortgage. When this hasnt been applied, he feels 
hes unfairly been charged interest he shouldnt have paid. He also feels previous payments 
havent been applied to the capital balance and this has led to him paying more interest too. 
Rooftop Mortgages looked at Mr Ms complaint and didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
It said when the mortgage was taken out with Company A, the terms and conditions said a 
partial repayment could only be made if the payment was at least £5000.00.  
When Rooftop Mortgages took over the administration of the mortgage, it explained how 
overpayments could be made with it. It said overpayments could be made but for an 
overpayment to be taken of the capital balance, the payment needed to be at least 
£1000.00. Rooftop Mortgages said when the mortgage was transferred to it, a welcome 
letter was sent out which explained this.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint and said that she didnt think Rooftop Mortgages 
had done anything wrong. She said the terms and conditions that were applicable to the 
mortgage when it was taken out in 2007  applied throughout the lifetime of the mortgage. 
These said an overpayment could only be made if the amount was £5000.00 or more. This 
was detailed in section 6 of the Mortgage Rules provided with the mortgage offer. 
Our investigator felt because this was more than the amount Rooftop Mortgage said needed 
to be paid for an overpayment to be applied now, she didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. She felt this was more favourable than the mortgage contract terms and so Rooftop 
Mortgages was treating Mr M fairly and because he hadnt made a payment of at least 
£5000.00 it didnt need to apply this to the mortgage balance. She felt it explained the 
change to Mr M when the welcome letter was sent and he should have been aware of this 
requirement based on the information provided.
Mr M responded to say he didnt agree. He highlighted the offer letter provided when the 
mortgage was first taken out and what this said in reference to the terms and conditions. He 
didnt think these were being followed or that Rooftop Mortgages was treating him fairly. Our 
investigators opinion didnt change so the complaint was passed to me for decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. I said I was planning on 
upholding it and explained what I though Rooftop Mortgages needed to do to put things right. 
Ive copied what I said below:
Im planning on upholding this complaint and will explain why.
Having looked at the mortgage offer and the terms and conditions provided within the 
Mortgage Rules when this was taken out, I dont think Rooftop Mortgages has acted fairly or 
in line with the mortgage contract.  
Mr M has made an overpayment and believes this should be applied to the capital of the 
mortgage. In doing so this would impact the amount of interest he needs to pay on his 
interest only mortgage as the debt is reduced.
The relevant section of the mortgage offer is Section 11 titled What happens if you want to 
make overpayments. It says the following:
You can make lump sum payments of up to £5000 during a 12-month period. For any 
amount over this an early repayment charge will apply on the basis set out in Section 10.
The amount you owe and the interest you pay is not recalculated immediately following any 
lump sum overpayment, but is recalculated monthly on the 1st of the month.
The early repayment and redemption charges which might be applicable to overpayments 
are detailed in section 6 of the Mortgage Rules. Rule 6.2 makes reference to overpayments 
and contradicts section 11 of the mortgage offer terms. This says a partial payment must be 
of at least £5000.00 and will be subject to fees and charges detailed in 6.1 of the Mortgage 
Rules. But I dont think this is applicable to the payment Mr M made or follows the intention 
of Section 11 of the Mortgage offer. 
Section 11 only says early repayment or redemption fees need to be paid if the overpayment 
is more than £5000.00 and it doesnt put a minimum amount on what can be paid in a 12 
month period without this being incurred. So it follows, that 6.2 of the Mortgage Rules is only 
relevant for payments in excess of £5000.00. The Mortgage Rules relating to the early 
repayment charges are amended by the mortgage offer which says the following.
The terms and conditions as stated in the Mortgage Rules 6.1 and 6.3, which relate to this 
advance, are amended in accordance with Section 10 of the Key Facts Illustrations that 
forms part of this offer letter.
So I dont think it is fair to say the original mortgage contract didnt allow Mr M to make 
payments of less than £5000.00. And if a payment was made for less than this amount, the 
amount he owed should be recalculated together with the interest he pays the month after 
the payment was made.
So following the terms of the mortgage offer, Mr Ms overpayment of £100.00 should have 
been deducted from the capital balance owed and the interest adjusted the month after the 
payment was made.
Rooftop Mortgages can vary the terms of the original mortgage contract, its ability to do this 
is set out within the Mortgage Rules within section 25, Variations. But I dont think Rooftop 
Mortgage has attempted to vary the terms and conditions of the mortgage. Although it 
explained how it will apply overpayments in its welcome letter, it did not explain this was a 
variation of the terms and conditions, nor did it provide an amended terms and conditions to 
Mr M to show how these had been varied.The introduction of a minimum amount for overpayments contradicts section 11 of the 
mortgage offer and the details of how an overpayment could be made when set out here. I 
dont think it is fair that Rooftop Mortgages failed to provide notice that this term was being 
varied and that it was making a change to the contract terms. And in the absence of this, I 
think it is fair that it applies Mr Ms overpayment and any previous overpayments in line with 
section 11 of the mortgage offer.
I also think its fair that Rooftop Mortgages compensate Mr M for the inconvenience caused 
in failing to apply the original mortgage terms correctly. 
To put things right, I plan on asking Rooftop Mortgages to apply Mr Ms overpayments to his 
mortgage, in line with section 11 of the mortgage offer. It should back date the payment to 
the date it should have been applied to the capital balance of the mortgage (so the month 
after the payment was made), adjusting the interest as applicable. If Mr M has paid more 
interest than he should have, Rooftop Mortgages should refund him any overpayments with 
8% simple interest added.
It should also pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused when it failed to 
apply the payment in line with the mortgage contract. 
Rooftop Mortgages responded to say it accepted the provisional decision. Mr M responded 
to say hes received the provisional decision but gave no comment on the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the information on this complaint again. As neither side has provided any 
additional information to the complaint or disputed my planned outcome, I see no reason to 
depart from what I said previously. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things right
Rooftop Mortgages should apply Mr Ms overpayments to his mortgage, in line with section 
11 of the mortgage offer. It should back date the payment to the date it should have been 
applied to the capital balance of the mortgage (so the month after the payment was made), 
adjusting the interest as applicable. 
If Mr M has paid more interest than he should have, Rooftop Mortgages should refund him 
any overpayments with 8% simple interest added.
It should also pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused when it failed to 
apply the payment in line with the mortgage contract. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman