DRN-3585511
The complaint
Mrs K has complained AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) didnt carry out affordability 
checks before it provided her with two loans. 
What happened
In total, Mrs K was granted three loans from AvantCredit, however, this decision only 
focuses on loans one and two. Loan three was subject to a separate complaint. A summary 
of her borrowing I am considering can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(month)monthly 
repayment
1 £2,200.00 04/05/2015 10/08/2015 24 £152.63
2 £2,200.00 04/10/2015 19/10/2015 24 £158.44
AvantCredit issued its final response letter to Mrs K on 18 October 2021. Mrs Ks complaint 
wasnt upheld because AvantCredit says it took details of her financial situation before the 
loans were approved and it also carried out a credit search. AvantCredit was satisfied that it 
had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that Mrs K would be able 
to afford her loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs K referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Mrs Ks complaint was considered by an adjudicator and she didnt think AvantCredit had 
made a fair lending decision for either loan. For loan one, AvantCredit had recorded the 
purpose of the loan as debt consolidation but it hasnt shown what debts, if any would be 
repaid. But with Mrs Ks outstanding debt that it was aware of from the credit search results 
the adjudicator concluded for both loan one and two that Mrs K was committed to spending a 
too high a portion of her income on her credit commitments. So, she concluded neither of 
these loans shouldve been approved. 
Mrs K acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but she didnt have anything 
further to add. 
AvantCredit didnt agree with the adjudicator, in response and in summary it said;
Mrs K had complained too late about these loans as Mrs K had complained more 
than six years after these loans had been approved. It considered the loans out of 
jurisdiction. 
AvantCredit says for loan one Mrs K told them she would consolidate her debts, and 
it was fair to assume she would. 
Although, AvantCredit couldnt say exactly which debts would be consolidated it has 
assumed  given the amount borrowed  that at least 4 of Mrs Ks accounts could be 
settled in full plus part of another debt. In AvantCredits view Mrs Ks monthly credit 
commitments could reduce from £1,393 to £721. 
This wouldve left Mrs K with a sufficient amount of disposable income of around 
£610 per month. 
By the time of loan two, Mrs K had 18 active credit accounts and these credit 
commitments along with the AvantCredit loan meant Mrs K wouldve needed to have 
paid around £1,176 per month to credit commitment or 64% of her income. 
Loan two also looked affordable and Mrs K had sufficient amounts of disposable 
income left over to be able to afford her living costs. 
The jurisdiction element of this complaint has already been considered and I previously 
issued a decision explaining why the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider both of 
Mrs Ks loans. 
No further response was received from AvantCredit about whether it agreed with the 
adjudicators assessment and so the case has been passed to me to decide whether 
AvantCredit should (or should not) have provided loans one and two.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs K 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs K would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ks ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments towards the loans wouldnt cause Mrs K undue difficulty 
or significant adverse consequences. 
That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payment she had 
a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint.
Loan one
For this loan, AvantCredit asked Mrs K for her monthly income, which she declared as being 
£1,832. AvantCredit said in the final response letter that this amount wouldve been checked 
with the credit reference agencies for its accuracy. Mrs K also declared she had monthly 
outgoings of £741  this included other credit commitments, utilities and council tax. 
Based on the above figures, AvantCredit wouldve likely been confident that Mrs K would be 
in a position to afford her loan repayments. 
However, as part of the application process a credit search was also carried out and a copy 
of those results have been provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It is worth saying, 
that the amount Mrs K declared for credit commitments as part of her application was clearly 
incorrect and AvantCredit seemed to have realised this from the credit check results. 
A summary of the results are as followed;
Mrs K had eight active credit accounts  including two active payday loans. 
£11,835 of debt with an estimated monthly repayment towards those debts of £1,138. 
With other repayments, AvantCredit calculated Mrs Ks credit commitments per month as 
being £1,395. So, at the point the loan was approved, AvantCredit was already on notice 
that Mrs K was spending a significant portion of her income towards repaying other credit 
providers. An amount that I consider far too high, when considering Mrs K still had living 
costs that needed to be paid, such as council tax, petrol, food to name a few. So, to me 
based on the results of the credit check, the loan was clearly unsustainable for Mrs K. 
However, AvantCredit has recorded the purpose of the loan as debt consolidation and had 
Mrs K done this, then in AvantCredits view this wouldve reduced her monthly credit 
commitment. 
Although it appears to have made no attempt to establish what debts would be repaid with 
this loan. So, I do have very real concerns with AvantCredits arguments here as it had no 
way of knowing that the accounts it has highlighted would be repaid. AvantCredit has also 
suggested that given the amount Mrs K borrowed she couldve repaid four of her accounts 
as well as repaying 42% of another credit card account. In AvantCredits view this made its 
loan sustainable for Mrs K. But, as AvantCredit took no details of what debts Mrs K was intending to consolidate, I cant 
be confident that Mrs K was going to use the loan not just for debt consolidate but would 
actually repay the debts that AvantCredit has suggested.  Mrs K may have decided to repay 
a different combination of loans / credit cards which may have had a greater or lesser impact 
on her monthly credit commitments. 
It is also not clear, how this loan wouldve been helping Mrs K when the accounts that 
AvantCredit have suggested that Mrs K may have repaid were likely attracting a lower rate of 
interest than this loan. 
It is also suggested that one or two of the loan accounts were likely to be payday loans (that 
were due to be repaid). But I dont understand why AvantCredit would think it would be 
reasonable to move her from a product that provided a cost cap to a longer-term loan / 
product where there was no such cost cap. 
Also, even if I accept that Mrs K would repay the credit commitments AvantCredit has 
suggested it wouldve, according to them reduced her monthly credit commitments from 
£1,395 to around £721. But, even if Mrs K did this (and to be clear I have no evidence this 
wouldve happened), I still think, Mrs K repaying nearly 40% of her income to credit 
commitments was too high. 
So, like, the adjudicator, I do think this loan wasnt sustainable because shed be committing 
to spend a significant amount of her monthly income in repaying her credit commitments. In 
addition to this, Mrs K wouldve had living costs. This has led me to conclude that I dont 
think AvantCredit shouldve approved this loan as it was, in my view unsustainable for her. 
I appreciate this loan was repaid within three months, but at the time the loan was approved 
AvantCredit expected this loan to be repaid over 24 months, and it was on that basis the 
affordability check needed to have been conducted. I dont think, in this case, the loan being 
repaid early is a sign the loan was affordable or sustainable for Mrs K. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think AvantCredit should have provided Mrs K with this 
loan. 
Loan two 
When this loan was approved, it seems that AvantCredit check carried out the same sort of 
checks for this loan as it did for loan one. This time, Mrs K told AvantCredit this loan was for 
a holiday. 
AvantCredit used a monthly income of £1,732 and Mrs K declared she had monthly 
outgoings of £741. So, like loan one, AvantCredit may have thought the loan repayments 
were affordable for her. 
A credit search was also carried out and like loan one Ive summarised some of the headline 
results;
AvantCredit says there were now 18 credit accounts. 
Mrs Ks debt had increased to £16,223 with an estimated monthly repayment of 
£1,461. 
However, in response to the adjudicator, AvantCredit says that Mrs Ks monthly credit 
commitments wouldve been around £1,017. It isnt clear how AvantCredit has arrived at 
this figure considering the amount that is outlined in the credit report. From the credit report and AvantCredits own summary it is clear that either Mrs K didnt use 
loan one to consolidate some credit accounts or she did and shed then taken a significant 
amount of new credit between May and October 2015. 
So, with the AvantCredit loan, Mrs K wouldve either have had monthly credit commitments 
of £1,619 (based on the amount from the credit file) or, on AvantCredits calculations, of 
£1,175. Plus, on top of this there also wouldve been her other living costs like council tax. 
In my view, whether I use AvantCredits calculations or the ones from the credit file, in my 
mind makes no difference to the outcome that Im reaching. In my view, paying at least 64% 
of your monthly income towards credit commitments is in my view unsustainable and shows 
that Mrs K ought to not have advanced any more credit or loans because there was a 
significant risk that Mrs K couldnt repay this loan in a sustainable manner. 
Therefore, like loan one I think AvantCredit shouldnt have advanced this loan either. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs K to repay the principal amount that she borrowed in 
respect of loans one and two, because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have 
concluded AvantCredit shouldnt have provided these loans, it should look to remove the 
interest and fees from the amounts due under the loan agreement. 
AvantCredit should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans one and two;
treat any payments made by Mrs K as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Mrs K has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to her with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to the 
date of settlement; and
remove any negative information recorded about loans one and two from Mrs Ks credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
AvantCredit of UK, LLC should put things right for Mrs K as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman