DRN-1779403
The complaint
Mr G complains that LeasePlan UK Limited applied unfair charges at the end of his hire 
agreement. He wants the disputed charges waived.
What happened
In May 2016 Mr G was supplied with a car under a hire agreement with LeasePlan. The car 
was inspected and collected in May 2019. LeasePlan later invoiced Mr G for damage 
charges.
Mr G disputed the charges. He feels that its usual for a car returned after 3 years to have 
some minor scratches and dents.
LeasePlan reviewed the damage and agreed to waive some, but not all, of the charges. Mr 
G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint and said she didnt think Mr G should be 
responsible for a nearside front door scratch and that LeasePlan should waive this charge. 
She thought all the other charges had been applied fairly.
Mr G didnt agree with the outcome, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr G would be concerned to be invoiced for charges he hadnt expected 
and considers to be excessive
Mr G acquired the car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated credit agreement and as a 
result this service can look into complaints about it.
Mr Gs responsibility was to return the car in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. This includes a term requiring him to return the car in good condition, fair wear 
and tear excepted.
BVLRA guidelines on fair wear and tear are a recognised industry guide which is used to 
provide a consistent approach to the assessment of damage when a car is returned at the 
end of a hire period.
Briefly summarised, the disputed areas of damage relate to scratches on the nearside 
quarter panel, dents on the nearside sill and a scratch on the nearside front door.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in my 
own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
disrespect is intended. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our 
rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of this service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every point in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen photographs of the car which were taken around the time of inspection. Ive looked 
at the inspection report and Ive considered the relevant guidelines. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that the damage identified falls outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines, save for the scratch on the nearside front door which isnt clearly visible.
Putting things right
In summary, and save for that which Ive identified, I find the majority of the damage to fall 
outside of the BVLRA guidelines. The charges for the scratch to the nearside front door 
should be waived. I think the remained of the charges have been fairly applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. LeasePlan UK Limited must waive 
the charge for the NSF door scratch.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman