DRN-4184999
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Howard Wright Ltd (HW) caused her late husband Mr Ls annuity to be 
set up incorrectly. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr L and Mrs L jointly received retirement planning advice from HW. One part of the 
resulting recommendation from HW was that Mr L transfer the benefits of an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) he held to a personal pension provider, who Ill refer to as [X], and 
purchase an annuity. 
The documentation from the meeting shows Mr Ls intention, when considering the basis of 
the annuity, as follows:
The annuity payments would commence, payable to Mr L immediately following the 
set-up of the policy.
Should Mr L die during the guarantee period then the annuity payments would 
continue, and be paid to Mrs L.
Should Mrs L survive the entire guarantee period then at the conclusion of this period 
she would receive a 100% spouses pension.
Should Mrs L also die during the guarantee period, then the annuity payments due 
for the remainder of the guarantee period should be made to Mr Ls daughter (Mrs T).
Based on Mr Ls objective of ensuring sufficient income for the rest of your and [Mrs L]s 
life. the recommendation made by HW on 15 March 2018 was for Mr L to set up the annuity 
in the following manner:
Joint life 100% spouses pension
Level escalation
20-year guarantee period
Paid monthly in advance; and
Taking the maximum tax-free cash available.
HW had obtained various annuity quotes and advised Mr L to take the annuity offered by [X] 
as it said this provided the highest level of income whilst meeting the five criteria above. 
Along with this written recommendation, HW included the Key Features of the personal 
annuity quote for Mr L from [X]. This included details about what benefits would be paid upon 
Mr Ls death. The annuity payment was to be £1,389.48 paid monthly in advance.
This recommendation was accepted by Mr L. HW provided an application form for Mr L to 
complete. 
The application form was completed by hand and signed by Mr L on 15 March 2018. The 
form showed Mrs L named under the section Spouse, registered civil partner or dependent 
and it showed Mrs T named under the Beneficiary payment details section.
This completed application form was returned to HW who emailed it to [X] on 16 March 
2018.
The funds from Mr Ls OPS were transferred to [X] during April 2018 for immediate vesting 
into an annuity.
On 30 April 2018 [X] wrote to HW via email with its illustration of the annuity it was setting up 
for Mr L, and asked to be contacted immediately if it was unhappy with anything included. 
HW spoke to Mr L on the same day and Mr L confirmed he was happy to proceed. HW 
emailed [X] on 1 May 2018 with an instruction to go ahead.
[X] sent the policy documents to HW on 3 May 2018, and HW forwarded these on to Mr L on 
10 May 2018. The annuity was set up, the tax-free cash sum was paid to Mr L and the 
annuity payments commenced.
In February 2022 Mr L passed away. Mrs L contacted [X] to inform them but was told that 
the way the annuity had been set up meant that she wouldnt receive the 100% spouses 
pension until the conclusion of the 20-year guarantee period, in 2038. And that the annuity 
payments would continue until that time but be paid to the person named as beneficiary, 
Mr Ls daughter, Mrs T.
HW queried this with [X] but was told that the policy had been set up as requested in the 
application completed by Mr L and [X] had no discretion in this regard.
Mrs L made complaints to both [X] and HW saying the annuity had been set up incorrectly. 
[X] did not uphold the complaint as it said it had no discretion over who the required 
payments were made to as it had to adhere to Mr Ls wishes as he had set out in the 
application form.
HW also did not uphold the complaint as it considered the complaint should be against [X]. It 
explained the suitability report it had completed clearly showed that in the event of Mr Ls 
death he wanted the remainder of the guarantee period payments to be made to Mrs L. HW 
said the application had been completed by Mr L incorrectly as  [X]s form was confusing, but 
as Mr Ls intentions were clear, HW thought [X] should honour his wishes and pay the 
guarantee-period payments to Mrs L. 
Both the complaint against [X] and the complaint against HW were brought to our Service 
and considered separately. The view of the investigator was that the complaint against [X] 
should not be upheld as she thought [X] had followed the instructions of Mr L, as hed set out 
in the application form, and [X] had no discretion to depart from that. This outcome was 
accepted by Mrs L and the complaint closed.
However, our Investigator thought that the complaint against HW should be upheld. She 
thought that HW had obtained annuity quotes on a different basis to what Mr L had wanted. 
She thought the quotes should have been on the basis of overlap but had been obtained 
without this. Overlap is where annuity payments would continue to be paid to both a 
dependant and a beneficiary for the remainder of the guarantee period. She identified that 
although Mr L had signed the application form himself, it had likely been pre-populated by 
HW. And although Mr L had received the quotes and the annuity policy documents, it was 
reasonable for Mr L to think the quotes HW had obtained reflected the annuity that he had discussed with them and that he required. She concluded it was reasonable for Mr L to have 
relied on HW ensuring what they had agreed was reflected in the documents. And that HW, 
as his paid advisers, ought to have checked the vital details, such as who the annuity would 
be paid to, in both the initial application, and in the policy documents once they were 
received. 
Our Investigator then set out how she thought Mrs Ls losses should be redressed. In 
summary she thought HW should pay Mrs L for the annuity payments shed missed since 
Mr Ls death, and that HW should set up an annuity which would pay Mrs L an equivalent 
amount until the end of the guarantee period. 
HW did not agree. It said the question of Overlap was irrelevant and was not something that 
Mr L ever wanted on the policy, so the quotes it had applied for were on the correct terms. It 
said that Mr L had accidently made an error when filling in the application form, and this was 
caused by the form being confusing and unclear. HW maintained that the evidence of the 
suitability report, and its advisers and Mrs Ls recollections, made it clear what Mr Ls wishes 
were  that Mrs L should receive the guarantee period annuity payments, and Mrs T should 
only get these if Mrs L died before the end of the guarantee period. And for these reasons, 
and because the application form was confusing, [X] should be required to make the annuity 
payments to Mrs L.
HW also quoted a previous Ombudsmans decision where a complaint against [X] was 
upheld and it was required to make annuity payments to a nominated dependent. HW stated 
the circumstances were so similar that, for reasons of consistency, this should be taken into 
account when considering the outcome of Mrs Ls complaint.
Our Investigator accepted that the Overlap argument that she had made was irrelevant as 
this was not something that Mr L had ever wanted or asked for. So she agreed that the 
quotes HW had obtained were on the correct basis. However, she maintained that as Mr Ls 
paid advisers, HW were responsible for ensuring the annuity policy was set up in a way that 
properly reflected his wishes. Once the application form had been completed by Mr L and 
sent to HW, it ought to have checked the form for accuracy. And if HW had found the form 
confusing it ought to have clarified with [X] how it needed to be completed to ensure it 
accurately reflected Mr Ls wishes. Had the form been checked and amended where 
necessary, it was likely the annuity would have been set up as Mr L had wanted, and Mrs L 
would have been receiving the annuity payments.
Our investigator went on to point out that [X] had emailed the policy document to HW on 30 
April 2018 to check and pass on to Mr L. She thought that HW also ought to have checked 
the details on the policy to ensure it was set up correctly, but this didnt appear to have 
happened. So our Investigator maintained that she thought HW were responsible for 
ensuring the policy was correctly set up, and so should now be responsible for paying the 
annuity payments that ought to have been paid to Mrs L had Mr Ls intentions being reflected 
in the annuity as arranged.
However HW did not agree. It said it did not consider it fair if both Mrs T and Mrs L were to 
receive the benefits for the duration of the guarantee period as this wasnt putting the family 
back in the position they ought to have been in had the annuity been paid in the way Mr L 
had intended. HW also maintained that it had been Mr L who had completed the application 
form, and it hadnt been pre-populated by HW.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Having considered everything, I was minded to uphold the complaint. However I felt the 
outcome needed some further explanation and the redress calculation proposed by the Investigator should be changed. For these reasons I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 
2022 setting out the reasons why I thought the complaint should be upheld against HW, and 
how I thought the redress due to Mrs L should be calculated. In my provisional decision I 
said:
Firstly, I will address the previous ombudsmans decision referred to above. When assessing 
any complaint, the role of an ombudsman is to assess the evidence, to come to a fair and 
reasonable outcome on the merits of the specifics of that complaint. Whilst trying to be 
consistent with previous decisions, the outcome will always be specific to the individual 
complaint as all circumstances are different. 
This decision is solely about the complaint against HW. I will not comment on the actions of 
[X] as these have already been considered by this service. I understand that HW are 
drawing some parallels in the circumstances with a previous and unrelated Ombudsmans 
decision, but my decision is based only on the evidence and circumstances surrounding this 
case, and not any other. 
I also acknowledge HWs point that should I require it to pay Mrs L the value of the annuity, 
this would mean her family, as a whole, would be receiving more that it ought to. Whilst I 
understand its point, I am looking at this complaint as made by an individual. It is my role to 
consider the impact on the individual, and where I find a business error has caused that 
individual a financial loss, I look to try and ensure that individual is put back, as closely as 
possible, into the position they would have been had it not been for the error.
The complaint against HW
From my examination of the suitability report produced by HW in early 2018, Im satisfied 
that the following is an accurate summary of Mr Ls retirement objectives:
The annuity payment would be made to Mr L immediately following the set-up of the 
policy.
Should Mr L die during the guarantee period then the annuity payments would 
continue, and be paid to Mrs L.
Should Mrs L survive the entire guarantee period then at the conclusion of this period 
she would receive a 100% spouses pension.
Should Mrs L also die during the guarantee period, then the annuity payments due 
for the remainder of the guarantee period should be made to Mr Ls daughter (Mrs T).
This doesnt appear to be in dispute. And the annuity quotes that HW obtained appear to 
have been based on the above requirements, whilst also taking into account Mr Ls and 
Mrs Ls personal circumstances. 
So Im satisfied that the quote that was produced by [X] would have, had it been applied for 
properly, provided the annuity which wouldve met Mr Ls specific requirements.
HW has made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I have looked 
at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the 
courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter, rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to 
HW. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The crux of the matter is the way the application form for the annuity provided by [X] was 
completed, and the checks which occurred, or ought to have occurred, to ensure it was completed properly. And once it had been set up, whether it would be reasonable to expect 
anything more to have occurred to ensure it was set up in the way Mr L intended.
HW was Mr Ls paid financial adviser. Mr L sought professional retirement planning advice 
from HW in its role as a regulated financial adviser. As such HW had certain professional 
responsibilities towards Mr L. These are spelled out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook. Most relevant to this complaint are:
PRIN 2.1.1.2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1.6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
 them fairly
COBS 2.1.1  A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client.
Whilst there is no suggestion that HW has acted dishonestly at any stage, I have to pay due 
regard to whether I think it has conducted its business with due skill, care and diligence, and 
whether it has treated Mr L fairly, and acted in his best interests. And from the evidence I 
have seen, I do not think it has done either. Ill explain.
As I have said, Mr L sought retirement planning advice from HW. I can see that there were 
detailed discussions and HW seem to have been diligent in obtaining all the necessary 
information required. Mr Ls retirement objectives were clear, and the recommendation and 
suitability report compiled by HW were comprehensive and accurately reflected his 
objectives. And Im satisfied that the quotes HW obtained from various businesses (including 
[X]) were obtained on the correct terms.
However, Mr L wished his annuity to be prepared in a relatively unusual manner. On the 
event of his death, Mr L wanted Mrs L to receive his annuity payments for as long as she 
lived, and if she died during the 20-year guarantee period then the payments should revert to 
his daughter, Mrs T. As his financial adviser, HW was required to provide advice and support 
to Mr L. But given the relative complexity of the proposed arrangement, I believe it was 
particularly incumbent on HW to ensure the application form was completed correctly, and 
any queries or confusion ought to have been settled by HW, on Mr Ls behalf, prior to the 
annuitys inception.
I have seen a copy of the annuity Key features document that HW gave to Mr L. Under the 
heading What death benefit options do I have? it explains both the guaranteed minimum 
payment period, and an income for your dependant. These are under different headings, and 
does, in my view, show that they are different elements which need to be treated separately. 
Ive seen evidence that HW pre-populated an application form for the annuity from [X] and 
sent this in the post to Mr L in a letter dated 14 March 2018. I have not seen a copy of this 
pre-populated form, but the letter asks Mr L:
With regards to the [X] application, I would be grateful if you could complete the following 
highlighted sections:
Bank details
Sign the last page as a member
[Mrs L] to sign the last page in Spouse details.
So it is likely that HW, having completed the application form, other than the limited details above, would have been aware of the correct way to complete it in order to accurately reflect 
Mr Ls wishes.
But this pre-populated application form wasnt used. There seems to have been a need to 
expedite matters, probably due to the imminent expiry of the valuation of Mr Ls occupational 
pension. So HW also emailed blank versions of the required forms on 15 March 2018 to Mr L 
and asked him to complete and return them, which he did so on the same day. Ive seen a 
copy of this hand-written application form and it seems to have been signed by Mr L, dated 
15 March 2018, and signed and dated by HW on 16 March 2018. For clarity, the relevant 
parts of this application form completed by Mr L showed the following: 
Under the heading Spouse, registered civil partner or dependent (with a note  Only 
complete if you wish to provide a pension for this person on your death.) 
Mr L has named his wife, Mrs L in this section.
Under the heading Beneficiary Payment Details, there is a note  Only complete if youve 
chosen a guarantee period and you are purchasing the annuity. If you die during your 
guaranteed payment period, you can nominate someone to receive the remaining income 
from your pension fund.
Mr L has named his daughter, Mrs T in this section.
It is reasonable to think that as his professional adviser, HW ought to have been diligent in 
checking the application for completeness and accuracy, and any differences between how 
Mr L completed it and how HW had completed the same form the day before ought to have 
been recognised. And this was especially necessary given the relatively complex nature of 
the annuity set-up.
But I cant see that the form was checked properly, because the error Mr L made in entering 
his daughter, Mrs Ts name in the beneficiary section wasnt identified. And HW submitted 
the form to [X] with no further questions. HW has since told our service that the form was 
unclear and confusing, but this only strengthens my argument that HW had a duty to Mr L to 
ensure what it was submitting to [X] on his behalf was correct and error-free, and had HW 
had any doubts as to what needed to be included in the form, it ought to have sought advice 
from [X] prior to its submission.
But the submission of the application form did not signal the end of HWs responsibilities. [X] 
began setting up the annuity, and sent HW an illustration of the proposed policy on 30 April 
2018. Ive seen a copy of this illustration. It sets out Mr Ls details, and the value of his 
annuity. Under the section: What benefits will be paid out when I die?:
Joint Life option:
On your death, 100.00% of your pension will be paid to your spouse as an income 
and will start after (my emphasis) the guarantee period has expired. It will be paid for 
the rest of her life.

Payment guarantee period:
A payment guarantee period of 20 years has been selected. If you die during the 
payment guarantee period your pension payments will continue until the end of that 
period.
Given the complexity of the required annuity I think it was incumbent on HW to ensure this illustration reflected Mr Ls wishes. But again, I cannot see that this happened. I cannot even 
see that Mr L saw this illustration before it was accepted by HW. I say this because there is a 
handwritten note on the illustration cover letter, most likely made by HW and dated the same 
day, 30 April 2018, saying Spoke to [Mr L] happy to proceed. This is then followed by an 
email to [X] on 1 May 2018 confirming Mr Ls authority to set up the annuity. So I think it 
most likely that the confirmation was sent without Mr L seeing the illustration. As this is most 
likely the case it was therefore essential that HW, as his financial advisers, ensured it was 
set up to accurately reflect his wishes.
[X] then, on 3 May 2018, sent the annuity policy to HW. This again set out the details of Mr L 
and that Mrs L was named as his dependent. It set out how much the annuity would pay 
monthly, and then included the following:
Dependants Annuity: 100.00% of your annuity payable to the Dependant named 
above. Payment will commence at the later of the end of the Guaranteed Minimum 
Payment Period and the next Annuity Instalment Date after your death
I can see it was shown that Mrs Ls spouses pension would only commence at the 
conclusion of the guarantee period. And there was no mention of who would receive the 
payments prior to this point. I think that had HW been diligent in checking the policy 
document carefully, this apparent anomaly would likely have been picked up, and it is likely 
that even at this late stage, the required changes couldve been made to alter the policy to 
reflect Mr Ls wishes. 
HW were Mr Ls financial advisers, and advised him to set up this annuity. HW were paid 
£4,656 for this advice and for facilitating the purchase of this annuity. In effect HW sourced 
the policy, advised Mr L to take it, and then applied for it on his behalf. Mr L was entitled to 
rely on HW, as his professional paid advisers, to act fairly and in his best interests with due 
skill, care and diligence. And I cant see HW has done this. HW initially submitted an 
application for an annuity based on terms which were contrary to Mr Ls wishes, and then 
failed, on two occasions, to identify the error in the way it had been set up.  
It is for all of the reasons above that I think that HW are responsible for Mrs L not receiving 
the annuity payments following Mr Ls death, for the duration of the guarantee period
Mrs L accepted my provisional decision, but HW did not. It maintained that it should not be 
held responsible for the annuity not being paid to Mrs L. 
HW said, in summary, there was a fundamental conflict between the outcome reached by 
the Investigator in the complaint against [X] and my provisional decision. It also maintained 
that the outcome of the complaint against [X] was inconsistent with our Services previous 
approach in resolving complaints of this nature. HW also said it felt there had been 
procedural unfairness in how the complaints against [X] and itself had been handled, and 
that both should be the subject of an Ombudsmans review and final decision. HW 
maintained that a fair and reasonable outcome, given that I had concluded that Mrs L was 
the intended recipient of the benefits for the guarantee period, would be for [X] to be directed 
to pay the benefits to Mrs L.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that I have sufficient evidence to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
case. I have also reconsidered everything in the light of HWs responses to my provisional decision. And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Ill 
explain.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs L took retirement advice from HW. As a result 
of this advice, it was agreed that Mr L should purchase an annuity from [X], set up in a 
particular way. This would mean that should Mr L die during the 20-year guarantee period, 
the annuity payments would be paid to Mrs L. Should Mrs L also die during the guarantee 
period, then the remaining payments should go to Mr Ls daughter, Mrs T. 
However, when Mr L completed the application form, he named Mrs L as his dependent, and 
Mrs T as his beneficiary. This meant that upon his death the remaining annuity payments in 
the guarantee period would go to Mrs T.
But Mr L engaged HW as his financial advisers. HW were responsible for submitting the 
application form on behalf of Mr L, and he was paying HW for this service. So it was HWs 
responsibility to ensure that the application form submitted on behalf of Mr L was correct and 
reflected his wishes. Im satisfied that had HW checked the application form properly it would 
have identified a conflict between Mr Ls wishes, and what hed entered on the form. 
HW has not presented any evidence to show that it used the professional knowledge and 
skills, or demonstrating it had applied the due diligence, all of which Mr L had engaged HW 
to do when it came to advice and the application process. I am satisfied Mr L would have 
expected to be able to rely on HW when it came to his annuity being set up in-line with his 
objectives, and this includes checking paperwork completed and submitted, and reviewing 
the terms of the product once set up. Nor has HW persuaded me it would be reasonable to 
conclude that HW wouldnt have been able to identify that the annuity had been set up 
incorrectly when it checked the policy documents both before and after it was set up by [X].
So, in HW submitting the incorrectly completed annuity application form on Mr Ls behalf, its 
reasonable to conclude it didnt provide the service it ought to have done. This means it 
didnt treat Mr L fairly. As such HW is responsible for the annuity being set up in the way that 
it has been. And so it follows that HW are responsible for Mrs L not receiving the guarantee-
period annuity payments.
I appreciate HW continue to think [X] ought to be held responsible and liable to redress loss 
here. It will be a matter for HW if it chooses to pursue any other party elsewhere in respect of 
liability. I am satisfied my decision reflects my thinking on the facts of the complaint I have 
been considering.
I also understand HW thinks there has been procedural unfairness in the way this Service 
has dealt with the complaints originally referred here. I am satisfied we have done what we 
are required to do by way of the rules under which we operate when it comes to considering 
each case referred to us.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for HW to put Mrs L as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for HWs error.
Past loss.
Had HW ensured Mr Ls annuity had been set up in accordance with his wishes, Mrs L would 
have been in receipt of £1,389.48 monthly annuity payments following the date of his death. 
These payments would have been subject to income tax at Mrs Ls marginal rate  assumed 
to be 20%. In order to redress this loss, HW should calculate the total amount Mrs L ought to have received from the annuity payments, from the first payment after Mr Ls death, until the 
date of settlement. This amount should be paid to Mrs L as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for the income tax that would otherwise have been paid. I cannot 
be sure how much of the annuity payments would have been taxable income, but think a fair 
approximation would be for there to be an overall reduction of 15%, to take into account 
Mrs Ls assumed tax-free personal allowance. As Mrs L has been deprived of these 
payments, each should have 8% simple interest added, calculated from the date it should 
have been paid, until the date of settlement. 
Future loss.
Had the annuity been applied for and set up in accordance with Mr Ls wishes, Mrs L would 
receive the monthly £1,389.48 annuity payments until the conclusion of the 20-year 
guarantee period, or her death, whichever occurred sooner. So in order to redress this future 
loss, HW should purchase for Mrs L an annuity which would provide her an income of an 
equivalent amount, with level escalation and paid monthly in advance. This annuity should 
have a fixed term ending at the conclusion of the guarantee period. This would need to take 
into account Mrs Ls personal circumstances at the time of the quote.
Where I consider that the total fair compensation is worth an amount that might exceed 
£170,000 (not including any interest) I may only recommend that the business pays the 
balance.
My final decision
Given the award limits available to me, I require Howard Wright Ltd to pay redress for 
Mrs Ls past loss as calculated above, and to require it to purchase an annuity for her, up to 
a total value of £170,000 (any interest payments should not be taken into account.)
Recommendation: If the total cost of the future annuity, plus the past loss calculation (not 
including interest added) exceeds £170,000 I recommend Howard Wright Ltd purchase the 
annuity to the full value required to provide Mrs L the monthly annuity income of £1,389.48. 
If Mrs L accepts my determination, the total cost of the past loss and future annuity, up to a 
total of £170,000 (not including interest) is binding on Howard Wright Ltd. My 
recommendation above is not binding on Howard Wright Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mrs L 
can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation 
owing to her after the past loss calculation and annuity (up to a total value of £170,000 not 
including interest) has been paid. Mrs L may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman