DRN-3585355
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Miss B took out with TSB Bank plc to buy a property. 
Miss B is unhappy that the valuation commissioned by TSB before agreeing to lend the 
money failed to identify a structural fault that Miss B says makes the property unsafe for her 
and her child to inhabit.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss B and TSB. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss B applied for the mortgage with TSB on the advice and recommendation of a third party 
intermediary Ill call F. TSB was asked to arrange a valuation, and it did this by instructing a 
firm Ill call C. After receiving Cs valuation, TSB agreed to lend Miss B the money shed 
applied for, and the mortgage duly completed. After moving in, Miss B identified a serious 
structural defect; she complained to C and to TSB. Both have rejected the complaint they 
received; what Im dealing with here is the complaint against TSB. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
TSB isnt responsible for Miss B only asking for a standard valuation on the property she 
was intending to buy. If Miss B believes she should have been advised to have a more 
detailed examination of the property  i.e. one that may have revealed the defect - thats a 
matter for her to take up with F, assuming she has not already done so. If Miss B did that, 
and wasnt happy with what F said in response, she could then bring a separate complaint to 
us about the advice she received from F. But its not something for me to address here.
TSB arranged a valuation  the most basic form of property inspection that is intended solely 
for the lenders benefit  because that is what it was asked to do in the application it received 
from Miss B, via F. 
TSB had a duty to Miss B to ensure the valuation was carried out by someone who was 
suitably qualified. TSB instructed C, a surveying firm whose valuers are members of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. By doing that, TSB discharged its duty to Miss B in 
full. The effect of that is two-fold: 
firstly, it means TSB could reasonably rely on the content of the valuation when deciding 
whether the property was suitable security for the mortgage Miss B had applied for; and
TSB is not liable to Miss B for any alleged shortcomings there may have been in the 
valuation report.
I cant say one way or another whether there were possible shortcomings or factual 
inaccuracies in the valuation TSB obtained. This was the work of Cs valuer, not TSB. My 
remit doesnt extend to questioning the content of the report. What I would say is that the 
limited scope of the valuation was made clear in the report, where it said:
 This is not a building survey but it is a valuation for mortgage purposes. You must not 
assume that if defects are not mentioned in the report, all parts of the structure are free from 
defect, nor if some defects are mentioned, that there are no others. Moreover services have 
not been fully tested. It is highly recommended that you obtain your own full report from 
an independent surveyor to protect your own interests. 
(The emphasis in bold is mine.)
I dont know, and wont speculate on, how much of the reports contents Miss B read and 
assimilated, or the extent to which she discussed the valuations limited scope with F, the 
third party intermediary that was advising her in the transaction. But I am satisfied that 
Miss B was made aware of the valuations limited scope, and what she should do if she 
wanted to know more about the condition of the property she was proposing to buy. In the 
event she did not take any further steps in this regard, thats not TSBs fault.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Miss B. Thats a 
natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is 
here. Shes bought a house that she now feels is unsafe to live in. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required 
to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome. 
Its possible Miss B may find a remedy against a party other than TSB, although she should 
not infer from anything Ive said here that either F or C are at fault or have a case to answer. 
Ive dealt solely with TSBs role, and for the reasons set out above, it has done nothing wrong 
at all. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman