DRN-1328295
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about how Lepus Marketing Limited, trading as The PPI Team, dealt with 
potential claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) being made by the estates 
of his late mother and late step-father. 
What happened
Mr B is the executor for the estates of his late mother (Mrs B) and his late step-father (Mr C). 
He instructed Lepus to deal with potential PPI claims for both estates.
Mr B has complained that Lepus sent an incorrect Letter of Authority (LOA) to lender N, and 
this was rejected after the PPI deadline has passed. Because of this, Mr B has lost the 
opportunity to make this PPI claim.
Lepus offered Mr B £300 in resolution of his complaint, but he rejected this. Because of the 
amount of time this has been ongoing, Mr B would like Lepus to pay him half of the typical 
value of a PPI claim.
The investigator said Lepus had recognised theyd not provided the best service. She found 
that the paperwork they sent Mr B, and then sent to lender N, didnt clearly state Mr B was 
complaining on behalf of the estates of Mrs B and Mr C. Because lender N didnt tell Lepus 
they couldnt accept the LOA until after the PPI deadline, the estates have lost the 
opportunity to have any PPI claims considered.
There was no evidence that either Mrs B or Mr C had been sold PPI and, if they had, we 
cant speculate whether any claims wouldve been successful or not. So the investigator 
didnt think paying the value of a typical claim was appropriate. But she felt the £300 Lepus 
had offered was reasonable in the circumstances, as it compensated for the uncertainty of 
not knowing whether there were any valid PPI claims and whether these couldve been 
successful.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He says there are other claims still ongoing and, if 
the same has happened with these claims, then he feels the compensation should be 
increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lepus have provided their case notes which show they initially sent the LOAs for Mr B to 
complete in January 2018. They chased him for the return of this and, in January 2019, sent 
him new documentation. Mr B returned the LOA in February 2019.Ive seen a copy of the LOA Mr B completed on behalf of Mrs B and Mr C in February 2019. 
The applicants details were pre-printed on the LOA by Lepus. This LOA was signed by Mr B 
but it doesnt mention that either Mrs B or Mr C are deceased. Nor does it mention that Mr B 
was acting as an executor for both Mrs B and Mr C.
If the claim was for Mrs B and Mr C, then the LOA shouldve shown both of their names. Mr 
B would then have signed this as the executor to the estates. So, while I cant hold Lepus 
responsible for the claims not progressing in 2018  they didnt have the paperwork back 
from Mr B; they shouldve sent him an LOA that correctly reflected the claim being made.
Lepus sent Mr B a new LOA for completion in February 2019, because of incorrects on the 
one hed already returned. The case notes show that they chased Mr B for the return of the 
second LOA, but they didnt receive this back until early July 2019.
Ive also seen a copy of the second LOA. Mr B completed this on behalf of Mrs B and signed 
it on 29 June 2019. Again, the applicants details were pre-printed on the LOA and doesnt 
mention that Mrs B is deceased. Nor does it mention that Mr B was acting as her executor.
I also cant hold Lepus responsible for the delay in the second LOA being returned. But I can 
hold them responsible for the LOA not correctly reflecting the situation. Lepus sent this LOA 
to lender N shortly after receipt and chased for an update on the claim before the deadline 
for new PPI claims expired on 29 August 2019. But lender N didnt respond until 12 
September 2019, when they rejected the LOA as incorrect. Lender N have said that the 
claim cannot now be considered.
Lepus acted reasonably by submitted the claim ahead of the PPI deadline, and chasing for a 
response. They cant be held responsible for the time it took for lender N to reject the LOA, 
but they are responsible for the LOA being incorrect in the first place. But I feel the £300 
Lepus have offered is reasonable for this error - it compensates for the uncertainty of not 
knowing whether there were any valid PPI claims and whether these couldve been 
successful. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Mr B has also raised the issue of the other claims, and hes concerned therell be problems 
with these as well. Lepus have confirmed theres only one other claim still ongoing. If this is 
rejected because of an invalid LOA, or for any other reason, then this will need to be treated 
as a separate complaint. My decision is only concerned with the claims against lender N.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Lepus Marketing 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, as executor 
for the estates of Mrs B and Mr C, to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman