DRN-1819997
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC converted its overdraft into a 
loan causing it financial difficulties. It then froze its current account without notice, cancelling 
its direct debits and blocking its debit card.
What happened
Barclays agreed to provide P with a £50,000 overdraft facility in May 2016 which was due to 
be cancelled in October 2016. At that stage, the bank agreed to extend the overdraft for a 
further six months. The overdraft renewal letter clearly set out that the overdraft would be 
cancelled on 6 April 2017.
P couldnt repay the overdraft, which it had used heavily, so Barclays agreed to restructure 
the borrowing onto a loan account. 
Barclays says that P missed making repayments to the loan and in March 2019 it demanded 
repayment in full. It also froze Ps current account to stop the company increasing its 
indebtedness. Barclays did accept that it had provided some conflicting information to P, for 
which it apologised and offered to pay £150.
Our investigator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Barclays was 
entitled to take the decision to convert the overdraft to a loan as this meant that the debt 
would gradually reduce. She also thought that as P had missed some repayments to the 
loan the bank hadnt made a mistake in making formal demand for full repayment or 
stopping the ongoing use of Ps bank account. 
P didnt agree with the investigators view. It said, in summary, that it couldnt access its 
accounts and wasnt given any notice about this, wasnt provided with statements, was 
prevented from making any repayments to the loan and the bank had recorded its address 
incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loan Account
Barclays agreed an overdraft facility for P in May 2016 to be repaid in October 2016. It then 
agreed to renew the overdraft for a further six months for full repayment on or before 6 April 
2017. Im satisfied that the conditions of the overdraft were clearly set out in the banks letter 
to P dated 12 October 2016. Specifically, as a special condition, Barclays made it clear that 
the overdraft would be cancelled on 6 April 2017 and the limit set at zero.
Despite this, the account was some £48,000 overdrawn and a few days earlier Barclays had 
returned an item for over £4,500 as this would have taken the account in excess of its 
overdraft limit. It started to return other items unpaid from 10 April 2017. P says that Barclays 
didnt give it any notice that the overdraft limit would be cancelled. As Ive explained, the 
overdraft renewal letter was clear about the date of cancellation and if P couldnt repay it 
then I would have expected it to have contacted the bank to discuss a mutually acceptable 
way forward before it expired.
I see that P was in discussions with Barclays by 19 April 2017 about placing the overdraft 
onto a loan account. The bank sent out a loan agreement form on 6 May 2017, which P 
accepted two days later.
I understand that P thinks that Barclays should have allowed the overdraft to continue and 
that placing the debt onto a loan caused it financial difficulties. But I consider an overdraft is 
an on-demand facility, suitable for short term borrowing needs to ease pressure on working 
capital and as a backup for unexpected pressure. I find that over the 12 months that P had 
the overdraft facility the debt had been increasing, P was fully reliant on it and was paying 
interest and fees of in excess of £400 every month. 
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to agree to restructure the debt 
onto a loan account. This gave P the opportunity to gradually reduce the debt in a structured 
way.
Missed repayments
P missed making the monthly repayments to the loan account in June and December 2017, 
February and June 2018 and March 2019.
I have carefully reviewed all the repayments made to the loan. P agreed to pay an additional 
£185.31 per month to make up the arrears and in July 2018 it paid a lump sum of £2,000 into 
the account. It that made another repayment plan in November 2018 to repay an additional 
£150 per month over and above its contractual monthly repayment amount. 
P missed making the contractual repayment in March 2019. Following this missed payment 
Barclays sent a letter to demand the full repayment of the loan. Barclays suggests P was 
deeply in arrears at that point. I have looked carefully at the payments P had made since the 
start of the loan and this shows that, when Barclays made demand, P was in arrears more 
than one months contractual repayment. It had also failed to keep to the additional 
repayment plan it had agreed and even though it paid a further £100 into the account in April 
2019 it remained over £1,000 in arrears.
The terms and conditions of the loan facility allow Barclays to make demand for repayment if 
the borrower does not make a repayment on the due date. P had breached the terms of its 
loan account a few times, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to issue formal 
demand.
Following the demand letter, P says that Barclays stopped it using its current account and 
removed its access to online banking and moved the loan to its debt recovery unit. I dont 
think Barclays made a mistake in doing this. P had defaulted on its loan account and had 
overdrawn its current account when Barclays made demand. It was seeking the full 
repayment of the amount P owed it and so needed to restrict access to the current accounts 
whilst it sought recovery of the business debts.
Barclays sent P a letter in April 2019 to say that its accounts were in order. I find that this 
letter related to its current accounts (accounts ending *1103 and *5281) and not that the loan 
account had been brought up to date.
Service Issues P has complained that, despite asking several times, Barclays has used an incorrect 
address for it on statements, the loan facility letter, the overdraft renewal letter and for 
making formal demand. I agree that Barclays has used a different road name for different 
pieces of communication. But Im satisfied that P received some of the incorrectly addressed 
items. I say this because the loan agreement was sent on 6 May 2017 and the directors 
signed it by way of acceptance of the loan conditions on 8 May 2017. I also consider that 
Barclays telephone P about its accounts and sent text messages about them, so Im 
satisfied that P was told about the arrears and it agreed a couple of repayment plans. 
Barclays also called P several times before it made demand, but P didnt return these calls. I 
find it sent the demand letter to Ps correct address and its registered office.
Barclays agrees that it has provided a poor level of service in respect of the incorrect 
address and because it wrongly issued letters to say the accounts were no longer being 
managed by its collections team. It has offered to pay £150 in compensation for this. I 
consider this to be fair. I simply leave it to P to decide whether, upon reflection, it now wishes 
to accept Barclays offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Karen Wharton
Ombudsman