DRN-3924425
The complaint
Mr F complains about Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd (Trinity Lane) declining a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
Trinity Lane are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Trinity Lane have accepted they are accountable for 
their appointed agents, in my decision, any reference to Trinity Lane should be interpreted 
as including the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr F and Trinity Lane. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr F had a motor insurance policy with Trinity Lane. He had arranged for his car to be 
booked in for body repair works at a third party business on 23 May 2022, who Ill refer to as 
B2 in this decision. Mr F had authorised a relative to leave the car with B2. On 26 May 
2022, B2 realised that the car was gone but couldnt locate contact details for Mr F to let him 
know. On 1 June 2022, Mr Fs partner called B2 for an update and was told that the car had 
been stolen. B2 said they couldnt locate contact details for Mr F to let him know.
Mr F notified Trinity Lane as he wanted to make a claim for theft. Trinity Lane declined the 
claim as they said loss or damage of an unattended car when the last person in charge of 
the car wasnt shown on the certificate of motor insurance was excluded under this policy.
Mr F raised a complaint and as he remained unhappy, he referred it to our Service for an 
independent review.
Our Investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld and that Trinity Lane pay Mr F 
£150 for any trouble or upset caused by how theyd dealt with things. As Trinity Lane didnt 
accept, the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I sent both parties a copy of my 
provisional findings recently and as the deadline for responses has passed  Ive not 
considered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Ive to reach my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence.
I note that Mr F tried to pursue his loss against B2, but has been unsuccessful. Im not 
considering the actions of B2 here. My decision is limited to how Trinity Lane have 
considered the claim Mr F made under his motor insurance policy with them.
Have Trinity Lane fairly and reasonably considered this claim, in line with the policy terms 
before declining it?
Trinity Lane have relied on the following policy exclusion to decline this claim:
Loss or damage when your vehicle is left unattended if the last person in charge of 
your vehicle before the loss or damage happened is not shown on your certificate of 
motor insurance as allowed to drive.
As outlined above, it seems that Mr Fs relative (with his permission) drove the car to B2 as 
Mr F was away for work. Mr F has said they parked the car, locked it and gave the keys to 
B2. Therefore, the last person in charge of the car was actually B2. I find it extremely 
unlikely that B2 would ever be able to be on Mr F s policy certificate - given the nature of 
their business. Therefore, it is unfair and unreasonable of Trinity Lane to decline the claim 
relying on the above exclusion.
Looking at the remainder of the policy terms, there is a specific term thats relevant here:
we will protect you against loss or damage while your vehicle is in the custody or 
control of:
 a motor garage or other similar business, not owned by you, which has your vehicle 
for maintenance, repairs, an MOT or servicing.
Trinity Lane have said that the above term is only applicable where the repairer/garage has 
their own insurance to protect against customer losses in a theft scenario. In a response to 
our Service, Trinity Lane initially said that theyd expect [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman] a customer to check that a garage was insured before using them. They later 
amended this to theyd hope a customer would check a garage was insured before using 
them. Whether Trinity Lane expected or hoped a customer would check if a garage has 
insurance before using them  I dont consider this reasonable at all and this type of loss 
could not have been foreseen by Mr F.
Trinity Lane have also said B2 had displayed signs confirming that customer vehicles were 
left there at their own risk. I note that Trinity Lane have said that if Mr F had drove the car to 
B2 himself and seen the signs referenced - he wouldnt have allowed it to be left there 
overnight. Ive placed very little weight on this statement as this is obviously with the benefit 
of hindsight and a natural, cautious reaction to having a car stolen.
I revert back to the policy terms here and cover is provided for loss or damage when a car 
is in the custody or control of a garage. So, even in a hypothetical scenario where Mr F 
checked whether or not B2 had their own insurance, realised they didnt and still chose to 
use B2, in my opinion that wouldnt have a material impact on this claim. I say this because 
the policy terms dont state that cover for this type of loss wont be provided where B2 isnt 
insured for customer losses. 
Therefore, I currently intend to find that Trinity Lane havent fairly considered this claim in 
line with the policy terms before declining it. They now need to consider the claim afresh, in 
line with the remaining policy terms. Any claim settlement should include 8% simple interest 
per annum and be calculated from the date Mr F first raised this claim to the date that any 
settlement amount is made.
How have Trinity Lane treated Mr F overall?
Our Investigator had recommended that Trinity Lane pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and upset caused by how theyd handled this claim. I currently intend to increase this award to £300.    
I make this increase having carefully considered the impact of Trinity Lanes actions on Mr F. 
I draw attention to the following impact statement:
Not only has it impacted with day to day tasks it has had a huge negative impact on 
my mental health due the current decision that has been made my [sic] Trinity Lane. I 
purchased this vehicle as an investment for the future of my family and I believe that 
my claim should be paid in full. I feel I should be compensated for the stress and 
anxiety that they have caused over the last 8 months refusing to acknowledge my 
valid claim.
Putting things right
Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd need to:
Consider the claim afresh, in line with the remaining policy terms. Any claim 
settlement should include 8% simple interest per annum and be calculated form the 
date Mr F first raised this claim to the date that any settlement amount is made; and
Pay £300 to recognise the avoidable trouble and upset their actions have caused   
Mr F.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd needs to follow my direction, as 
set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman