DRN-3332580
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms W arranged the mortgage and PPI in late 2004, which went live in March 2005. The 
policy was offered free for the first three months with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. After that time the cover was due to revert to unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms W says that she was led to believe that the purchase of PPI would assist with the 
mortgage application process and that was reinforced by the paperwork. 
Section 9 of the mortgage application form was about PPI and applicants were required to 
complete that section of the form. However, that section included the option for Ms W to 
decline PPI or to indicate that she was going to purchase a policy elsewhere. She has ticked 
the option to receive more information for accident, sickness and unemployment cover and 
to receive a quote.
The mortgage illustration, under the heading: Insurance, states: You are not required to 
take out any insurance through Coventry Building Society.
Ms W says that CBS strongly recommended insurance in the event of being unable to 
protect her mortgage repayments and associated costs. Im not persuaded that this 
constitutes undue pressure being applied by CBS, particularly as the wording about strongly 
recommending the policy appears on the mortgage illustration under the heading of Optional 
Insurance. 
I have no doubt that Ms W has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale was 
a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded somewhat. It could 
be that CBS was advising her that it would be a good idea for her to take out insurance, 
rather than saying she had to take it out.
From what we know of CBSs branch sales process, the PPI would normally have been 
presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. Overall, I consider that Ms W probably decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so. 
As CBS advised Ms W to buy the PPI, it needed to ensure that the policy met her needs. 
And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her. Ms W 
didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on if she was made unemployed. 
So it seems to me that she had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Ms W originally requested information about accident, sickness and unemployment cover 
but was then sold unemployment only cover. CBS sold Ms W an income protection policy at 
the same time. If the PPI cover had also included accident and sickness, that would have 
been duplicating the cover provided by the income protection policy. Therefore, it appears 
that CBS correctly assessed Ms Ws needs in selling her an unemployment only policy.
The cost, once the policy reverted to unemployment cover only, was £23.60 for a benefit of 
£800 per month. Ms W has said that this was overpriced as the policy would only pay out for 
a year at most. However, the policy would pay out for a maximum of 12 months per claim 
and a policyholder would be able to claim multiple times, subject to a requalification period. 
Im therefore not persuaded that the cost made the policy unsuitable.
CBS also had to provide Ms W with sufficient information for her to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for her. Ms W has told us that she received the 
quote very quickly, therefore she would have been aware of the cost at an early stage.
I dont know what was discussed during the meeting. I think that Ms W would have known 
something about the policy  that it would cover her mortgage repayments if she was made 
unemployed  because I dont think she would have bought it without knowing anything at all 
about it. Its possible that CBS could have provided more information about the PPI, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms W wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have 
been excluded under the policy. Therefore, as I consider that she had an interest in the PPI 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that more information would have caused her to change 
her mind. So Ms W is no worse off as a result of anything CBS may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing that CBS needs to do to put things right.
On another point, Ms W says that CBS has misinterpreted the Plevin judgement in relation to 
unfair commission. However, mortgage regulation came into effect on 31 October 2004 and 
all mortgages after that date, such as Ms Ws mortgage, are regulated mortgages to which 
the Plevin judgement does not apply. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman