DRN-3828554
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) didnt ensure his
retirement funds were invested in line with his instructions, resulting in a significant
proportion of the funds being held in a cash account.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 November 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I thought the firms offer was fair 
and reasonable were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant part of it below, and it 
forms part of this final decision. 
Copy of provisional decision
What happened
One of our investigators sent his assessment of the complaint to both parties on 21
September 2021. The background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why
the investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld were set out in that
assessment. But in summary, Mr L transferred four pensions into the LV Flexible
Transactions Account (FTA) in July 2014 through his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA).
The application form stated an amount of £112,500 was to be invested in the Balanced
Consensus Fund (Balanced Index s2) and £112,500 in the Protected Retirement Plan (PRP)
with £12,991 per annum income taken.
The income payment details section said 100% of any lump sum was to be taken from the
Balanced fund, and 53% income to be taken from that fund. An asterisk and hand-written
note said total income required £12,991, less income from PRP £6,091, income from fund
£6,900.
Mr Ls IFA sent a letter to LV on 4 July 2014 giving the approximate transfer value and
saying the income from the PRP was to be £6,091 and the income from the fund was to be
£6,900 per annum. The completed application forms were included.
An LV Internal movement authorisation form was signed by an LV representative on 29
August 2014 and authorised by a further LV representative on 30 August 2014. The
authoriser had ticked and signed check correct completion of documentation.
On 13 October 2014 Mr L signed a form to make an additional contribution of £18,750. His
IFA sent a letter to LV on 30 October 2014 which included Mr Ls cheque and completed
application forms.
On 10 November 2014, LVs internal check log detailed mistakes stating confirm
in e-mail that the monies will be invested in the insured funds unless advised otherwise and
confirm this to IFA also. A further note detailed now to be left on cash account. LV 
subsequently e-mailed the IFA saying the additional contribution had been applied and left in 
the SIPP bank account (it was subsequently discovered this was to an incorrect email 
address).
On 12 November 2014, an internal LV e-mail trail shows an LV staff member asking
another how the funds should be invested as the IFA hasnt confirmed this  with the
response being SIPP Bank account for now.
LV issued Mr L with confirmation that his plan was up and running on 24 November 2014, 
confirming tax-free cash of £63,501.26 had been paid and income of £1,082.59 would be 
paid monthly, before tax.
On 15 July 2015, LV issued a statement to Mr L. Several further statements were sent to Mr
L over time.
In 2019, Mr Ls new adviser alerted him that substantial funds with LV were held in a cash
account. Mr L subsequently raised a complaint.
LV apologised for what had happened, and accepted there had been mistakes. However it
said it was reasonable that after Mr L had received the statement in 2015, his IFA would
have undertaken its annual review with Mr L and the cash balance amount would have been
discussed. It noted Mr L had confirmed that he did have yearly reviews with his IFA. LV said
on further investigation it would have been given the opportunity to rectify this situation. So it
said it would calculate the position of the PRP fund and the additional contribution from
inception to the end of July 2015. The difference amounted to £806.65. LV also offered a
goodwill payment of £250. Mr L didnt accept the offer and the complaint was referred to this
Service.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to calculate the loss as at July 2015. In brief, he said it
was likely Mr L would only have considered the high-level overview provided in the July 2015
statement. And although Mr L could have had a conversation with the IFA about the cash
balances, there was no evidence that a conversation had taken place. He thought in any
event, the IFAs responsibilities were another matter, and that Mr Ls losses flowed from the
errors made by LV in the first place.
The investigator thought that the plans should have been set up correctly by LV and if there
was any uncertainty (as apparent from the internal communications) this should have been
clarified at the time. He thought it would have been reasonable for Mr L to have understood
the income would have been paid from the relevant funds as hed instructed in the
application form. And that the cause of the build-up of cash funds was due to LVs errors. So
he didnt think it was reasonable for LV to only calculate the position as at July 2015.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV has said that its system didnt allow for income to be paid from the two plans that it had
been instructed to provide it from in the application form. And the full amount of income was
paid by disinvesting from the balanced fund, whilst income from the PRP account was held
in the SIPP bank account in cash. This led to the build-up of cash. In my view LV should
reasonably have alerted Mr L and/or his adviser that it wasnt able to do what had been
requested. However LV has accepted it made an error and, as explained above, offered to
calculate any loss that Mr L has suffered as at July 2015.
LV has also acknowledged that it should have invested the gross contribution of £18,750 in
the same way as the initial investment when it received the application on 4 November 2014.But it said one of its advisers had spoked to the IFA on 11 November 2014 to check where
the money should be invested. And the IFA asked it to place the funds in the SIPP bank
account as it was still considering where to invest. LV said it e-mailed the IFA to confirm the
money had been put in the SIPP bank account but has acknowledged that this was sent to
the incorrect email address.
So its not in dispute that LV has made errors. What needs to be decided here is at what
date LV should calculate Mr Ls losses.
I contacted Mr L, through the investigator, explaining that I thought LV should calculate the
position as 12 October 2015. This was because when Mr L had complained to his IFA, the
IFA had said, amongst other things:
We did discuss risk at the annual review meeting on 12 October 2015, and, whilst I have no
specific record, I am sure that the holding of cash would have been discussed, as any
discussion would have been meaningless otherwise. As a result of the review meeting, we
did review the repositioning of your investment in the Balanced Index fund, and actioned
suggested changes, to produce further diversification in the investment strategy.
So the IFA said that it carried out a review. But not until October 2015. It would have
considered Mr Ls overall cash position  including the extra cash resulting from both the
issue of the incorrect source of payments, and the additional contribution been invested in
cash. I therefore considered October 2015 was the appropriate date to calculate
compensation.
However, on reflection, I now dont think thats right. I note the IFA also said, regarding the
single contribution:
My understanding of the investment strategy was that the single contribution should have
been invested in the Balanced Index fund as per the previous contribution investment
strategy, which appears in accord with the wording on the relevant page/section of the
application form.
I have to say that I did not pick this up until the annual review statement dated 14 July
2015.
The monies remained uninvested, and I apologise for not picking this up earlier. My
emphasis in bold.
The IFA went onto explain why he didnt think Mr L had lost out as a result of being invested
in cash (due to falling market values up to February 2016). And that Notwithstanding the
investment in the Protected Retirement Plan (PRP), holding some cash was commensurate
with your investment requirement, and indeed, as you had not withdrawn all of your
permitted tax free cash entitlement, the cash would be a safe haven for any future tax free
withdrawal, without the need to be withdrawing from investments in the markets, in a turn
down environment.
Indeed, in my email of the 10 October 2014, I stated that the Investment decision not overly
important  take your time.
On the one hand LV was responsible for the efficient administration of Mr Ls pension. As
explained above, it made some mistakes, and I agree it didnt provide an efficient level of
service to Mr L. Mr L has said he thinks LV should have insisted on confirmation in writing
from him that he was happy to leave the single payment contribution in cash. But I dont
think was required  it had spoken with the IFA, and this is consistent with the e-mailreferred to by the IFA dated 10 October 2014.
However on the other, the IFA also had its own responsibilities. It was involved in giving
instructions to LV and had ongoing input on the suitability of the investments. The IFA has
acknowledged that it was alerted to the cash position by the July 2015 statement. In my view
it should have been alerted to the cash position overall, and should have discussed it with Mr
L at that point rather than waiting until October 2015.
Mr L has said he has no recollection of a discussion about the particular issue taking place.
And that he wouldnt have instructed his IFA to leave that amount of money in cash; he said
it wasnt in accordance with his attitude to risk and investment strategy.
However either the IFA did have a discussion with Mr L who agreed to keep that level of
cash (which could be suitable for a number of reasons); it had a conversation, but Mr L
thinks it wasnt a suitable strategy to have that amount in cash; or no such conversation
took place. Either way, I think if Mr L doesnt agree with what the IFA said, or its actions at
the time, he needs to take that matter up with the IFA (or now FSCS).
LV has accepted that it made a mistake both in how income was paid and also in how the
additional contribution was invested. I think the mistake about the income was clearly
causative; if it resulted in losses they were caused by LVs error. I understand it accepts the
errors connected to the additional contribution were its failure to follow the original
instructions (and invest it in the same manner as the original funds). And in sending a
confirmation e-mail to the incorrect address. In my view its arguable whether those errors
caused the losses that Mr L has claimed (given the evidence that the IFA instructed LV to
hold the additional contribution money in cash at that time  albeit shortly after LV had
received the instructions).
LV offered to calculate loss as at July 2015  I understand taking into account what Mr Ls
position would have been assuming the income had been paid as instructed (even though it
wasnt able to do that in reality). And that the additional contribution had been invested as
aligned to the original funds (i.e. as initially intended). It also offered Mr L £250 as a goodwill
payment. In my view that offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Accordingly, my provisional decision was that LVs offer to calculate loss (on my 
understanding as set out above) was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I said I 
therefore intended to order that LV paid Mr L compensation in line with that offer.
I asked Mr L and LV to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr L said, in summary, that LV had accepted that it hadnt acted on his instructions, through 
his IFA, in administering the pension payments or when investing the single contribution. He 
said LV didnt need to seek the opinion of his IFA as to what it needed to do. He said LV 
should have instead put immediate measures in place to correct its mistakes and informed 
him of what had happened. He said if LV believed the money should be left in cash it should 
have insisted on written confirmation from him that it was ok, as it insisted on any request for 
a change in investment arrangements to be confirmed in writing.
Mr L said with regards to payment of his income, there doesnt appear to have been a clear 
point in time when LV informed the IFA, if it did, that its system didnt allow the payment 
structure the IFA had requested. He said LV should have taken remedial action or at least 
have requested written confirmation that he agreed what was happening.
The IFA had agreed LV had made mistakes, but didnt accept its own liability for the investment loss. The IFA accepted LV had made them aware of the issue with the single 
payment, but that they werent aware of the issue with the pension payments and had no 
clear record of what it had discussed with him. The IFA thought he might be better off as a 
result of the mistakes and resulting accumulation of cash, but it provided no evidence. It also 
thought the accumulation of cash was commensurate with his overly cautious attitude to risk.
Mr L said he had initially complained to the IFA about the mismanagement of his pension 
and had referred the matter to us. Our investigator didnt disagree with his arguments, but 
didnt think the IFA had caused his losses and so could not be held responsible. Given the 
investigators opinion, Mr L said he didnt refer his complaint against the IFA to an 
ombudsman.
Mr L said the e-mail from the IFA to him dated 10 October 2014 Id referred to in my 
provisional decision was general in nature. The IFA didnt receive the Completion Summary 
until after 13 November 2014. Mr L said I hadnt said whether I thought the IFA was liable for 
his loss (or part of). And that Id said he should take the matter up with the IFA (or now the 
FSCS). Hed already had a Final Response from the IFA denying responsibility. Mr L said he 
thought Id consider the complaints against the IFA and Liverpool Victoria in tandem.
Mr L summarised by saying it was clear that his pension plan had been mis-managed and 
hed suffered an investment loss as a result. He said both Liverpool Victoria and the IFA had 
played a role, hed issued complaints against both to the Ombudsman Service and he 
thought he would receive full compensation for his losses.
Liverpool Victoria said it had nothing further for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart for the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
In my view it was reasonable for LV to contact the IFA to check how the additional 
contribution should be invested in the circumstances, and act on its confirmation. I dont 
think it did anything wrong in doing so. I dont agree it needed to also get this confirmed with 
Mr L himself in writing; the IFA had been dealing with LV on Mr Ls behalf. In my experience 
that is quite normal where a pension provider is dealing with its client through their IFA.   
Whilst there might not have been a clear time when the IFA became aware of the problem 
with the income, the IFA has said it was alerted to the cash position of the additional 
contribution by the 14 July 2015 statement. In my view it ought reasonably to have been 
alerted to the cash position overall  including that resulting from the way that income was 
being paid. Any in any case by October 2015 at the time of the review.
If the IFA hadnt gone into liquidation I could have looked at Mr Ls complaint against it 
alongside his complaint against LV. However its no longer in a position to pay any award 
made against it; so any complaints about the role of the IFA now need to go to the FSCS. 
The FSCS will consider the matter in line with its own rules. The investigator can help Mr L if 
he wants to refer the matter to the FSCS.
My decision here is to consider whats fair and reasonable in respect of LVs role in the 
matter - I havent determined whether the IFA did anything wrong. Whether it did or not will 
depend on the circumstances of what went on between the IFA and Mr L. I realise that Mr L considers hes lost out as a result of being invested in cash. But being in cash isnt, in itself, 
unsuitable. Its not unusual for investors to move to cash in certain circumstances. So 
whether Mr Ls pension was mismanaged by the IFA, or the IFA did anything wrong, will 
depend on the circumstances. It may be that it was suitable for Mr L to have been in cash 
from July 2015 (including that part built up from the income), so it doesnt necessarily follow 
that Mr Ls pensions were mismanaged after July 2015. Or that Mr L made a loss as a result 
of it. I make no finding about it here as I havent considered either in detail. This decision is 
about the actions of LV and any losses reasonably flowing from them.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limiteds offer to calculate loss (on my understanding 
as set out in my provisional decision as above) was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited should calculate and pay 
compensation to Mr L in line with that offer as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman