DRN-2866232
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HL) didnt 
advise them or offer a consultation when they chose to liquidate their entire portfolios at the 
start of the financial crisis caused by the pandemic. 
What happened
On 23 March 2020 Mr and Mrs W contacted HL in order to sell the holdings they had in their 
portfolios. When asked why they were making this decision, they explained that it was due to 
the coronavirus pandemic and the effect this was having on the stock market. 
A few days later, Mr and Mrs W complained. In short:
They explained that in the past before selling they had always received a 
professional consultation to ensure that the option of selling was right for them. 
Therefore they expected to be offered this, given that they were looking to sell their 
entire portfolios.
They later spoke to someone who said that HL ought to have suggested liquidating 
only one of the portfolios. And furthermore, that HL wouldve been aware of the 
negotiations which were underway in the USA for an exceptional cash injection to 
stimulate the economy. They said that HL may have suggested they consider 
postponing selling by one or two days  and this wouldve at least given them an 
opportunity to reflect on their decision.
They were therefore very disappointed that none of this was forthcoming, and instead 
they were left to sell their holdings at a loss. 
HL considered their complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It acknowledged 
that on the day they called to liquidate their holdings they ought to have been offered a 
conversation with an adviser to discuss their reasons for selling. But it said that an adviser 
would not have tried to persuade them not to sell, or tried to help them time when to exit the 
market. It said that in their call they were clear about why they were selling, and that this was 
due to their tolerance for risk changing given the wider financial impact the pandemic was 
already having. For these reasons, HL concluded that an adviser would not have tried to 
convince them to do something different  and would not have recommended they delay 
their instruction due to market news, particularly as their investments were priced on a 
forward pricing basis. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into their complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, the investigator considered that whilst in the past HL may have proactively offered a 
consultation, there was nothing in their agreement with it that suggested it was required to 
do so at all times. In any event, he noted that Mr and Mrs W couldve requested the 
consultation or advice when they called, but didnt do so. 
The investigator nevertheless also considered whether a consultation wouldve made any 
difference, and concluded that it probably wouldnt have. He took into account the fact that 
during the call Mrs W was adamant that she wanted to sell and that they were convinced the 
markets would fall significantly. They were particularly concerned that should there be a 
significant drop in the market they wouldnt, given their age, have the possibility of recouping 
any losses. The investigator concluded that given these objectives, HL wouldnt have tried to 
recommend they do something different, nor would it have attempted to help them time the 
market in such a way. 
Overall the investigator thought that given how clear Mr and Mrs W were in relation to their 
instructions and the reasons underpinning why they were looking to sell, he didnt think it 
likely that they wouldve changed their mind, even if a consultation had been offered. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter  so the case 
was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs W made a very difficult decision at the start of the pandemic 
and one which, with the benefit of hindsight, has clearly crystallised some significant losses. 
I understand their complaint  a few days after making such an important decision they 
realised that HL had provided them no guidance or support. Given the wider circumstances, 
and the exceptional level of uncertainty, they feel this was unfair. 
But whilst I completely understand why Mr and Mrs W feel the way they do, Im afraid I dont 
have much to add to what the investigator has already said. Its important that I decide 
whats fair and reasonable without taking into account the hindsight I now have  and 
importantly, that I dont criticise HL for not doing something they werent obliged to do, or 
which likely wouldnt have made a difference anyway. 
In this case, Im satisfied HL werent obliged to offer advice or a consultation at the time 
Mr and Mrs W called to liquidate their portfolios. And in my view, Mr and Mrs W were clearly 
best placed, on the day, to decide whether this is a decision they were comfortable making 
of their own accord, or whether it was something they wanted additional guidance or advice 
on. Im not satisfied it would be fair to uphold this complaint on the basis of HL not 
proactively deciding to provide advice, when Mr and Mrs W were aware they couldve asked 
for it themselves at the time. 
In order to make my decision, Ive also listened to Mr and Mrs Ws phone call with HL. 
Having listened to it, Im not persuaded HL wouldve had any influence over Mr and Mrs Ws 
decision to liquidate everything. 
I say this primarily because the decision Mr and Mrs W were taking was based on their 
appetite for risk and their outlook for the future. This wasnt a case of them being confused 
about what was happening, or being unsure about the best option for them. They were clear 
on the phone that they wanted to sell all their investments. Furthermore, they were clear that 
this wasnt a decision theyd taken lightly  they had agonised over it themselves, and 
spoken to someone they knew, who had a financial background, about it. 
Theyd even discounted the option of selling only one portfolio because they were 
convinced, at the time, that the markets would continue to fall. And so given their objectives for the future, they wanted to immediately de-risk their 
portfolios in order to lock in whatever gains theyd made  or, as in the case of Mr Ws 
portfolio, stop any further losses. 
HL, and it has confirmed as much, wouldnt have sought to persuade them to hold on. Its 
not for a financial adviser to convince a customer to take more risk than they want to take. 
And I dont agree that HL wouldve somehow been privy to information that wouldve 
convinced Mr and Mrs W to hold on for a few more days. I say this because in March 2020, 
HL wouldnt have been able to know in advance how the markets would perform  and it 
wouldnt have tried to, because if it made the wrong call, Mr and Mrs W couldve made 
additional losses. As Ive said above, I have the benefit of hindsight which HL didnt have at 
the time. 
In my view, Mr and Mrs W understandably felt that given their overall circumstances, and the 
exceptional uncertainty which surrounded financial markets at the start of the pandemic, they 
needed to de-risk their portfolios as quickly as possible. Im not persuaded, on balance, that 
even if HL had offered a consultation with an adviser, he wouldve tried, or been successful, 
in recommending they take a different course of action. 
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to uphold this complaint or 
ask HL to pay any compensation. I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs W, but I hope theyll understand the reasons Ive reached it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman