DRN-2276145
The complaint
Mr C complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Gain Credit 
LLC, trading at the time as Lending Stream. 
He says Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly because the loans he was provided with 
caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr C took 2 loans from Lending Stream; in July 2015 and August 2016. 
Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Cs borrowing with Lending Stream, based on the information 
provided to us:
loan date taken date repaid amount termhighest 
repayment*
1 24/07/2015 18/12/2015 £300 174 days £150.60
2 30/08/2016 14/01/2017 £400 172 days £162.88
* the loans were to be repaid weekly with varying amounts, so Ive used highest combined amount 
the consumer would have to pay in a given month
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr C that they didnt 
think it should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Cs complaint.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay both the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought 
to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Cs complaint.
Lending Stream told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr C, 
including assessing his income, expenditure and net disposable income. It says that based 
on what was said, this information showed that Mr C would be able to make the loan 
repayments he was committing to on both occasions. 
Mr C declared his net income (after tax) as around £2,300 per month and he also provided 
details about his expenditure. I think its fair to say that from a starting point, this income 
level would appear to be supportive of the borrowing Mr C was seeking, not least because 
the amount borrowed was a fairly moderate sum. And so, I think for the first loan, 
considering what hed also said about his outgoings, Lending Stream would have concluded 
the lending was sustainable.
Given what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I also think it was 
reasonable in this case for Lending Stream to have relied on what it had been told by Mr C 
himself together with searching through some of Mr Cs financial profile, but certainly not all 
of it. 
I think that what was revealed by relying on these methods supported the view that the 
lending was sustainable for loan 1. So, whilst I accept what Mr C says about his wider 
financial situation of that time being very challenging, I dont think Lending Stream would 
have exposed this fully in the financial checks it carried out or in the information Mr C himself 
disclosed. I therefore dont uphold the complaint about loan number 1.
For the second loan, I note that this was advanced after a gap of around 8 months from Mr C 
paying off the first. So, I go back to the level of income Mr C said he had and his disclosures 
about his outgoings. This further loan was also for a relatively modest sum, so his overall 
indebtedness to Lending Stream wasnt lengthening or significantly increasing to an extent 
which would have shown it was unsustainable. I also return to the early relationship point, 
this being only his second loan.
As I say, I do accept that its possible that a deeper examination of Mr C financial profile 
could have revealed a reason not to lend. But I dont think that by loan 2 the situation had 
reached that stage. Lending Stream was justified, in my view, on relying on Mr Cs 
disclosures and financial checks at the more basic end of the spectrum. None of the bullet 
points Ive set out above therefore apply to his situation and so I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint either.
Im very sorry to disappoint him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont Gain Credit LLC to 
pay Mr C any compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman