DRN-3556005
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr E says that his account at Lloyds was closed in December 2017. But that he didnt find 
out about the marker registered at that time until 2021. He has had difficulty in accessing 
financial products.
Lloyds issued a final response to his complaint saying that it hadnt made a mistake. After  
Mr E had referred his complaint it told this service that it would be removing the marker as it 
didnt consider that the evidence if had met the criteria for CIFAS.
Our adjudicator recommended that Lloyds pay Mr E £250 for distress and inconvenience.  
Mr E had explained that for a period hed used a friends account to receive his salary which 
has been difficult. And this also caused him embarrassment with his employer. Although he 
said that the CIFAS marker had stopped him obtaining a mortgage hed not been able to 
provide evidence of that or of the additional bank charges he says were incurred.
Mr E didnt agree that the compensation was sufficient. He said that the starting point for 
getting a mortgage was having an account which he didnt have. The other bank account he 
had was closed about three years ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. And here Lloyds has accepted that it cant 
now support this with the evidence wed expect to see. So, I dont need to look at what 
happened in any detail. The concern was about a payment into Mr Es account. In 
discussion  with this service hes said that he thought that this was a mistake and he was 
waiting for Lloyds to contact him about it. He had also spent this money. Having looked at 
his bank statement I cant see any evidence that it was returned.
Mr E thought his difficultly with getting a bank account elsewhere was connected to issues 
with other identity documents. And when that was resolved and his applications for accounts 
at other financial businesses were still declined he found out about the marker and contacted 
Lloyds. I dont doubt he might have wanted to apply for a mortgage. But Id need some 
evidence from him about that. Id also need to be satisfied that the only reason that he 
couldnt have a mortgage was due to the CIFAS marker.
I can think about compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I take into account that 
he didnt seem to do anything about this money he wasnt expecting into his account. And 
Ive looked at our published guidelines about distress and inconvenience and reached my 
own judgement. Having done so I consider that the compensation recommended by our 
adjudicator of £250 is reasonable. I appreciate that Mr E wants more. Hes indicated he 
might pursue this in court and if he doesnt accept my decision hes free to do this subject to 
any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1) Remove the CIFAS fraud marker involved here.
2) Pay Mr E £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman