DRN-1657714
 
The complaint
The representatives of the estate of the late Mrs M complain about the level of service they 
received from TSB Bank plc when dealing with Mrs M's estate.
What happened
In mid 2019 Mrs M sadly passed away. Soon after some family members went to a branch of 
TSB to let them know and sort things out. Mr M, one of executors, is unhappy about how 
they were treated in the branch, and about how he was treated on a subsequent visit.
As well as this there were delays in freezing the account, problems with the death certificate, 
giving wrong information and there were issues with accessing money to pay for funeral 
costs. There were also some delays as TSB were dealing with the solicitors administering 
the estate.
Mr M complained to TSB who apologised for any upset that had been caused at what they 
know was a difficult time. They investigated and agreed that things hadn't happened as they 
should've done. As part of the investigation they spoke to the staff member in the branch 
and also reviewed the CCTV footage. To apologise for the overall service they offered a 
cheque for £100 to be passed to the executors of the estate. Mr M remained unhappy and 
brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened, and they empathised as there clearly 
problems. However, she explained because of our rules she couldn't make a 
compensation award to any of the executors personally.
Mr M replied saying he raised the complaint as a son because of the way his family had 
been treated, and not as executor of the estate. Our investigator again empathised saying 
that the treatment wasn't what they would expect at such an emotional time, but she was still 
unable to make an award. Mr M still wanted to pursue the complaint further saying 
TSB should be held accountable for their errors, as well as the emotional pain and distress 
caused. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules surrounding our jurisdiction can be complex, but a key consideration is that in 
order for a complainant to be able to bring a complaint to our service, they need to have a 
certain relationship with the business they want to complain about. 
We can consider a complaint from the estate of a deceased customer, provided the estate is 
represented, and thats where Mr M comes in. But hes not the complainant in his own right; 
hes the representative of the complainant. When Im deciding if TSB has done anything 
wrong here, I cant consider the impact any error might have had on Mr M personally.This isnt Mr Ms own complaint; its his late mothers, whose estate he and the other 
executors represent. It might seem an odd distinction to make, but its a necessary one.
We can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our rules, which 
are found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook. The rules that apply here are:
  DISP 2.7.1 says that we can only consider complaints brought by or on behalf of an 
eligible complainant 
 DISP 2.7.2 says A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a 
deceased person who would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised by 
the eligible complainant or authorised by law. It is immaterial whether the person authorised 
to act on behalf of an eligible complainant is himself an eligible complainant. 
Ive taken note of everything Mr M says about what happened and things did go wrong which 
was upsetting for him and his family. But, I still dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask TSB 
to pay any compensation for distress, trouble or upset;
 to the estate, as its not possible for an estate to suffer distress, trouble or upset. 
 or to its representatives in their own right, as they do not meet any of the criteria for an 
eligible complainant as set out in DISP 2.7.
I realise what happened has, and continues, to cause a lot of upset and distress. 
However, as our investigator has explained our service cant consider compensation for 
trouble and upset to an estate. Our rules wont allow it as I've explained above. And in many 
respects no amount of compensation could ever make up for the additional upset caused at 
such a difficult time. I do appreciate how much time and effort Mr M has spent trying to 
resolve this matter. But our service cant look at compensation for Mr Ms trouble as the 
account was in his late mothers name and the complaint was brought on behalf of her 
estate.
Ive no doubt this has been an unpleasant experience for Mr M, the other executors, and his 
family. Sadly, for the reasons outlined above, Ive no power to compensate him personally 
for that. I can award compensation to Mrs Ms estate if I believe it has suffered financial loss, 
which isn't the case here, but I cant award compensation to the estate for trouble or upset. 
TSB has offered the estate £100 for what happened, and I won't be asking them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman