DRN-3539246
The complaint
Mr K complains that IG Markets Limited (IG) has treated him unfairly. In particular Mr K says 
that IG incorrectly says he is not entitled to rights on shares he sold before the ex-date of a 
rights issue.
In order to put matters right Mr K wants IG to compensate him for the loss he says he has 
suffered as a result of its failure to allocate the rights he thinks he should have received.
What happened
Mr K says that on 08 September 2021, a company he holds shares in, had a rights issue 
with a Record Date for entitlement of Wednesday 08 September at 6pm, at which time I 
owned 7,803 [name of company] shares which were fully bought and paid and settled. The 
Ex-Date according to the rights issue was Monday 13 September at 8am. Having passed the 
Record Date, my 7,803 shares would have entitled me to 5,146 new share rights at £4.10 
each, which I would have been able to buy with cash or sell/trade out of. On Thursday 09 
September I sold 4,000 (of my 7,803) shares, with a T+2 settlement. 
The money from the sale is not immediately available to withdraw from my IG account 
because the settlement is not complete before T+2 time has elapsed. Therefore, the 7,803 
shares were held in my name on the Record Date and the Ex-Date, and [name of company] 
would have issued 5,146 new share rights against those 7,803 shares that I owned.
However, IG only gave 2,508 rights to my account, saying that I sold my shares too early, 
and thus denying me 2,638 additional new share rights. This is inconsistent with their own 
argument for why I can't withdraw cash from my account immediately after a sale. When I 
questioned them on this specific point, they eventually gave me their argument that the cash 
settles after 2 days but the shares are sold immediately. This is obviously incorrect as the 
settlement is, by definition, the time at which the ownership of the shares is swapped for the 
cash payment - they both have to settle simultaneously. 
IG did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said, in summary, that as Mr K had sold shares before 
the ex-date, he wasnt entitled to the terms on the shares he had sold. 
It also noted that Mr K had referred to a record date for the rights issue of 6pm on 8 
September 2021, this was set out in an RNS announcement. Mr K said that as he had not 
sold the 4,000 shares until 9 September 2021, he thought he would be entitled to receive the 
rights on the shares he had sold. IG explained that the ex-date for the rights issue was 13 
September 2021. It said it was not able to explain why the RNS issued by the company gave 
a record date of 6pm on 8 September 2021, it said it thought this was misleading. However, 
it also noted that information provided by other third-party sources showed the record date 
as 14 September 2021, which was consistent with an ex-date of 13 September 2021.
Mr K did not accept IGs response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Having considered the issues Mr K had raised our investigator said she didnt think IG had 
acted incorrectly. She explained that as Mr K had sold shares before the ex-date for the 
rights issue, he wasnt entitled to the terms on the shares he had sold.
Mr K did not accept our investigators view. He reiterated his view that he remained the legal 
owner of shares he had sold during the (T+2) settlement period, so he felt he should have 
received the rights attached to the shares he had sold. Mr K said he felt it was a self-
evident and a basic principle that if legal transfer has not occurred then ownership has not 
transferred.
Mr K also said he had instructed for the shares to be sold at a time when the settlement 
would (and did) occur after all relevant dates had passed. As you stated separately, the 
settlement occurred at 08:14 on 13 September, which is after all relevant dates had passed 
(record date and ex-date). Therefore, alongside my comments about legal transfer of 
ownership, the ownership transferred on 13 September at 08:14 and therefore those were 
my shares at the relevant dates and times I believe therefore that the legal transfer of 
ownership had not occurred until after the relevant dates and times...
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think IG has acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill explain why.
It appears there may be a genuine misunderstanding on Mr Ks part in relation to the shares 
he sold. Mr K says he believes that he remained the legal owner of shares he had sold until 
settlement and therefore should be entitled to any rights attached to the shares, during the 
settlement period.
IGs terms and conditions set out:
4. DEALING SERVICES
(8) Each Instruction to Deal or Transaction entered into by you will be binding on you 
notwithstanding that by entering into the Instruction to Deal or Transaction, as applicable, 
you may have exceeded any limit applicable to you or in respect of your dealings with us. 
(bold is my emphasis)
Mr K entered into a binding agreement to sell 4,000 shares in the company on 9 September 
2021. 
The RNS announcement, issued by the business Mr K held shares in, set out the timetable 
for the Rights Issue. In particular, I note that it set out:
8:00 a.m. on Monday 13 September 2021 - Admission and dealings in the New Shares, nil 
paid, commence on the LSE and Existing Shares marked ex-rights
As the shares were not marked ex-rights until 8am on 13 September 2021, the shares Mr K 
sold on 9 September 2021, were sold with the rights attached. I cannot reasonably agree 
with Mr Ks position that he sold the shares on 9 September 2021 but was entitled to retain 
the rights attached to the shares he had sold.
I note that Mr K has referred to an RNS announcement issued by the company at 07:25 a.m. 
on 9 September 2021. In this RNS it set out in an indicative summary timetable:
Record date for entitlements under Rights Issue 6:00pm on Wednesday 8 September 2021Mr K says that in view of this he thinks when he sold 4,000 shares on Thursday 9 September 
2021, he was selling them ex-rights and is entitled to receive the rights attached to the 
shares he sold.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ks position, and I can see how this statement in the RNS 
announcement may have caused confusion. But I must take into account that the RNS 
announcement also set out:
IMPORTANT NOTICES
This announcement has been issued by and is the sole responsibility of the Company. This 
announcement is not a prospectus but an advertisement and investors should not acquire 
any nil paid rights, fully paid rights or new ordinary shares referred to in this announcement 
except on the basis of the information contained in the prospectus expected to be approved 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK and published by the Company in connection 
with the Rights issue in due course. The information contained in this announcement is for 
background purposes only and does not purport to be full or complete. 
In view of this I cant reasonably hold IG responsible for any confusion caused by the 
information in the RNS announcement as it was the sole responsibility of the Company. If 
Mr K wishes to pursue his concern that the RNS announcement was misleading he may 
wish to raise this with the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Having carefully considered all the information available I am satisfied that Mr K entered a 
binding agreement to sell 4,000 shares before the ex-date, 08:00 on 13 September 2021. I 
have not seen anything that would allow me to safely find that Mr K was entitled to retain 
rights on shares after he had entered a binding agreement to sell them. As this is the case, I 
am satisfied that IG acted correctly when it did not credit Mr Ks account with the rights for 
the shares he sold on 9 September 2021.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman