DRN-3148151
The complaint
Mr F complained about the credit limit increases made on the card account he held with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard. He said it had made huge increases, from an 
initial limit of £1,200 to a limit of £11,600, and he thought this was irresponsible.
  
What happened
Mr F said he first took out the Barclaycard in around 2011 or 2012, and he had an initial limit
of only about £1,200. But over time this was increased to £11,600. He said that his
recollection was that the limit on the card was initially only £1,200. But then there were two
separate increases, taking the limit to £11,600. Mr F said he hadnt asked for those
increases, and it took the overall lending to around two-thirds of his annual salary.
Mr F shared information about the difficulties he was having at this point. He said his
spending increased as a result of those difficulties. For the past few years hed only been
able to make minimum repayments, but hed kept doing that to try to stop this lending from
affecting his credit history and hindering his chances of a mortgage in the future. Mr F said
that recently hed tried to increase his payments in a bid to clear the debt.
Mr F said Barclays had only recently reached out to him with information about several
charities offering advice regarding debt management. He said he had no idea these services
existed. And he said that when he complained to Barclays, it said his complaint was out of
date, but it offered £75 as a form of compensation.
Barclays said it could agree that the limit on Mr Fs account may have been set higher than
intended. It offered him £75 in compensation for this. But it said that the way in which hed
managed the account showed that the limit provided was not irresponsible.
Barclays said that the information it received when it opened this account had nothing to
suggest that Mr F was in financial difficulties. And it said that the products he held with other
lenders had been well maintained. It said it had then done internal checks and reviewed
credit file data before it increased any limits. Barclays said that Mr F had a good history of
making payments, and didnt incur any significant charges for late payment or going over his
limit. And it had no reason to suspect he was in financial difficulties.
Although Barclays has commented on what Mr Fs credit file said when the account was
opened, it also said that it hadnt actually looked back this far. Mr Fs account had been
opened before April 2014, but it had only looked back until then, as this was six years before
the complaint was raised. Barclays said it isnt required to deal with complaints about things
which happened more than six years before a complaint is made. Its since told us that it no
longer has access to the data from when Mr Fs account was first opened.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Barclays had
done sufficient checks when it made the two credit limit increases on this account.
Mr F didnt agree. He said that Barclays never carried out any credit checks at the time to
make sure he could afford the repayments. And Mr F said that if Barclays was making the
same decision now, then it wouldnt have given him such a large credit increase. He wanted
to know why it was ok then, but wouldnt be acceptable now.
Mr F wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I asked Barclays for some more information about this 
account. It has now confirmed that Mr F opened this account on 24 August 2012, and 
it had an initial credit limit of £9,400. There have only been two increases to the credit 
limit. On 22 December 2015, the limit was increased from £9,400 to £9,900. Then on 
19 July 2016, the limit was increased again from £9,900 to £11,700.
Mr F has said that he felt Barclays made a very large increase in his credit limit, 
because his recollection was that Barclays had only offered him an initial credit limit 
of around £1,200. But Barclays has shown our service evidence that, when it opened 
this credit card account for Mr F in 2012, it lent him a very much larger sum of money 
than Mr F remembers. The increases after this were relatively modest, at least in 
comparison to the initial lending.
I havent looked at this initial lending decision that Barclays made in 2012, as part of 
this complaint. Thats both because it doesnt seem to me that this is the complaint 
that Mr F has brought to our service, and because, in order to do that, Id first have to 
decide whether that complaint falls within our jurisdiction, or whether its too late now 
for Mr F to complain about this. I make no comment on that here. Our service can 
look into that separately for Mr F if he would like us to.
So I will just consider the credit limit increases Barclays made for Mr F. There were 
two, in December 2015, and in July 2016.
Mr F has told us how much he earned, which was around £13,000 in 2015 and 
around £15,000 in 2016. That means the amount Barclays had already decided it 
would lend him, before the first limit increase was made, was already around three 
quarters of his annual income. It was then over three quarters of his annual income, 
once the first increase was made. Although his income went up by a modest amount 
before the next limit increase, Mr Fs next limit increase in 2016 meant Barclays was 
still offering to lend him over three quarters of his annual income.
This does seem to me to be a large amount of unsecured debt. I think that means 
Barclays needed to do a little more in this case, to be sure that Mr F could pay this 
back sustainably.
Barclays has told us that it had obtained information on whether Mr B was likely to 
default, and it considered the risk of this to be low, both times that it offered him an 
increase. But the data Barclays has provided us with, suggests that it only 
considered a limited amount of information before it made these increases. That 
information doesnt seem to include anything on the extent of other credit 
commitments that Mr F had. And Barclays didnt ask Mr F about his financial position. 
It used only aggregated and estimated data to decide if he could afford the increases. 
In other words, when Barclays made these decisions, it didnt have information drawn 
directly from Mr F, such as what his income and expenditure was at the time.I dont think that Barclays has shown us that it could be confident that either of these 
limit increases were affordable for Mr F, or that Mr F could sustainably repay the 
lending it was making to him. I know these were not large percentage increases, but 
the existing lending was already a very significant commitment for someone on Mr 
Fs income, at the time when the increases were made. I think that Barclays 
shouldve obtained additional information about Mr Fs financial position, before it 
offered either of these limit increases.
If Barclays had done that, then Im not clear that it wouldve made these increases. I 
dont agree with Barclays that the usage of this card showed that there was no 
problem in practice. Mr Fs balance climbed steadily from the date of his second 
increase in 2016. By January 2017 he owed over £10,000. His account was then 
generally little used, and payments made were generally little more than the 
minimum. The account remained around Mr Fs credit limit, and consistently over 
£11,000, until June 2020. I dont think that this evidences that Mr F was able to repay 
this debt sustainably, at the time the limit increases were made.
For these reasons, I think that Barclays should refund onto Mr Fs card any interest 
or charges it has made for lending over the amount of £9,400 since 29 December 
2015. And it should pay Mr F £100 in compensation, to make up for its part in the 
problems hes experienced as a result of his debts.
I do think that Barclays responded appropriately when Mr F told it he was having 
difficulties with his payments. I havent been able to see that Barclays ought to have 
alerted Mr F to the existence of debt management support services before it did, so I 
make no additional award for that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays wrote to say that it had nothing to add, and it would await my final decision.
Mr F wrote to say that he accepted my provisional decision, and he had nothing further to 
add. But then Mr F wrote again, to say that hed just received a letter from Barclays saying 
that it intended to increase his credit limit from £11,700 to £12,700. Mr F said that he wanted 
me to see this, as it highlighted the irresponsible lending he initially complained about.
I can understand, given the history of Mr Fs complaint, why he would want me to see this 
letter, dated September 2021, which offers a further increase in his credit limit. I wont be 
dealing with it as part of this complaint though, and I will make no comment on this here. 
Thats partly because Barclays hasnt had a chance to respond to a complaint about this yet. 
But its also because I wouldnt want anything I say about this now to affect any future 
complaint that Mr F may wish to make about this further offer of increased lending. 
I think it will suffice to say that, for the lending which does fall within the scope of this 
decision, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC to refund onto Mr Fs card any interest or 
charges it has made for lending over the amount of £9,400 since 29 December 2015. And to 
pay Mr F £100 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman