DRN-2943707
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd chased her for a debt she says 
had already been settled. She also complains that Lantern have breached data protection 
rules.
What happened
Mrs L had an account with a third-party lender, who Ill refer to as the original lender. She 
says she made a complaint to this service about the original lender and that this service 
upheld the complaint in April 2018 - so she thought she no longer owed anything in relation 
to the debt. Mrs L says the debt should have been settled at this point. 
Later, Lantern contacted Mrs L to let her know that it was the new legal owners of the debt  
and let her know how much was left to pay. Mrs L contacted Lantern and explained that she 
didnt think she owed the debt anymore, she told Lantern to get in touch with the original 
lender for more information. She also told Lantern she could get in touch with this service for 
proof of the complaint she says was upheld.
Lantern let Mrs L know that the original lender didnt have any record of the complaint shed 
made. And the original lender still thought that there was a balance outstanding. But Lantern 
agreed to write off the debt anyway  so it wouldnt chase her for repayment. 
Mrs L complained to this service about what happened. She says that Lantern had breached 
data protection rules because it should have had information about her complaint that had 
been passed on from the original lender and it had obtained her personal information 
illegally. She says that she has been relentlessly contacted by Lantern for recovery of the 
debt it says she owed. And she is concerned that her credit file has been affected as a 
result.
In order to settle this complaint, Mrs L would like Lantern to apologise to her and 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she says this situation has caused her. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L. He explained that he hadnt obtained a copy of 
the previous complaint this service had looked at, but he said he didnt dispute what Mrs L 
was saying - in that the account should have been settled. He didnt think Lantern had done 
anything wrong by contacting Mrs L about the debt. While he acknowledged that its likely 
the account should be showing as settled, he didnt think this was as a result of something 
that Lantern had done wrong. 
Mrs L didnt agree with our investigator, but she didnt provide any additional points for 
consideration.
Because Mrs L didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen, I wont be upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Its clear that there has been some confusion over this debt. Lantern has bought a debt that 
Mrs L says ought to have been settled. But it seems that Lantern acted on information it 
received from the original lender when it purchased the debt, and so I dont find that it has 
done anything wrong when it contacted Mrs L about it. And I dont think it would be fair for 
me to hold Lantern responsible for acting on information it was given by the original lender 
and that it thought to be correct.
Once Lantern became aware that the debt might have been settled, it contacted the original 
lender to get more information about the complaint Mrs L says was upheld by this service. 
The original lender didnt have any record of the complaint, and so it asked Mrs L to provide 
more information about this. Mrs L didnt respond with this information either, but Lantern 
wrote off the debt anyway. So, it has recorded that Mrs L doesnt owe anything, and it will no 
longer chase her for repayment. 
I dont think Lantern could have done much more here. It acted promptly with the information 
it got from Mrs L, and it has written the debt off regardless so there hasnt been any financial 
loss to Mrs L. I dont find it unreasonable of Lantern to try and get more information from the 
original lender or Mrs L before it decided what to do with the outstanding balance  and 
based on the correspondence I have seen between the parties, I dont find that Lantern were 
relentless in communicating with Mrs L   it seems Lantern were simply trying to get to the 
bottom of the problem.
I have seen a copy of the letter this service sent to Mrs L in April 2018, about her complaint 
against the original lender. The complaint, as Mrs L has confirmed, was upheld, and the 
letter explained how much was due to be repaid to Mrs L. But the letter doesnt comment on 
whether or not that would still leave Mrs L with an outstanding balance to pay. 
Even if there wasnt anything more left for Mrs L to pay, I dont find the fact that the account 
wasnt showing as settled was as a result of something Lantern has done wrong  it would 
have been up to the original lender to ensure that the information it recorded about Mrs Ls 
account was up to date.
I can see that Mrs L has some concerns over the information that she thinks might be 
reported about this debt to the credit reference agencies. But I havent seen anything that 
makes me think her credit file has been impacted  and Mrs L hasnt sent this service 
anything to support this. So I dont find that Lantern has done anything wrong here. I know 
Mrs L thinks that Lantern has breached data protection legislation too. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that it has done this either.
While I appreciate Mrs L might have been inconvenienced by having to communicate with 
Lantern to get the issue resolved, I dont find that this inconvenience has come about as a 
result of something Lantern has done wrong. So I wont be asking Lantern to do anything 
more for Mrs L.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman