DRN-2158794
The complaint
Mr N  has complained about what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has done to put 
things right following his complaint that it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr N complained that RBS mis-sold PPI alongside two loans. RBS investigated Mr Ns 
complaints and, in October 2019, wrote to Mr N to say it was prepared to uphold them.
For one of the loans, RBS worked out its offer would be £678.48. For the other, its offer 
would be £927.64. Mr N signed and returned two acceptance forms, saying he wished to 
accept RBSs offers.
But Mr N had previously entered a protected trust deed. This is an alternative to bankruptcy 
under Scots law which allows a person facing insolvency to reach a voluntary arrangement 
with their creditors. The trust deed meant that Mr N didnt need to repay everything hed 
owed RBS. RBS says that a year after Mr N entered the trust deed, it closed his accounts 
with £9,444.47 left unpaid. And so RBS wants to use the compensation for the mis-sold PPI 
to reduce this balance.
Mr N doesnt think this is right. He says he fully completed the trust deed to repay his debts. 
Hes also unhappy that RBS didnt tell him this was a possibility when he first complained in 
2019.
An adjudicator looked at this and thought that what RBS had done was fair.
Mr N didnt agree. He asks why the PPI didnt cover his loan to repay the debt rather than 
him having to enter a trust deed. And he says hes complained about PPI to other 
businesses  and these businesses have paid him.
As the adjudicator could not resolve matters informally, the complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
RBS has agreed it shouldnt have sold the policy. And Mr N agreed with the overall figure 
RBS reached in its offer of compensation. As such, the only question remaining for me to 
decide is whether its fair for RBS to pay the compensation its worked out towards the 
balance that was left unpaid after Mr N entered his trust deed.
Here the relevant law is Scots law. There have been a number of recent court cases looking 
at what happens following the termination of a trust deed.
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court 
held that following the completion of that trust deed, the debtor was discharged from his 
debts. In that case, PPI compensation was paid to the consumer rather than to the 
discharged former trustee of the estate for the benefit of the other creditors.
And following this reasoning, the Inner House of the Court of Session concluded  in 
Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56  that a business couldnt use the 
consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged when the 
trust deed came to an end: there was no debt to set-off.
However, following this judgment the business sought instead to set aside the discharge of 
the debtors trust deed. In Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106, the 
Outer House of the Court of Session said that if the trustee made a mistake (a material or 
substantial error), then the court could set aside the consumers discharge. And the failure 
by the trustee to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the consumers creditors was 
clearly a mistake: if the trustee had known about the PPI claims, it was inconceivable that 
the trustee would have granted the debtors discharge until that claim was realised as an 
asset for the benefit of the debtors creditors. And as such, the remedy sought by the 
business would normally be granted by the court as a matter of course.
That said, reduction is a discretionary remedy. The court may withhold the remedy in 
exceptional circumstances, when there is some very cogent reason for doing so which 
would make it inconvenient and unjust to grant reduction. In that particular case, the court 
concluded it would be unduly harsh on the consumer to set aside the discharge. This took 
into account a number of factors  including the time since the discharge, the impact the 
litigation had had on the debtor, and the size of the compensation compared to the legal fees 
likely to have been incurred.
Ive thought about all of this when looking at Mr Ns complaint.
Given what Ive said, and assuming the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as in this case, a court wouldnt allow RBS to set the PPI compensation against the 
amount left following the trust deed unless the court first set aside Mr Ns discharge from his 
trust deed. The court might decide not to grant this.
However, while I have taken the law into account, I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair for RBS to use Mr Ns compensation to repay the money left unpaid when his 
trust deed came to an end. 
RBS has worked out that the compensation for mis-selling PPI would come to £1,606.12. 
But based on what Ive seen, Mr N had balances of £9,444.47 when RBS closed his 
accounts following his trust deed. This is money that, following the trust deed, Mr N will 
never need to pay back. RBS cannot chase him for this money. I dont think it would be fair 
to make RBS pay Mr N this money directly when he didnt need to repay significantly more.
Further, where I uphold a complaint about the sale of PPI, the redress I award is intended to 
put the customer, as far as possible, in the position theyd be if theyd never bought the 
policy. If Mr N hadnt bought the policy, I think its likely hed still have ended up in a trust 
deed. But hed have owed less. And thats the position RBSs offer puts him in.Im also mindful that if Mr Ns trustee had pursued these PPI claims in 2001, RBS would 
have been entitled to use the compensation to reduce what Mr N owed it. Or the funds could 
have been paid to the trustee for the benefit of Mr Ns other creditors. He would not have 
received these funds himself.
Ive considered the further points Mr N has raised. But these dont change my conclusions. 
While other businesses may have chosen to pay Mr N compensation directly, that doesnt 
change what I think is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. And while I note what Mr N 
has said about the PPI not helping him when he needed it, RBS has agreed that it shouldnt 
have sold him the policy in the first place  which means he wouldnt have been able to 
claim. Finally, I recognise Mr N is unhappy that he didnt know sooner that RBS would use 
his compensation this way. But Mr N knew hed been in a trust deed  and I see RBSs offer 
explained that if hed been in a trust deed this might affect the way itd pay his 
compensation. 
In all the circumstances, I think what RBS has done is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided its fair for Royal Bank of Scotland plc to set off the 
compensation for mis-selling PPI against the amount Mr N still owed Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc following his trust deed. I dont make a further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman