DRN-3027681
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to LV, this includes its agents and claims handlers.   
What happened
In 2015, Miss C sustained a personal injury whilst abroad. She believed the hotel was at 
fault for the accident, so she made a claim under the legal expenses section of her travel 
insurance policy, to pursue legal action against them. 
A solicitor  who Ill refer to as L  was appointed to act for Miss C under the policy. They 
obtained reports from two medical experts on Miss Cs injuries, but she didnt agree with the 
conclusions they came too. She asked the policy to fund an MRI scan, but L said it wasnt 
proportionate to  so in 2019, Miss C raised a complaint to LV. 
LV sought advice from a barrister on whether it would be appropriate to fund an MRI scan. 
And the barrister agreed with L that it wasnt proportionate. Miss C had concerns about the 
barristers opinion, as theyd been instructed by L  who shed raised a complaint about. She 
felt there was a conflict and that LV shouldve asked another solicitor to instruct the barrister. 
But LV didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it was prepared to continue funding Miss Cs 
claim, but that it would have to be on the current medical evidence. It offered her freedom to 
choose her own solicitor to represent her in the claim going forward. 
In its complaint response, LV did acknowledge that it hadnt reviewed Miss Cs claim within 
the time scale it said it would, and subsequent emails from Miss C werent responded to. For 
this, it offered £225 compensation.   
As Miss C remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. She told us that 
since LVs complaint response, further issues had arisen. She said LV had told her not to go 
to the Legal Ombudsman, which caused her to be out of time to do so. And a further legal 
opinion had been sought, resulting in the rejection of her claim. 
We asked LV to look into the additional complaint points, and it issued a further complaint 
response. It didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Our investigator reviewed the full file, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied 
LV had acted in line with the policys terms and conditions. And she didnt think it had been 
unfair. In respect to the failings in its service, our investigator thought LVs offer of 
compensation was fair. She didnt recommend it do anything further.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I recognise the strength of feeling Miss C has for this matter, and I know this 
outcome will be disappointing to her. So Ill explain why.
Claim rejection
It is a requirement of Miss Cs policy that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding and that its proportionate to pursue. This means it must be more likely than not 
that the claim will be successful and the legal costs to pursue the claim dont exceed the 
amount in dispute.
These policy terms arent unusual, and we dont think theyre unfair. Court action can be 
expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely 
to succeed or that they will recover less than the legal costs theyd paid out. We wouldnt 
expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
So long as they have obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or factually 
incorrect. 
In Miss Cs case, LV were advised by L that the further medical evidence Miss C wanted to 
obtain was disproportionate. Due to the dispute, LV funded an independent opinion from a 
barrister. 
I think this was a fair way to resolve the dispute. I know Miss C is concerned about the 
instructions provided to counsel and that L were the ones to instruct them. But I cant see 
anything inappropriate with the way this has been handled. LV require a solicitor to instruct a 
barrister on its behalf. And as L already had the full file, asking them to instruct the barrister 
seems the quickest and most cost-effective way to do so. I dont agree there was a conflict 
of instruct  L merely passed the papers to counsel. And the barrister would be bound by 
their professional obligations to provide advice independently and without influence. 
The barrister was of the opinion that the costs of obtaining an MRI scan wasnt proportionate 
to the value of the claim. In light of this advice, LV said it wasnt prepared to fund it. I havent 
seen anything to suggest it was inappropriate for LV to rely on this advice, so I dont think 
they acted unfairly here. 
But as Miss C continued to disagree, LV obtained a further legal opinion from a solicitor  
who Ill refer to as T  that specialises in personal injury claims abroad. It was Ts advice that 
even without the costs of the scan, the costs of pursuing the claim altogether would outweigh 
the value of the claim. So T didnt think the claim was proportionate to pursue. 
Again, I havent seen anything to suggest that LV shouldnt have relied on this legal advice. I 
appreciate Miss C is disappointed by it  and she may well disagree with it. But I cant see 
that shes provided any conflicting legal opinion which confirms her claim is proportionate. 
So Im satisfied LV are entitled to rely on this legal advice, and that its subsequent rejection 
of Miss Cs claim was fair. 
Complaint to the Legal OmbudsmanMiss C raised a complaint to L regarding their advice and conduct on the claim. And in 
September 2019, L issued its complaint response giving Miss C six months to refer her 
complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. She says LV told her not to, causing her to be out of 
time. 
Having listened to the call Miss C had with LV in November 2019, its clear that she was 
discouraged against going to the Legal Ombudsman on the basis that it could stir things up 
and that things might take longer to sort out. It was also implied that a complaint to the 
Legal Ombudsman could cause a conflict of interest and that Miss C should look at the 
bigger picture. LV asked her to hold off until it had finished its investigation.
Im not aware of any reason why a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman would have any 
impact on LVs investigation into Miss Cs claim and complaint, nor would it cause a conflict 
of interest. So I dont think what LV said was accurate or appropriate here, and Miss C 
shouldnt have been deterred from escalating her complaint if thats the action she wanted to 
take.
That said, Miss C was provided with LVs position on her claim by December 2019. At that 
point, she still had three months to refer her complaint to the Legal Ombudsman and I cant 
see that theres anything which wouldve prevented her from doing so. As she didnt, I cant 
fairly conclude that it was LVs previous incorrect advice which meant she missed the 
opportunity to raise this to the Legal Ombudsman.
Customer service 
There does appear to have been some occasions when LV didnt respond to Miss Cs 
emails. In light of this, LV has offered £225 compensation for what went wrong. 
Ive no doubt that Miss C wouldve been caused some distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the unanswered emails. So I agree compensation is warranted here. And from what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied this is a fair offer, taking into account the impact these failings 
wouldve caused her. So Im not asking LV to do anything more.
    
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has offered to pay £225 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the failings in its customer service. I think this offer is 
fair for the reasons Ive explained. 
As such, my final decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay 
Miss C compensation of £225.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman