DRN-4256485
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a number of problems related to Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limiteds administration of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 July 2023.The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I intended to uphold it were set out in 
that decision. Ive re-produced the relevant parts of it below, and it forms part of this final 
decision. 
Provisional decision
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. He noted that Mr B had a number of
concerns which included:
Concerns about the way units in his SIPP were encashed to pay charges
Potential discrepancies in the value of his fund depending on whether he accessed 
the information via computer or phone app
The timing of investment decisions and encashments by the fund managers
Being sent notifications that related to other consumers
Inaccurate date of birth recorded for his spouse
Difficulties in establishing contact with appropriate departments within Aviva, 
specifically erroneous phone contact numbers and inadequate interactive voice 
response system
The level of information made available once his investments had been made
Inadequate handling of his complaints, apparent lack of ownership of the issues hed 
identified and Avivas failure to provide an adequate response to his complaint before 
giving referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Delays in applying his transferred-in funds to the investments hed selected.
The investigator said some of the issues that Mr B had complained about werent strictly
issues that he could consider, as they werent regulated activities; for example complaint
handling. The investigator explained that he could consider the impact that Avivas
administration of his pension had had on Mr B. The investigator said he thought it was clear
that Mr B felt that the Aviva proposition, particularly with respect to information provision and
application of platform charges, wasnt appropriate for his needs.
The investigator said Avivas use of an interactive voice response telephone system
was part of the operation of Avivas business and it had discretion to decide on its use.
He said the My Aviva application was offered to consumers on an as is basis. The
investigator said his understanding was that there were limits to the amount of
personalisation that could be included and the information available was limited. The
investigator explained that he couldnt tell Aviva to provide an enhanced level of service that
wouldnt be available to other customers holding the same products or investments.
The investigator noted that Mr B felt the terms and conditions didnt provide sufficient detail
about how the investment fund managers decided when to sell or buy assets or give
sufficient information on the date assets were encashed to pay fees. The investigator said he
was mindful that these issues could have been discussed with the financial adviser before
Mr B elected to transfer. He noted that Mr B hadnt complained about the advice to transfer
itself. The investigator said he didnt think that the terms and conditions were unfit for
purpose or had been drafted in a way intended to treat Mr B unfairly or differently to any
other customer.
The investigator thought Aviva had provided an adequate explanation about the date of birth
issue, and that it wasnt necessary to hold the date of birth for the purposes of a form of
nomination. He said that in any event, the data in question wasnt Mr Bs personal data, it
was his spouses, so he couldnt award anything to Mr B in respect of any potential breach of
data protection regulations.
The investigator also noted that some aspects of Mr Bs complaint were still under
investigation at the time he sent his assessment of it and that Mr B hadnt received what he
would consider a satisfactory answer. The investigator said it was evident that Mr B had
concerns about the robustness of the Aviva administration system, to the point where he
has lost confidence in Aviva as a provider. He said having listened to the relevant telephone
calls and read the evidence, he could understand why that was the case. He said it was
clear that the Aviva plan and associated provision of data didnt provide sufficiently detailed
information for Mr Bs needs. He said as he wasnt present at the meetings between Mr B
and the adviser he didnt know what might have been promised. However he thought it did
seem that Mr B was expecting a level of service that at present Aviva was unable to deliver.
And there was also a risk that Aviva might never be able to provide information in a format
acceptable to Mr B.
The investigator said that other than the time and effort spent by Mr B in raising his
complaints to Aviva, he hadnt defined any financial loss that had been caused by Avivas
accepted disappointing level of service. He said various Aviva staff had attempted to
answer some of Mr Bs questions, but their lack of consistency served only to raise more
queries on Mr Bs part.
The investigator thought that overall, the £250 offered by Aviva (Aviva later confirmed it was
£350) was broadly in line with the amount hed have recommended in response to the
various issues that Mr B had raised. However, he thought Mr B had lost confidence in
Avivas ability to administer his pension, and it would be reasonable in the circumstances for
Aviva to allow Mr B to extract himself from the contract and place his funds into an
arrangement that was able to meet his need for certainty and clarity of data.
The investigator recommended that, in addition to the payment already offered by Aviva to
cover trouble and upset, that Aviva should:
agree to refund the platform fees deducted
offer Mr B the opportunity to transfer his funds to another SIPP provider of his 
choosing, without charge or penalty, within three months of the date of settlement.He said Aviva could retain any fund management charges already taken.
Aviva responded to say that it accepted the investigators recommendations.
Mr B said he was willing to accept the investigators suggested outcome subject to
clarification and a satisfactory resolution to a number of issues details of which he provided.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to largely the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely
for the same reasons.
My role here is to assess what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And
where a firm has done something wrong, Im able to make awards for any financial losses
that arise from a firms failings and also for any distress and inconvenience caused. However
I have no powers to fine or punish firms. The upshot is that awards arent made purely
because a firm has done something wrong; they are made relative to the impact on a
customer of a firms failing(s).
Mr B has raised a number of issues about how Aviva has administered his SIPP. In the
main, and like the investigator, whilst I accept that they caused a degree of distress and
inconvenience they dont appear to have resulted in any financial losses to Mr B. I say in the
main, because Mr B has referred to two particular issues that appear related but that could
have caused him a financial loss. Its taken some time to determine whether he actually lost
out as result of those issues  and unfortunately its still not entirely clear.
Aviva has agreed to the investigators recommendation to re-imburse Mr B with some
charges. Aviva confirmed it had calculated those charges as £2,399 from the outset of the
plan to January 2023. It also agreed to allow Mr B to transfer to another arrangement within
a set period without penalty. And it confirmed it is willing to pay Mr B £350 for the distress
and inconvenience the matter had caused. In my view that is a fair and reasonable outcome
to the majority of the administration issues that Mr B has raised given Ive seen no evidence
that they resulted in any financial losses to Mr B. And that, when considered in the whole,
they caused a degree of distress and inconvenience to Mr B.
The two issues that appear to potentially have had a financial impact on Mr B relate to the
timings of investments. My understanding is these relate to the daily cut-off times for trading,
and the related delay in investing the original transfer values.
Aviva has provided evidence showing that it investigated the timing/delay in respect of one
of the transfers (£569,091) and that this resulted in a loss to Mr B of £208.84. It said it
credited this amount to Mr Bs account on 29 November 2022. Mr B has queried the source
of this information and whether this service agrees with the calculation.
We arent able to visit firms or audit their internal systems. And I dont think where the
information is derived from is material. Mr B has said My experience to date regarding this
matter is that no one in Aviva appears sufficiently interested, capable, knowledgeable,
competent, or accountable to take ownership of this. Whilst I understand Mr Bs suspicions,
ultimately its quite a simple exercise for Aviva to check the unit prices at the relevant dates, 
and Ive seen no reason to doubt the veracity of the calculation and Im satisfied its very 
likely to be correct.Mr B has referred to the second transfer value and said that Aviva hasnt assessed the
financial impact of delays in investing it. Mr B has said his understanding was that
transactions were executed on the same day if received before 3 pm. But that there was a
lead time between 30 July to 3 August 2021 between receipt internally of another transfer
value and its investment.
In Mr Bs e-mail to the firm dated 10 August 2021 he asked:
Why is there a lead time between 30/7 to 03/08 between receipt internally of my ex- (name
of scheme) pension and purchase of DAF 4/DAF 5 units with the funds (net of the advisory
fee)? There are no funds to clear.
In Mr Bs recent e-mail to us dated 27 June 2023 he said that in an e-mail from Aviva to him
dated 26 October 2021 it was stated that the pricing/cut off times error continued until
29/09/21.
Mr B went onto say:
Why has the above best pricing exercise, (applied to one of the two significant 
capital amounts I invested with Aviva), not been applied to the 2nd significant amount 
I invested with Aviva (£534,469.01) according to the transaction activity supplied by 
Aviva on their quarterly statement dated 30/10/21?
Aviva reports this 2nd significant amount as arriving on 18/09/21 and being invested 
on 19/09/21.
These dates fall within the window of the error reported by Aviva.
My understanding was that the £534,469 transfer value related to the same scheme as Mr B
was referring to in the 10 August e-mail - which said the transfer value was received on 30
July 2021. So its not entirely clear to me what transfer value was received on 30 July 2021
and what transfer value was received on 18 September 2021.
In its correspondence Aviva has acknowledged that cut off trading times for two of its funds
were incorrect. It said that a risk event had been raised and a best price exercise was
being carried out on all affected orders. However I do agree with Mr B that its not clear what
best price exercise has been carried out on either one or both of these other transfer
values, whether a loss was identified and what, if any action was necessary and carried out.
So I have addressed that in my provisional decision below.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Aviva has agreed to refund charges of £2,399 incurred from the outset of the plan to 
January 2023. I think that is fair and for an appropriate period. Its not clear to me 
whether Aviva has actually completed that refund yet, but if it hasnt it should arrange 
to do so if Mr B accepts a final decision.
Aviva has agreed to allow Mr B to transfer out of the plan without a charge to transfer 
or penalty. To clarify, that penalty free period should last for three months from the 
date we notify Aviva of Mr Bs acceptance of a final decision. To confirm to Mr B, if he 
doesnt transfer out Aviva still have to comply with the other elements of this award. 
Aviva has also agreed to pay Mr B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter. Again I think both of these are fair.
In order to ensure the other transfer values were correctly processed, I also intend to 
order Aviva carry out a best pricing exercise for the transfer values it received on 30 
July and 18 September 2021 (assuming two transfer values were received on those 
dates). It should provide details of the dates and times it received the transfer values, 
the dates invested and at what prices. It should also provide details of any 
losses/gains to Mr B if the values werent invested in line with the correct timescales 
(or an explanation of why a transfer value wasnt invested within those timescales if 
there was a reason for it). If a loss is identified it should pay such an amount into Mr 
Bs pension plan to make up for that loss.
Mr B has also said that he wants an apology from Aviva. I dont think a forced 
apology is very meaningful. So I will leave it for Aviva to apologise to Mr B  I dont 
intend to order it.
I asked Mr B and Aviva to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr B said, in summary, that the dates of the second significant transfer being received and 
invested were 18 August 2021 and 19 August 2021  rather than the 18 September and 19 
September dates Id referred to in my provisional decision.
He said to list the points in the "What Happened" section as being of equal importance was  
to underplay the seriousness of the potential financial impact of delays in applying 
transferred in funds. He said all the other points listed together with incidences outside the 
scope of the complaint provided input to the overall lack of control and accountability 
displayed by Aviva over its operations.
Mr B said he hasnt asked this service or Aviva to provide an enhanced level of service that 
wouldn't be available to other customers holding the same products or investments. He 
didnt agree with the statement regarding his expectation as to a level of service that at 
present Aviva was unable to deliver. Or that there was a risk that Aviva would never be able 
to provide information in a format acceptable to him.
Mr B said he didnt understand the selection of, or the criteria used, to settle on the cut-off 
point of January 2023 for the refund of platform fees charged. He said there had been no 
step change improvement in the quality of the "service" from that date onwards. And he had 
in fact suffered further experiences with the Aviva " service" (outside the scope of this 
investigation) since that date.
Mr B said if Aviva were ordered to carry out a "best pricing" exercise to identify and
correct two-year old potential errors, how could the "service" he was currently
being charged for on a monthly basis be deemed to be a "fit and proper" service? He said 
Avivas failure or refusal to have already carried out such a best pricing exercise, having
admitted to the errors, meant that the " service" provided continued to fail any
criteria set for a fair or reasonable test.
Aviva said it accepted the provisional decision. It agreed to pay compensation as set out in 
my provisional decision. And said a best pricing exercise had already been carried out which 
showed that only one transfer had been affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. 
As Mr B is aware, his complaint has been ongoing for some time, and I apologise for the 
time its taken to reach this stage. This final decision only covers the issues that Mr B 
originally raised and what the investigator considered as set out above. If we were to 
consider other subsequent issues that Mr B has had with the service offered by Aviva since, 
and he continued to have problems on an ongoing basis, it would be difficult to ever get the 
complaint resolved. The complaint handling rules also require Aviva to be given an 
opportunity to consider and respond to any additional complaints made itself , and before we 
can become involved. So as Ive said, this decision only covers the issues referred to above. 
On that basis I think the cut off date for the refund of fees is fair. And if Mr B has further 
complaints about the service provided he can raise them with Aviva in the first instance, and 
subsequently refer them to us if he isnt satisfied with its response. 
In listing the issues that Mr B had raised I didnt wish to underplay the potential financial 
impact of delays in applying transferred in funds. I agree with Mr B that the delay(s) could 
have had a significant financial impact. So clarification of whether it did have an actual 
impact was clearly important. Ive noted what Mr B has said about the relevant dates being 
18 and 19 August 2021.
Mr B has said he hasnt asked that Aviva provide an enhanced level of service that wouldn't 
be available to other customers holding the same products or investments. And didnt agree 
with the statement regarding his expectation as to a level of service that at present Aviva 
was unable to deliver, or that there was a risk that Aviva would never be able to provide 
information in a format acceptable to him. I accept this was merely the investigators 
thoughts on the matter, and clearly Mr B is in the best position to decide his own 
expectations and whether Aviva can provide an acceptable level of service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I order Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to: 
If it hasnt already done so, refund charges of £2,399 incurred from the outset of the 
plan to January 2023. I think that is fair and for an appropriate period. 
Aviva has agreed to allow Mr B to transfer out of the plan without a charge to transfer 
or penalty. To clarify, that penalty free period should last for three months from the 
date we notify Aviva of Mr Bs acceptance of this final decision. 
Pay Mr B £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter. 
In order to ensure the other transfer values were correctly processed, Aviva should 
carry out a best pricing exercise for the transfer values it received on 30 July and 18 
August 2021. Aviva has said it has already carried out this exercise and it showed it 
didnt affect the second transfer. It should therefore provide details of the exercise to 
Mr B showing there was no impact.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman