DRN-3146961
The complaint
Mr L complains because Fairmead Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under his income 
protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L held an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Fairmead, providing
unemployment cover with a deferred period of 60 days.
In September 2019, Mr L was made redundant and submitted a claim under his policy with
Fairmead. Mr L said he never received a response from Fairmead about this first claim.
On 10 February 2020, Mr L started work with a company which Ill call V. Unfortunately, Mr
L was subsequently furloughed by V due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and
was made redundant on 21 August 2020.
Mr L made a second claim under his policy with Fairmead. Fairmead said this claim wasnt
covered as Mr L hadnt completed his training with V and was therefore still in his
probationary period.
Unhappy, Mr L brought his complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he thought it would be fair and
reasonable for Fairmead to pay Mr Ls second claim. Fairmead didnt agree with our
investigators opinion, so Mr Ls complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ls complaint in October 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules and guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) say an 
insurer must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules and guidance into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Ls first claim
Mr Ls policy provides for a benefit to be paid in certain circumstances in the event of
unemployment. The policy says Fairmead will treat the first date of unemployment as the
later of a number of dates  including the date any payment in lieu of notice expires.
Fairmeads records say Mr L was receiving payment in lieu of notice from his employer until
23 December 2019. Mr Ls policy has a deferred period of 60 days. So, therefore, benefit
payments under the policy wouldnt start until 60 days from 23 December 2019.
Mr L found an alternative job with V during this time, which meant his period of
unemployment ended before he was entitled to any benefit under his policy with Fairmead.
Mr Ls second claim
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy say:
When we wont pay unemployment benefit?
We wont pay benefit if: 
your unemployment is caused by your employer terminating your contract within, or
at the end of, your stated probation period
An insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the
payment of a premium and most income protection insurance policies contain a similar
exclusion. This is because insurers view employees who are in their probationary period as
being at a higher risk of having their contract terminated than employees who had passed
their probation.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ls probation was only extended because he was unable to
complete his training with V. But Mr Ls policy doesnt state that the reasons for a
policyholders failure to pass probation need to be related to conduct or performance. I
understand Mr L was unable to complete his training, was furloughed and then made
redundant through no fault of his own and due to circumstances outside of his control.
However, regardless of the reasons which led to this, Mr L hadnt passed his probationary
period when he made his claim. So, therefore he doesnt meet the criteria for a benefit to be
paid to him under the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr Ls policy doesnt have an exclusion relating to a pandemic. But I wouldnt necessarily
expect it to. Covid-19 was an unprecedented and exceptional situation, unforeseen by both
policyholders and insurers. The limits of Mr Ls cover are defined by the terms, conditions
and exclusions set out in his policy, but it wouldnt be practical to expect an insurer to list
every situation which it doesnt wish to cover as a policy exclusion. Mr Ls claim isnt covered
under the terms and conditions of his policy because his employment was terminated within
his extended probation period and the lack of a policy exclusion relating to a pandemic
doesnt change this.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Fairmead to pay Mr Ls
claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. Im sorry to
disappoint Mr L but I dont agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and I dont
think there arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Fairmead to accept
his claim regardless.
I understand Mr Ls employment may not have been terminated were it not for the pandemic.
But I cant fairly say its likely that Mr L would have passed his probation had Covid-19 not
happened. There are many other factors which may still have impacted on Mr Ls training. I
need to reach an outcome which is fair to both parties to this complaint and, overall, I dont
think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Fairmead to accept a claim in these
circumstances.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr L didnt 
accept my provisional decision and, in summary, said:
Fairmeads handling of his first claim, although not linked to his second claim, 
highlights very poor customer service;Fairmead offered to repay his premiums from the start of his second claim before he 
brought his complaint to our service;
he acknowledges that he was in his probationary period when he was made 
redundant from V, but the only reason he was still in his probationary period was due 
to the exceptional circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic;
he was only 2 sessions away from completing his training and has an exemplary 
disciplinary record so there are no circumstances under which he would have failed 
his probation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ls second claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
his policy. The question for me to decide is whether I think it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask Fairmead to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions and 
pay Mr Ls claim regardless. 
I understand Fairmeads communications with Mr L about his first claim may not have been 
to the standard Id expect of an insurer when dealing with an insurance claim. And I also 
understand Mr L says Fairmead offered to refund some of his premiums (presumably, as a 
gesture of goodwill in an attempt to resolve his complaint). Its open to Mr L to ask Fairmead 
directly whether it is still prepared to refund some of his premiums to him, if he wishes to do 
so. But, neither of these issues are ones which would lead me to conclude that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Fairmead to pay this claim outside of its contractual obligations to 
Mr L. 
Theres no doubt that the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 were unexpected, 
unprecedented and exceptional. But these circumstances were outside of Fairmeads control 
as much as they were outside of Mr Ls control. My remit is to reach an independent and 
impartial outcome which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, not just to Mr L but 
also to Fairmead. While the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic may have led to a 
delay in Mr L passing his probation, I dont think this means it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask Fairmead to step outside the terms and conditions of the policy and pay his claim 
anyway. 
I dont in any way dispute Mr Ls employment history, his skills and abilities or his disciplinary 
record. But there are any number of factors  both inside and outside of Mr Ls control - 
which could have prevented him from passing his probationary period. I understand Mr L 
feels strongly that he has been left in an unfair position. But I dont think Fairmead needs to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman