DRN-3231942
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Pockit Limited failed to refund transactions made from his account that
he didnt recognise after reporting the loss of his card. 
What happened
 Mr H noticed that hed lost his wallet and notified Pockit that the card associated with his
account was also lost. Pockit blocked this card, issued a new one and transferred the
available balance to it. They mistakenly linked the new card to the lost one and then
unblocked the original card whilst blocking the new card.
Several chargebacks were made for some of the early disputed transactions and these were
refunded back to Mr Hs account totalling £153.76, although these refunds appear to have
then been utilised by the unauthorised transactions after Mr H reported the card lost.
Mr H couldnt access the online account for a few months and thats when he noticed his
funds had been drained. Mr H expected to see a balance of £858.19, but it was only £6.70.
Mr H contacted Pockit about his losses and made a complaint. Pockit investigated the
circumstances and admitted some errors with how theyd dealt with his situation. They
offered Mr H £50 compensation but declined to refund the transactions as they believed Mr
H was responsible for them.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked into
by one of our investigators. She asked Pockit for evidence of the transactions, but Pockit
couldnt provide much detail due to problems with their systems that recorded this
information. They told our service that due to technical problems, they no longer have any
comprehensive audit data available.
Our investigator thought that it was unreasonable for Pockit to hold Mr H responsible for the 
transactions and recommended they refund him, including 8% simple interest. 
Pockit disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review. I issued a provisional 
decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the lack of information associated with this complaint, I asked Pockit for more details
about what had happened. Unfortunately, they werent able to provide a lot of detail. But,
after a further review, theyve told our service that they now agree with the investigators
original outcome.
The original outcome was silent on the issue of compensation as it only dealt with a refund
of Mr Hs funds and the addition of simple interest at 8%. Pockit originally offered Mr H £50
for how theyd dealt with the cancellation of his original card, but I dont think that sufficiently
recognises the difficulties Mr H has experienced as a result of how Pockit dealt with his
complaint.
Soon after Mr H became aware that his funds had gone, Pockit believed it was Mr H who
was responsible for making the transactions, but Pockit have now acknowledged that it was
an error by them that linked his original card with his new card. This made the funds
available on both cards and Pockit then mistakenly unblocked the original card, but left the
new card blocked. This meant that the original card that was reported lost had Mr Hs full
balance transferred to it, which was then spent.
The lack of records has meant its been difficult to establish what actually happened, but Im
grateful to Pockit for working through what data they did have and recognising that it was
their error that lead to the re-activation of Mr Hs card. As Mr H wasnt responsible for the
disputed transactions I think its fair and reasonable for Pockit to repay the lost funds which
includes the refunded chargebacks (£153.76) and add 8% simple interest for the loss of use
of this money.
I also think that Pockit should pay £150 in addition to the £50 already offered to Mr H for the
stress and how Pockit dealt with the situation. Mr H has said this caused him financial
worries as well as the inconvenience of losing access to his funds for a long time.
Subject to any further comments or evidence my provisional decision is that I intend to
uphold this complaint and to require Pockit Limited to:
Refund Mr H the disputed transactions (£858.19 - £6.70 + £153.76 = £1,005.25).
Add 8% simple interest to the above figure, calculated from the date of loss to the
date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £200 (£150 + £50) for the stress and financial worries he experienced.
I invited Mr H and Pockit to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Pockit didnt respond and Mr H wanted to clarify 
what had happened with his card and account at the time of the disputed transactions .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit had nothing further to add and Mr Hs comments only related to the circumstances of 
the loss. I appreciate Mr Hs further clarification, but they dont add anything to my 
provisional decision because Mr Hs loss was included as part of the redress. I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion, so this final decision confirms the findings set out in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Pockit are instructed to refund Mr H £1,005.25 and add 8% simple interest to this payment, 
calculated from the date of loss to the date of settlement. Also, to pay Mr H a total of £200 
for the stress and financial worries he experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Pockit Limited to:
  Refund Mr H the disputed transactions (£858.19 - £6.70 + £153.76 = £1,005.25).Add 8% simple interest to the above figure, calculated from the date of loss to the
date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £200 (£150 + £50) for the stress and financial worries he experienced.
If Pockit Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman