DRN-4512206
The complaint
Mr L complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to him. The purchase was 
partly financed with credit provided by Vacation Finance Limited  (VFL). Because of that, 
Mr L says he has a claim against VFL in the same way he has a claim against the timeshare 
company. 
Mr L has been represented in this complaint by a claims management business, which Ill 
call F. Any reference to Mr Ls submissions and arguments, therefore, includes those made 
on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr L and his wife have bought five timeshare products from companies within the Azure 
Group since 2015. They made purchases in September 2015, April 2016, October 2016, 
May 2017, and June 2018. Of these, only the June 2018 purchase was financed by VFL.  
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs L were on holiday in Malta, using one of their existing timeshare 
products . While there, they attended a sales presentation, at the end of which they bought a 
points based timeshare product from a company in the Azure Group. They bought 21,000 
XP points and Level 4 club membership at a total cost of £17,000. XP points could be 
exchanged for holiday accommodation and experiences, including sailing trips, motor home 
hire, and driving experiences The purchase was financed in part with a loan of £11,900 from 
VFL; it appears from the loan statements that the loan was in Mr Ls sole name. 
In 2020 two of the Azure companies, Azure XP Limited and Azure Services Limited, were 
placed into liquidation.
In March 2021 Mr L complained to VFL through F. He said: he had been pressured into 
buying the XP points; the product had been misrepresented to him; the points had been sold 
as an investment; the lending had been irresponsible; the loan created an unfair relationship; 
and commission had not been disclosed as it should have been.    
VFL did not accept the complaint, and Mr L referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr L did not accept that 
recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and, on 14 November 2023, I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
I would observe first of all that Mr L has provided very limited documentation in support of his 
claim. I do not, for example, have complete copies of either the loan agreement or of the 
2018 sale documents. However, this service has seen a number of complaints about Azure 
timeshare sales from around the same time. As is to be expected, the sellers and VFL used 
largely standard contract wording, so I have approached this case on the assumption that 
the same standard wording was used in this case. If that (or any other assumption I have 
made) is incorrect, the parties can explain that in their response to this provisional decision.
I turn therefore to the arguments which Mr L has made.
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
I have not however seen any evidence to suggest that the loan was not affordable for Mr L. 
He does not appear to have indicated at any time that he was having difficulty making 
payments, and the loan statements indicated that payments have been made in full and on 
time. That does not suggest that the loan was unaffordable. 
The fact that a borrower has not missed any payments or fallen into arrears does not 
necessarily show that the lender did carry out appropriate checks before agreeing the loan. It 
does indicate however that Mr L has suffered no loss as a result of taking the loan out. It 
also indicates that, even if more detailed checks had been made, its likely the loan would 
have been granted in very similar terms in any event.   
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
For Azure timeshare contracts made in mid-2018 and financed by VFL, the seller was 
usually Axure XP Limited, and Azure Services Limited was the credit intermediary. The links 
between those companies and VFL were such that section 75 conditions were met. I have 
therefore considered what has been said about the sale in June 2018.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr Ls statements about what he was told at the sales presentation are generic, lack detail, 
and are largely unsupported by any documentation. He has said that he was told the XP 
points would be an investment which could be sold for a profit or which could provide an 
income. The standard Application for Membership recorded that buyers had received Azures 
Standard Information Document, the Rules of Membership, the Reservation Rules, and the 
Deed of Trust. I believe Mr and Mrs L would have been provided with those documents. That 
is relevant to the question of whether they were misled about what they were buying.  
I am not persuaded that the XP points were sold as an investment that Mr L could sell. They 
were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation and experiences. I note as well 
that the standard contractual documents made it clear that XPs could only be sold through 
Azure and once they had been held for five years. I understand  the resale programme was 
opened in 2022, after this complaint was first brought. I have however seen no evidence that 
Mr L has sought to sell his XP points.       
I am not persuaded that Mr L was misled.    
But in any event, the Membership Application included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
And clause 20 included:
This Agreement is irrevocable and legally binding upon all parties and cannot be cancelled 
or rescinded at any time after the expiry of the statutory withdrawal period stated In this 
Agreement and will supersede any and all understandings and agreements between the 
parties hereto whether written or oral and it is mutually understood and agreed that this 
Agreement and the Standard Information Document and ancillary documents represent the 
entire agreement between the parties hereto and no representation or inducements made 
prior hereto which are not included in and embodied In this Agreement, or the documents 
referred to, will have any force or effect.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr L sought to rely was 
included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that he was misled, but, if I 
were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of those provisions.
Breach of contract
F says that the liquidation of Azure companies means that there is a breach of contract. I 
dont believe that is the case. Club properties were held in a trust. On 8 July 2020 the trustee 
wrote to all the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.
This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.The services linked to Mr Ls purchase of XP points therefore remain available to him and 
are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
Assuming the loan was made under pre-existing arrangements between VFL and a 
company closely linked to the seller, the timeshare agreement was a linked transaction 
within the meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act.   
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce the balance of a loan. I am 
not persuaded however that I should do so here. 
There were links between VFL and the Azure companies. I do not believe however that this 
led to a conflict of interest in respect of their relationship with Mr L. Azure XP was selling 
club membership and XP points, and Azure Services was acting as intermediary (and VFLs 
agent). Whilst it introduced finance options, it was not acting as Mr Ls financial adviser or 
agent and was under no obligation to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or 
to give advice or information on that basis.    
F says that VFL did not disclose the commission paid to Azure. VFL says it did not pay any. I 
note in any event that, before alleging that an unfair commission had been paid, F does not 
appear to have taken any steps to ask whether any commission had been paid or, if so, what 
it was. That does not suggest that the issue of commission was a real concern to Mr L, either 
at the point of sale or subsequently. 
Mr L says too that the sale was pressured. He has not really elaborated on that, other than 
to say that sales staff appeared friendly, but I note that Azures standard documents included 
a statement from the buyer to say they had not been put under pressure. Its significant too 
in my view that Mr L had 14 days in which to review the documents and withdraw from both 
the sale and the loan agreements. If he thought he had agreed to anything as a result of 
undue pressure, it is not clear to me why he didnt take advantage of the option to withdraw.  
It is not for me to decide whether Mr L has a claim against the seller, or whether he might 
therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under sections 140A and 140B of the same Act. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ls 
complaint. In the circumstances of this case, however, I think that VFLs response to the 
claims was fair and reasonable.      
I invited further arguments and evidence, and gave the parties until 12 December 2023 to 
provide them. Neither VFL nor Mr L has provided anything further. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions from those in my provisional decision. I stress however that I have reviewed the 
case in full before reaching this final decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and do not require Vacation 
Finance Limited to do anything further to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman