DRN-3613457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined Mr Rs claim against his 
private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr R previously had private medical insurance with another 
provider via his ex-employer. In January 2020 he had an annual health check which 
included a prostate specific antigen (PSA) test. Ill refer to the results of that health check 
in more detail below. 
In April 2020, Mr R retired from his employment. In June 2020, Mr and Mrs R took out 
private medical insurance underwritten by AXA. 
In September 2020, Mr R had another PSA test. That test showed a slightly raised PSA 
level. Mr Rs GP advised monitoring and a follow up test in December 2020. The        
follow-up test led to Mr Rs GP referring him to a urologist.   
In December 2020, Mrs R contacted AXA on Mr Rs behalf in relation to treatment 
following his raised PSA test result. AXA said that, based on the information Mrs R 
provided, it was unlikely that it would cover the claim, but it would ask for further 
information. AXA asked for further information then declined the claim. It said that Mr Rs 
condition was pre-existing and therefore excluded under the policy. Mr and Mrs R didnt 
accept that and pursued the matter. In March 2021, Mr R was diagnosed with prostate 
cancer and subsequently had treatment on the NHS. 
Mr and Mrs R say that when they took out the policy in June 2020, Mr R had no relevant 
symptoms or family history and no inkling that anything was wrong. They say that the 
PSA test in January 2020 showed a result in the normal range and the first abnormal 
PSA result was in September 2020. They say that monitoring of Mr Rs condition started 
after the September 2020 test result. 
Mr and Mrs R want AXA to acknowledge that Mr Rs condition wasnt pre-existing so that 
any future treatment is covered by the policy. They also want compensation for the time 
they spent dealing with the matter. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that Mr R was told to keep an 
eye on his PSA levels at the January 2020 health check and it was reasonable for AXA 
to conclude that his PSA levels were being monitored. The investigator said that Mr R 
received advice about his PSA levels in January 2020.  
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. They responded at some length. In 
summary they said:
Mr R didnt have any symptoms of prostate cancer in January 2020.
He never had an enlarged prostate.
Mr Rs GP has confirmed that he didnt give advice to monitor his PSA until 
September 2020.
Mr R wasnt under investigation following the January 2020 PSA test. 
The PSA result in January 2020 was within the normal range. 
Mr Rs GP correctly told AXA that Mr R was aware something was wrong from 
September 2020, after the inception of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs R asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs R have very strong feelings about this 
matter. Their submissions are detailed and comprehensive and theyve asked a number of 
questions. Ive summarised the basic facts of the case and presented them in a lot less 
detail. No discourtesy is intended by that. Were an informal alternative to the courts; were 
impartial and were not here to answer questions put to us by the parties. 
Our role is to consider all of the evidence we receive, decide whats relevant (and what isnt) 
to reaching a fair outcome, and come to a conclusion on how we think the dispute should be 
settled. So, I wont be addressing all of the points Mr and Mrs R have made. That doesnt 
mean Ive ignored what theyve said. Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs R and AXA 
have said and provided but I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is, whether 
AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim.
the relevant terms and conditions
Mr Rs membership is on a moratorium basis. That means that it doesnt cover 
pre-existing medical conditions he had in the three years before the policy began until he 
has been a member for two years in a row and had a period of two years in a row 
trouble-free from that condition.  The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
Pre-existing condition  any disease, illness or injury for which
you have received medication, advice or treatment or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three years [] before the start of 
your cover.
In addition to that, the policy provides that AXA wont pay for treatment of any disorder of the 
prostate if the policyholder has been under investigation, had treatment or undergone 
monitoring as a result of a PSA test in the three years before the policy began. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to uphold the 
complaint because I think that AXA treated Mr R fairly and reasonably in declining his claim. 
I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
The report from the January 2020 health check included the following:
PSA
The level of prostate specific antigen (PSA) in your blood test was raised above 
normal for your age. You are advised to seek further advice from your GP, with a 
view to having a referral to a specialist for further assessment.
So, in January 2020, Mr R received advice about his PSA level following the health 
check. 
Ive listened to recordings of relevant phone calls. When Mrs R first contacted AXA 
about the claim, she said that in January 2020 Mr R had been advised that his PSA 
level was slightly raised and to keep an eye on it. And the medical information form 
completed by Mr Rs GP said that the health check in January 2020 showed that 
Mr Rs prostate was moderately enlarged but benign.
Mr and Mrs R say that Mr Rs PSA level was within the normal range for his age in 
January 2020. It appears that there is more than one range of thresholds for the 
interpretation of PSA results. The range used at the January 2020 health check 
showed that Mr Rs PSA result was above the ideal level. Mr Rs GP uses a 
different threshold range but that doesnt alter the fact that Mr R received advice 
about his PSA level in January 2020. Mr and Mrs R say that Mr Rs prostate wasnt enlarged in January 2020. The health 
check report said that there were no significant abnormalities in areas including the 
prostate, the examination of which was normal. The covering letter to Mr Rs GP 
said that Mr Rs prostate was moderately enlarged but benign. I appreciate that   
Mr and Mrs R say that Mr Rs prostate was never enlarged. 
Based on the available information, I dont think that AXA was at fault in concluding 
that Mr Rs claim related to a pre-existing condition, as defined by the policy. Mr R 
clearly received advice about his PSA level following the health check in January 
2020. This, in itself, is sufficient to fairly decline the claim. So, even if I was 
persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs arguments about whether Mr Rs PSA level was 
being monitored, I still think that AXA acted fairly in relying on the exclusion. 
I accept Mr Rs GPs evidence that he didnt give Mr R advice about monitoring his 
PSA level until September 2020. That doesnt alter the outcome here for the 
reasons Ive outlined above.  
Mr and Mrs R complain that they spent a lot of time dealing with AXA. I think that  
AXA gave an early indication of the likely outcome of the claim. It asked for further 
medical information. I think it was right to do that. AXA consistently declined the 
claim. Mr and Mrs R clearly didnt accept AXAs conclusion and made further 
detailed arguments. AXA responded to the points Mr and Mrs R made. I dont think 
that AXA treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly or unreasonably in its handling of their 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman