DRN-3657814
The complaint
Mr K complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) was wrong to decline the claim he
brought against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). He also
complains about how Metro Bank dealt with his claim.
What happened
In November 2015 Mr K purchased a car Sat Nav (Sat Nav) which came with free lifetime
map and traffic updates. The cost of the Sat Nav was £239.99 which Mr K paid with his
Metro Bank credit card.
In February 2021 Mr K contacted Metro Bank to say he was now unable to download any
map and traffic updates to his Sat Nav. And as a result, he would like it (under section 75) to
refund him the £239.99 he originally paid for it.
In February 2021 Metro Bank issued Mr K with a final response letter (first FRL). Under
cover of this first FRL Metro Bank said:
we are unable to log any disputes fortransactions made in 2015. The reason for this is
because we only have 120 charge back rights. [sic]
In April 2021 Metro Bank issued Mr K with a further final response letter (second FRL).
Under cover of this second FRL Metro Bank said:
We have reviewed your complaint in detail and we can confirm that your dispute was
cancelled due to 120 day timeframe under MasterCard international regulations.
Unfortunately, we are unable to progress your dispute further based on the information
above and the initial refund you have received from Metro Bank has now been re-debited
from your account. [sic]
In error, Metro Bank named the merchant in this second FRL incorrectly.
In May 2021 Metro Bank issued Mr K with a further final response letter (third FRL). Under
cover of this third FRL Metro Bank apologised for naming the merchant incorrectly under
cover of its second FRL and confirmed that it had credited Mr Ks credit card with £30.
Metro Bank also reissued its second FRL to Mr K with the merchant named correctly.
In August 2021, and unhappy with Metro Banks FRLs, Mr K referred matters to our service
for investigation.
In October 2021 Metro Bank confirmed to our service that it should have considered Mr Ks
dispute as a claim against it under section 75 rather than as a claim against the merchant
under the Mastercard chargeback scheme. And for this it was prepared to pay Mr K £50.
However, it added that in its view it wasnt liable to Mr K under section 75 due to their being
no valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) arrangement in place in respect of the transaction
in dispute.
In April 2022 one of our investigators wrote to both parties to say that in his view there was a
valid DCS arrangement in place in respect of the transaction in dispute and Metro Bank
should now consider whether it might be liable to Mr K under section 75 in respect of that
transaction. He also said that Metro Bank should pay Mr K £50 (in line with what it had
confirmed to our service in October 2021 it was prepared to pay) for the distress and
inconvenience its handling of matters to date had caused.
In May 2022 Metro Bank confirmed to our service that it was prepared to pay Mr K £50 for
the distress and inconvenience its handling of matters had caused but it didnt believe it was
liable to him under section 75. It said it didnt believe it was liable to Mr K under section 75
because lifetime, in the context of lifetime map and traffic updates, needs to be considered in
the context of the expected useful life of the Sat Nav. And in its view the expected useful life
of the Sat Nav had expired at the time Mr K first raised his section 75 claim with it.
In May 2022 our investigator followed up his April 2022 view with a second view. In this
second view he said he was satisfied that Metro Bank had done nothing wrong in declining
Mr Ks section 75 claim, although he concluded this for different reasons to those cited by
Metro Bank.
In summary the investigator said he was satisfied the manufacturer was still providing
lifetime map and traffic updates for Mr Ks particular Sat Nav. And because of this he
couldnt reasonably conclude there had been any misrepresentation or breach of contract by
the manufacturer or the supplying merchant. The investigator also advised Mr K that he
doesnt dispute he is unable to download updates to his Sat Nav, but this could be for a
number of reasons and for reasons that dont flow from any breach of contract on the part of
the manufacturer or the supplying merchant.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint was passed to me for
review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2022. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr K has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their
entirety. However, I trust that Mr K will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as
a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose of my decision
is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr K says he purchased the Sat Nav that he did because it was represented to him that the
manufacturer would supply map and traffic updates for life and because the manufacturer
contractually undertook to do so.
Now I accept that Mr K might now be unable to download updates to his Sat Nav. But like
the investigator pointed out this could be for a number of reasons.But based on what both parties have said and submitted and what the manufacturer has
itself said on its website what Im satisfied about is the manufacturer is still providing map
and traffic updates for the particular Sat Nav model Mr K purchased in 2015. And because of
this I cant reasonably conclude  at the moment at least  that there has been any
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplying merchant or manufacturer in
respect of Mr Ks purchase.
Because of my findings above I would add that I dont need to make any finding on what
lifetime might mean in respect of Mr Ks purchase, or any finding on whether there is
anything else that might bring into question the quality of the Sat Nav Mr K purchased,
although I note that the investigator did express an opinion on the latter to Mr K.
However, having said the above I do find that Metro Banks handling of Mr Ks dispute was
poor, and this would have caused him some distress and inconvenience. But taking
everything into account Im satisfied that £50 represents and appropriate sum for Metro Bank
to have to pay in this respect.
Metro Bank responded to my provisional findings to say it accepted them.
Mr K responded to my provisional findings to say he wasnt satisfied with them and he would 
like more time. But he offered nothing materially new for my consideration or an indication of 
how much more time he might like or need.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K would like more time to provide comments and evidence. But Im satisfied 
he has already had enough time to do so and I dont think anything further is needed for me 
to be able to fairly and reasonably decide this complaint. Therefore, I see no good reason to 
delay the issue of this final decision. I would also add that our service needs to be fair to 
both parties to a complaint and we cant keep complaints open indefinitely.
Given that Metro Bank accepted my provisional findings and that Mr K has provided nothing 
materially new for my consideration I see no good reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is Metro Bank PLC did nothing wrong in ultimately declining Mr Ks
section 75 claim. But its handling of that claim was poor and for that it should pay Mr K £50
to reflect any distress and inconvenience this might have caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman