DRN-1983775
The complaint
Mr C complains that after completing an international payment from his account with TSB 
Bank plc, he was charged extra fees that he didnt know about.
What happened
Around December 2019, Mr C carried out three international payments from his TSB 
account to his own account in New Zealand. The payments were carried out via internet 
banking. Mr C says he was charged a fee by TSB and his own bank in New Zealand  which 
he expected and isnt unhappy about. But Mr C was unhappy to find out that he was also 
charged £72.81 per transaction by an intermediary bank.
Mr C says TSBs information about international payment charges doesnt make it clear that 
hed be charged a fee by an intermediary bank. He says it was unusual the TSB used an 
intermediary bank and, had he known, he wouldve shopped around to find a more cost-
effective option. 
After Mr C complained to TSB, the bank responded saying it had no control over the 
intermediary bank or its charges. So Mr C asked this service to review his complaint. Our 
investigator concluded that TSB had acted fairly. He explained that Mr C chose to split the 
transfer charges between him and the recipient account holder  which was also Mr C  so 
he had to pay all charges. The investigator added that it was common practice for banks to 
use intermediaries and that TSB didnt have any control over the intermediary banks fees. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He added that he 
had to split the transaction in to three separate payments because of TSBs payment limits. 
Mr C thinks the fees he paid were excessive and that TSB shouldve been more transparent 
around the charges he could incur.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking TSB to do anything differently and Ill explain why. 
Mr C says it was unusual that TSB used an intermediary bank. But its common practice for 
banks to use intermediaries for international transactions. The involvement of an 
intermediary will depend on whether the remitting and receiving banks have a direct (foreign 
currency) relationship with each other. This may mean that the payment needs to be routed 
through a third bank.
Mr C expected that TSB inform him of the intermediary banks fees. However, under the 
relevant regulations, TSB only had to make its own charges clear to Mr C. And having seen 
screen shots from TSBs website, I can see that it explains that Mr C would be charged 
£17.50 by TSB for payments over £5,000 made via internet banking. So in my opinion, TSB 
provided the information that the regulations say it shouldve done.
TSB says it has no control over the intermediary bank and wouldnt know what fees (if any) it 
would charge. I dont think that this is unreasonable. I say this because banks all around the 
world are likely to change their fees quite often. Adhering to Mr Cs expectation would mean 
that TSB would have to constantly know what those fees are and would have to do so for 
every potential intermediary bank  which isnt practical or reasonable. 
TSB says that when Mr C made the payment, he chose to share the charges In this 
instance, Mr C was both the sender and the recipient of the payment. As a result, he ended 
up paying all the charges. Mr C doesnt think that TSB made it clear that the payments he 
made could be subject to intermediary bank fees. Looking at the screen shot from TSBs 
website titled international payment costs - this says when you make an international 
payment online you will pay our transfer charges, and the person receiving the payment 
pays all other charges. This may result in the person receiving the payment receiving a 
lesser amount than you have sent. TSBs terms also explain that, where an intermediary 
bank is used, their charges (if any) will be taken from the payment amount before it reaches 
the receiving bank.
So Im satisfied TSB provided Mr C with enough information to make him aware that 
intermediary banks might be involved and that they may have their own charges  and if 
additional fees are charged, theyd be taken from the amount sent. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied TSB made Mr C aware that any intermediary 
fees would be taken from the amount sent. I also dont think TSB did anything wrong in not 
telling Mr C how much those fees would be  as it wouldnt automatically know the details of 
what those fees were.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman