DRN-1318680
 
The complaint
Miss K says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.                           
Background
This complaint is about 11 instalment loans Sunny provided to Miss K between November 
2017 and September 2018. Miss Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 02/11/2017 27/02/2018 6 £200.00
2 06/11/2017 08/12/2017 6 £100.00
3 08/11/2017 27/02/2018 6 £50.00
4 06/12/2017 04/04/2018 6 £300.00
5 21/12/2017 26/06/2018 6 £200.00
6 15/03/2018 04/04/2018 6 £100.00
7 09/05/2018 20/09/2018 6 £100.00
8 01/08/2018 01/10/2019 6 £400.00
9 12/09/2018 20/09/2018 6 £150.00
10 20/09/2018 outstanding 6 £400.00
11 27/09/2018 outstanding 6 £300.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ks complaint and thought the loans from loan 4 
onwards shouldnt have been given as they thought the pattern of borrowing indicated    
Miss K was reliant on short-term loans. Sunny disagreed but agreed to uphold from loan 8 
onwards instead. Miss K declined Sunnys offer so, the complaint was passed to me.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Sunny needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 3. Miss K 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about these loans, I wont be making 
further findings on them.
Sunny says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Miss K and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Miss Ks fourth loan in just a month and for 
the largest amount shed asked to borrow so far, I think Sunny should have been looking to 
build a clearer picture about Miss Ks finances before lending her this loan. I think Miss K was having problems managing her money. I say this because she had taken 
three instalment loans in the space of a week  which were still outstanding when loan 4 was 
taken. In the space of four weeks, Miss K had borrowed £650. Her combined monthly 
repayment had increased in this same time from just under £63 for loan one to over £100 at 
loan 3 and was to increase a further £100 at loan 4 to be over £200. Given Miss Ks income 
and borrowing, I think Sunny ought to have been concerned about this behaviour as it was 
likely Miss K would struggle to sustain her repayments without borrowing further. I think this 
was shown when she returned for another loan just over two weeks after she took out loan 
4. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss K, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Ks case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss K was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss K had taken out six loans within four months. So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss K was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ks indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Ks first loan was for £200 and loan 6 was for £100 but the amounts she had 
been borrowing had fluctuated and werent significantly reducing.  At this point Sunny 
ought to have known that it was unlikely Miss K was borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Miss K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 11 was 
taken out ten months after Miss Ks first. And it was for a larger amount. Miss K had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
 
I think that Miss K lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss K borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Miss Ks ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Sunny should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by Miss K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss K as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss K having made 
overpayments then Sunny should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss K. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss K. Sunny shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) Sunny should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation 
to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Miss Ks borrowing for loans 6 to 11 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans entirely 
from Miss Ks credit file. Sunny does not have to remove any outstanding loans from       
Miss Ks credit file until these have been repaid, but Sunny should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these 
loans.                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ks complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman