DRN-3479498
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Nationwide Building Society closed his accounts because of the number of 
complaints he made. 
What happened
Between February 2021 and November 2021 Mr D made six complaints to Nationwide. He 
says all his complaints were valid  most were upheld  and this is not a fair reason to close 
his accounts. On a call in November 2021 to discuss his latest complaint Mr D says he was 
bullied and intimidated, and he feels he has been discriminated against because he is of 
Indian origin. When Mr D complained to Nationwide, as part of its response, it gave the 
required two months notice of closure for Mr Ds six accounts explaining that it felt the 
relationship had irretrievably broken down.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. Whilst he understood Mr Ds frustration as 
his complaints were often upheld, he said under the terms of the accounts Nationwide was 
entitled to close Mr Ds accounts and it had provided the required notice. He hadnt found 
any evidence the closures were for any unfair reason, such as racial discrimination.
Mr D disagreed with this assessment, he wanted us to look at each complaint and why it was 
upheld. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
First to clarify, under the rules we must follow I cant consider the merits of Mr Ds previous 
complaints to Nationwide. But I have been able to look at his complaint history and therefore 
gain an understanding of the issues he has needed to complain about; when the problems 
occurred; and the outcome of each complaint point. I note, as he has re-iterated, his 
complaints were more often than not upheld by Nationwide and he received compensation 
as a result. So it seems both parties agree that Mr D, at times, received sub-standard 
service and made valid complaints.   
Under the terms and conditions of its accounts Nationwide is entitled to withdraw its services 
from accountholders, subject to giving not less than two months notice. It did that here. It 
gave Mr D the explanation that it felt the relationship had irretrievably broken down. I think 
that was a reasonable course of action in this case. 
To reach this conclusion I have reviewed Nationwides internal policy for managing 
relationships where there are repeat complaints. I have done this to check that it applied its 
internal guidelines in a fair and consistent way. This policy sets out that once a member 
raises more than a certain number of complaints in a set period of time the society must 
investigate to understand how best to move forward. Its set out the factors it must consider 
including errors it has made, any member vulnerabilities and whether the complaints could 
be seen as frivolous or vexatious. At times, the policy sets out, it might decide to end a 
relationship if it believes it cannot meet a members expectations in terms of either the 
products or services it offers. Prior to doing this it will let a member know that it asks for a 
reasonable level of tolerance to be kept in relation to the products and services it provides.
In the circumstances of this case I find it was, on balance, fair and reasonable for Nationwide 
to conclude that it could not provide Mr D with the level of service he sought. And that this 
had led to a breakdown in the relationship such that it would not be sustainable ongoing. I 
understand that this frustrated Mr D. And this I want to be clear my finding does not 
undermine the fact Mr D had the right to complain as he did. It instead recognises the state 
of the relationship.  
In March 2021 Nationwide included a request, in response to one of Mr Ds complaints, for a 
reasonable level of expectation and tolerance towards its products and services from Mr D. 
And it did so on two other occasions prior to deciding to exit the relationship. So I think it had 
made fair attempt to warn Mr D that it had concerns about the state of the relationship.
   
I have listened to the call from 4 November 2021. Mr D was clearly very unhappy with the 
service Nationwide had provided at times, and even more so with the steer that maybe at 
times issues could be resolved without a formal complaint. Mr D says he was threatened and 
intimidated, but I disagree. I think the advisers intention was to make Mr D aware that given 
his ongoing level of dissatisfaction with its service, a view may be taken that Nationwide was 
not the right provider for him. I am not saying Mr D didnt feel threatened, but I havent found 
any evidence to conclude that was the advisers intent. I think she remained suitably 
professional throughout the call.
In terms of Mr Ds point about discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business 
has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various 
factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Nationwide has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Mr D did not submit any specific evidence for me to 
consider in support of his claim. For the reasons Ive set out above, from what I have seen 
Im satisfied that Nationwides actions were driven by its repeat complaints policy.
I know this isnt the answer Mr D was hoping for, but I hope he can take some comfort from 
what Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed Nationwides 
actions and found no failings.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman