DRN-3131125
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly declined a claim they made 
under their home insurance (contents) policy.
References to QEL include its agents.
What happened
In late 2019, Mrs K and Mr S made a claim on their home insurance policy with QEL after 
Mrs Ks jewellery was stolen from their home during a burglary.
QEL arranged for a valuation of the stolen jewellery based mainly on Mrs Ks description and 
photographs of the missing items. The valuation report identified that the stolen items were 
worth a total of around £42,000, with eight items worth over £2,000 individually.
QEL decided to void the policy, cancelling it back to the date of the last renewal. It said this 
was because Mrs K had provided incorrect information in her application. If QEL had been 
aware of the correct information when shed arranged the insurance, it wouldnt have been 
able to offer a quotation as it fell outside of its acceptance criteria.
QEL said the renewal documentation it had sent Mrs K summarised what shed told it about 
her home and contents. This included confirmation that a total of £10,000 was enough to 
cover all valuables (each worth £2,000 or less) inside her home. Only one item was declared 
to have a value of over £2,000 with the value given as £3,000. It believed Mrs K had failed to 
take reasonable care to ensure she responded correctly when asked to declare the 
valuables within her property. QEL told Mrs K that voiding the policy meant it wouldnt 
consider any claims under it. It said it would refund the premiums paid to date.
Mrs K disputed QELs valuation of the jewellery. She provided information from a website 
giving scrap gold prices. Following this, she provided a jewellers estimate of the value of the 
gold, which totalled around £15,000. QEL says this valuation was done using an online 
scrap jewellery calculator and there were also some discrepancies in the items listed, 
compared to what had previously been valued by QELs jeweller. QEL maintained its 
position that the value of the jewellery was around £42,000 which was outside of its 
acceptance criteria.
Mrs K and Mr S remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think their complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that QEL had 
acted fairly and in line with the relevant law.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view. She said the valuations shed received from 
two independent jewellers were around £15/16,000. She felt QELs valuation should have 
been checked again from another independent source. She said shed been advised that 
since her policy renewal date and the date of the burglary the price of gold had increased 
significantly. It could be possible the item limit of £10,000 was correct at the time of renewal. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mrs K and Mr S that Ive considered all of the information theyve 
provided as well as their comments. But Ive focussed on whats relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs K has experienced a substantial loss, and this has been a very 
stressful experience for her. She feels very strongly that QEL has treated her unfairly. But in 
reaching my conclusions Ive needed to consider the relevant law, which is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This law says a consumer 
needs to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out or renewing 
an insurance policy. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
It says if a consumer doesnt take reasonable care, QEL, as the insurer can take certain 
actions as long as the misrepresentation is a qualifying one.
Ive looked into whether I think Mrs K and Mr S took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, whether the misrepresentation was qualifying and whether the action 
QEL has taken is in line with CIDRA.
Reasonable care
QEL sent Mrs K renewal documentation in April 2019, a month before the policy was due to 
be renewed. The covering letter said: You need to let us know if anything is incorrect or 
your circumstances have changed, otherwise your insurance may be invalid. It also referred 
her to the policy wording and terms and conditions.
 
A document called Your Details & Requirements was also included. QEL says the 
information on there was based on what Mrs K said over the phone when she previously 
renewed her insurance in 2018. 
The Details & Requirements document included the question: Is a total of £10,000 enough 
to cover all valuables (each worth £2,000 or less) inside your home? with the answer of 
yes next to it. 
There is also a yes next to the question: Do you have any valuables or personal items 
worth over £2,000 each (excluding bicycles)? Beneath this it says the item was jewellery or 
watch with a description of gold bangles and a value of £3,000.
Valuables is defined in the policys terms and conditions as: Articles made from or 
containing gold, silver and other precious metals or stones, jewellery (including costume 
jewellery)
Im satisfied that the questions QEL asked were clear and unambiguous. It also made  Mrs K 
aware of the importance of checking the information it held was correct. 
Mrs K has acknowledged that she didnt know the true value of the jewellery when she took 
out the policy. She says much of it was gifted by family members, so she didnt have receipts 
and wouldnt have thought it appropriate to ask what the jewellery was worth. But CIDRA 
requires a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If she was unsure of the value of the items, I think its reasonable to expect her to have found out 
before arranging the insurance. 
Mrs K disputes QELs valuation of the stolen items. She says the independent valuations 
she got herself show the value to be much lower than QELs valuation (at around 
£15/16,000). But the information shes provided show these valuations were based on the 
weight of the gold, rather than the value of the items themselves. QEL has commented that 
the scrap gold prices do not take into account the costs associated with the labour of making 
items of jewellery and I think thats right. 
The terms of the policy say that (where a claim is accepted) QEL will settle it by replacing 
the contents as new as long as the sum insured is at least equal to the cost of replacing all 
the property. They go on to say: It is your responsibility to make sure that, at all times the 
contents sum insured reflects the full value of the property insured. This is how much it 
would currently cost to replace each item as new
Given that most of the jewellery was gifted to Mrs K many years previously, I think its 
reasonable to have expected her to have obtained estimates of the value of the items when 
seeking to insure them. So, I think it was fair for QEL to have concluded that Mrs K failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she renewed the policy.
Qualifying misrepresentation
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies providing the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as a qualifying representation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
QEL says Mrs Ks failure to give an accurate sum insured for the jewellery was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. It says it wouldnt have provided the cover at all if it had known the true 
value of the jewellery. 
Its up to an insurer to decide the level of risk it is willing to take when offering a policy. QEL 
says it is a low risk insurer and its sent us evidence of its underwriting criteria which shows it 
wouldnt offer a policy if the total non-specified valuables were above a certain amount. From 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the amount of Mrs Ks valuables was significantly higher 
than this. So, I think QELs decision to treat Mrs Ks misrepresentation as qualifying was 
reasonable. 
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QEL has treated the misrepresentation made by Mrs K as careless meaning that it didnt 
consider it to be deliberate or reckless. I think this fair. If a qualifying breach is neither 
deliberate nor reckless and the insurer wouldnt have provided the insurance, it may avoid 
the contract and refuse any claims, but it must return the premiums.  I understand this is 
what QEL has done. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs K and Mr S. But overall, I think QEL has 
acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the relevant law. So, I dont require it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman