DRN-4056840
The complaint
Mrs H complains Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) mis-sold 
her a unit-linked reviewable whole of life plan.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but, for 
ease, Ill refer to Mrs H directly throughout my decision.
What happened
In 1988, Mrs H took out a Design for Life unit-linked reviewable whole of life plan 
recommended by an adviser from a predecessor of Sun Life. Mrs H paid into the plan a 
monthly premium of £20 with an annual premium increase of £2 for the first five years.
The plan was set up on a maximum investment basis meaning it provided the minimum 
amount of life cover available, £11,680. The plan was surrendered in 1999.
In November 2020, Mrs H complained to Sun Life that the plan had been mis-sold. She said 
whilst the plan was set up on a maximum investment basis there is no evidence she 
required a whole of life savings plan, nor was there evidence other alternatives were 
discussed or his attitude to risk being having been established.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said whilst they were unable to determine how 
long Mrs H wished to save for, she was already contributing to long term plans at the time 
and the plan recommended could have been cancelled after five years without charge.
Sun Life also said whilst they cannot determine Mrs Hs attitude to risk, the funds selected 
would indicate a discussion had taken place and noted shed had several years experience 
of the type of investment recommended.
Because the plan was a suitable means of primarily saving over the medium to long term, 
with the life cover the minimum required to make the plan qualifying for tax purposes, Sun 
Life said the recommendation was appropriate for Mrs Hs circumstances at the time.
Mrs H remained unhappy, so referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think the advice given was unsuitable, 
so didnt think Sun Life needed to do anything to put things right. As no resolution could be 
reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision on 2 March 2023. In this I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently agree with our investigators view. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important to say there is limited information available relating to the sale of the 
plan to Mrs H, which is unsurprising as it was taken out some 35 years ago and surrendered 
some 24 years ago. We do have some point-of-sale documentation; however, I consider it 
reasonable that not everything might be available from the time. 
In the absence of further records from the time of advice, the information Mrs H has provided 
as part of her complaint submission and what I do have available from the time is evidence 
Ive considered to help build a picture of his circumstances. 
I recognise its possible I may not be able to fully establish the events leading to Mrs H 
taking out the plan - but Im also conscious that over thirty years have passed since then. 
Ultimately, I need to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  and this is what Ive 
done using all of the information provided by both parties to the complaint.
Mrs H says she was seeking a savings plan which seems reasonable given his 
circumstances at the time as a married 35-year-old with no dependants. The fact find from 
the time supports this identifying building capital as her primary objective. It seems Mrs H 
had no real need for life assurance also supported by the fact find which identifies this as her 
third objective albeit with the caveat that it was included virtually free.
But the plan brochure makes it clear that it is a life assurance and investment plan with 
even the maximum investment basis which was selected describing the plan as also 
providing an amount of life cover sufficient to meet the typical needs of most people.
I asked Sun Life to provide me the cost of the life cover provided but theyve been unable to 
provide me this information. Due to the passage of time thats past, this is understandable 
however without it, Im unable to say with any certainty it was virtually free and didnt have 
an impact (maybe even a significant one) on the value of the plan.
Mrs H raised the issue of her attitude to risk not being established. The plan was set up to 
invest in three of the available funds with his premium being split 25% into a cautious fund, 
50% into a balanced fund and 25% into an aggressive fund. The plan offered an option for 
the premium to be invested in a managed fund, but this wasnt what happened. Im satisfied 
on balance, a discussion regarding Mrs Hs attitude to risk is more likely than not to have 
taken place and that she was open to some, albeit a low to medium, level of risk.
But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs H wanted to invest long-term. As Sun Life note, she 
was already contributing to long-term savings plans at the time and as Ive said Mrs H was 
35 and married with no dependants. Ive seen no evidence she wouldnt have needed 
access to the capital should changes in her circumstances such as parenthood or further 
house purchases have happened. I dont think committing her to a plan of this type was 
suitable.
Sun Life say whilst the policy was for whole of life, it could be cancelled penalty free after 
five years. But, throughout the first two years of the policy, 0% of Mrs Hs premiums were 
used to buy units and as such the fund value, once accounting for the cost of the life cover, 
was placed in a negative position.
Mrs H surrendered the plan after 11 years. But the plan is designed to be held for a period of 
at least 15 years. For the plan to work as it was designed to, this time was needed for the 
fund value to grow after accounting to the associated fees and the cost of the life cover.On balance, based on what I know about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest she wanted to invest for that period of time or longer and I think a 
shorter-term product, with lower associated fees would have been more suitable.
It follows, I dont think the advice provided to Mrs H was suitable and I propose Sun Life 
should do the following to put things right.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
H as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Sun Life do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Sun Life must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Sun Life should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Design for 
Life plan No longer in 
forceFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mrs H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mrs H's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Sun Life responded to say they considered Mrs Hs complaint to have been raised outside of 
the time limits the rules we must follow allow.
I explained our Investigator had raised the issue as to whether this complaint had been 
brought in time previously, to which Sun Life responded giving the Financial Ombudsman 
Service consent to continue our investigation.
DISP 2.8.2A states If a respondent consents to the Ombudsman considering a complaint in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.2 R (5), the respondent may not withdraw consent. so I asked 
Sun Life to provide any comments the wished to provide regarding the merits of this case as 
by 30 March 2023. I received no further response.
Mrs H confirmed to me she had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision.
Because neither party provided any comments regarding the merits of my provisional 
decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached previously.
Putting things right
Sun Life should do the following to put things right:
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
H as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Sun Life do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Sun Life must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Sun Life should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional interest
Design for 
Life plan No longer 
in forceFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per year 
on any loss from the 
end date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mrs H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mrs H's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman