DRN-3260682
The complaint
Miss M complained about two guarantor loans granted to her by GeorgeBanco.com Limited 
(GBL). GBL has since been acquired by Everyday Lending Limited. So, for ease, I shall 
refer to the lender as ELL below.  
What happened
ELL agreed two guarantor loans for Miss M. Loan 1 was for £5,000 and taken out in     
March 2015.  The loan was repayable by 60 monthly repayments of £187.93. Miss M kept up 
her repayments until late 2016. But her financial circumstances changed in August 2016 and 
she started to face financial problems. ELL, in response, then effectively agreed a long term 
repayment plan for Miss M in January 2017. The lender restructured the outstanding balance 
on Loan 1 as a new guarantor loan over ten years for £4,338 with £4,062 interest repayable 
by monthly repayments of £70 a month. The total amount payable of £8,400 under the 
repayment plan was a little more than the outstanding balance on Loan 1 of £8,010.99. 
Miss M said that she was made redundant in August 2016 and had her first child a few 
months later. She managed to keep up her repayments on Loan 1 for a little while using her 
redundancy money. But as she had no income, she couldnt continue to do so. 
In January 2017, Miss M asked ELL if it could reduce her monthly loan repayments on    
Loan 1. She wasnt working but was receiving child benefit. She offered to pay ELL £70 per 
month and was told that the only way the lender could accept this offer was if she took out a 
new guarantor loan for the balance of her existing loan over a longer term. Miss M felt that 
she had no choice but to do this. 
Miss M said shed struggled to meet the monthly payments. She felt pressured to enter into 
the new loan as shed just had her first baby and was very sleep deprived. She had extreme 
financial worries and a relative (who was also guarantor for the new loan) had been 
diagnosed with a serious illness and ELL was chasing the relative for payment. Miss M 
doesnt believe that ELL carried out an affordability check or a credit check before the new 
loan, and is seeking a full refund and any money owing to her in interest. She would also like 
her guarantor released. 
ELL didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said in its final response letter regarding Loan 1 that 
its affordability calculation showed that after taking this loan with it, Miss M would have had 
approximately £270 of disposable income remaining. Therefore, it couldnt agree that this 
loan was mis-sold to Miss M, or that it was unaffordable. 
Miss M had then told ELL in January 2017 that her circumstances had changed. ELL then 
completed a rewrite of Loan 1. This lowered the APR of Loan 1, extended the term and 
reduced the repayments in line with her affordability at the time. ELL says that as no funds 
were issued, the second loan didnt need to be subject to the same underwriting processes 
of a new or top up loan. This meant ELL wouldnt have completed a credit check, but it did 
conduct an affordability assessment to confirm the new repayment plan was affordable.  
Miss M was then provided with a new contract to review and electronically sign to confirm 
she had read and understood the new terms and conditions. This contract was signed by 
Miss M on 9 January 2017. 
Our investigators view
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that ELL 
had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 1. She hadnt seen anything from the 
checks it completed that ought to have prompted further checks or suggested that the loan 
was unaffordable to Miss M. The investigator also couldnt say that ELL had acted unfairly in 
providing Miss M with the second loan as it reduced her monthly repayments to give her 
more disposable income.
Miss M responded to say that she agreed with the investigators findings on Loan 1. She was 
in full time work at the time and could afford to pay the monthly instalments. But she 
disagreed that the second loan was affordable. At the time, her partner was paying the living 
costs and the only income she had was child benefit of £80 per month. She certainly didnt 
want to take out another loan that would take ten years to pay off and she believes that ELL 
should have offered her a reduced payment plan instead of a new loan. She believes that if 
ELL had done the correct checks, it would have seen that she was only in receipt of £80 per 
month. And making monthly loan repayments of £70 would only have left her with £10.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss M
and to ELL on 10 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
I noted that where information was conflicting or incomplete. I needed to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, which was what I did here.
I said that I was sorry to learn of the problems Miss M had experienced as a result of her 
financial difficulties.
I noted that Miss M had agreed with the investigators findings about Loan 1. So, I said that I 
didnt propose to investigate Loan 1 further.
Whilst ELL had provided a formal loan agreement to Miss M in January 2017, I thought it 
was effectively setting up a long term repayment plan for Loan 1 whereby Miss M paid the 
monthly amount of £70, which shed offered to pay, over ten years.  So, I said that I 
proposed to refer to the arrangement as a repayment plan, where appropriate, in the rest of 
the decision. 
Miss M said in her response to the investigators view that she didnt want to take out a 
second loan and that the lender ought to have offered her a reduced payment plan. But that 
was what I thought in effect happened here.
Id thought about whether ELL had acted fairly in providing the repayment plan to Miss M.
Id considered whether ELL had acted in line with its regulatory obligations when dealing with 
Miss Ms financial difficulties. I could see that the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 
within the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook said the following about arrears and 
forbearance:- CONC 7.3.3
Where a customer under a regulated credit agreement fails to make an occasional payment 
when it becomes due, a firm should, in accordance with Principle 6, allow for such unmade 
payments to be made within the original term of the agreement unless:
1. (1) 
the firm reasonably believes that it is appropriate to allow a longer period for repayment 
and has no reason to believe that doing so will increase the total amount payable to 
be unsustainable or otherwise cause a customer to be in financial difficulties; or
[Note: paragraph 4.7 of ILG]
2. (2) 
the firm reasonably believes that terminating the agreement will mitigate such adverse 
consequences for the customer and before terminating the agreement it explains this to 
the customer.
CONC 7.3.4
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
CONC 7.3.5 
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
1. (1) 
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges 
(for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is unable to 
meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token repayments, where in 
either case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be 
applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
2. (2) 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
1. (a) 
where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
2. (b) 
provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
3. (3) 
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who demonstrates that 
meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able to meet 
the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to a 
mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
CONC 7.3.6
Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
CONC 7.3.7A
1. (1) 
If a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, the firm should, where appropriate:
1. (a) 
inform the customer that free and impartial debt advice is available from not-for-profit 
debt advice bodies; and2. (b) 
refer the customer to a not-for-profit debt advice body.
2. (2) 
A firm may refer the customer to a not-for-profit debt advice body by, for example, 
providing the customer with a copy of the current arrears information sheet under section 
86 of the CCA, or with the name and contact details of a not-for-profit debt advice body or 
the Money Advice Service; or directly transferring the customers call to a not-for-profit 
debt advice body.
3. (3) 
In addition, the firm may provide the customer with the name and contact details of 
another authorised person who has permission for debt counselling, provided that to do 
so is consistent with the firms obligations under the regulatory system.
CONC 7.3.8
An example of where a firm is likely to contravene Principle 6 and CONC 7.3.4 R is where 
the firm does not allow for alternative, affordable payment amounts to repay the debt due in 
full, where the customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the customer makes a 
reasonable proposal for repaying the debt or a debt counsellor or another person acting on 
the customer's behalf makes such a proposal.
Id noted that CONC 7.3.3 allowed for a repayment plan period to be longer than the original 
loan term unless the lender had reason to believe that by doing so the amount repayable 
would be unsustainable or cause the customer to be in financial difficulties. As Miss M had 
offered repayments of £70 per month and said that all her household bills were being met, I 
didnt think ELL had acted inappropriately in proposing the longer repayment period at the 
time.
Id noted that ELLs final response letter said that it had conducted an affordability 
assessment to confirm that the repayments of £70 would be affordable. Id asked the 
investigator to ask ELL for details of the affordability assessment, but ELL said that due to 
the age of the case it had been unable to obtain the original affordability assessment. Id 
noted that Miss M had said that shed told ELL her former partner paid all the household bills 
and that she received child benefit. 
In addition, in Miss Ms circumstances I would have reasonably expected ELL to be able to 
show that it had signposted her to free impartial debt advice when she was having financial 
difficulties. The signposting to impartial debt advice is guidance contained in CONC 7.3.7A. 
Id asked the investigator to ask ELL for evidence that it had done this. ELL said it had no 
evidence from the notes available that Miss M was signposted to free impartial debt advice 
when she was having financial difficulties. ELL said it may have been mentioned on a call, 
but the calls were too old to obtain. 
Id asked the investigator to ask Miss M for more information, including her bank statements 
from 2016 and 2017, about whether she could afford the repayments on the repayment plan. 
Id also wanted to know why Miss M had offered ELL £70 per month. She said that she knew 
she could meet that. She said that her former partner met all the household bills and 
shopping. From Miss Ms answers to my request for more information, it seemed that the 
repayments were affordable until Miss M split up from her partner in 2019. She hadnt 
supplied bank statements from 2017, so I was unable to check her financial situation to 
consider what further checks by ELL might have revealed. 
Miss M said that ELL hadnt suggested that she should seek independent advice. But she 
also said that she didnt seek independent help as she was worried they would go to her mother who was her guarantor. Her mother was retired, and suffering ill-health and Miss M 
felt she had to find a way to pay ELL. 
I didnt think I had enough information to be able to say that ELL shouldnt have agreed to 
the repayment plan. So, overall and on balance, I didnt think ELL had acted unfairly in 
agreeing the repayment plan in January 2017 with Miss M. It seemed that Loan 1 hadnt 
been unfairly provided and Miss M was able to make her repayments to that loan until there 
was a change in her circumstances. Miss M then offered to pay reduced monthly payments 
of £70 (which she told us she knew she could meet) and ELL agreed to her proposal after 
conducting an affordability assessment. 
So, subject to any further representations by Miss M or ELL, I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint. I appreciated that what Id said was going to disappoint Miss M 
and I was sorry to have to do that, but I hoped that setting out the reasons as Id done would 
help explain how Id reached my decision.
I did note that ELLs final response letter had said that no funds were issued by the second 
loan agreement. But I noted that ELLs loan account statement for Loan 1 showed £8,010.99 
due from Miss M, but the second loan agreement showed a total amount of £8,400 due. Id 
asked the investigator to ask ELL to clarify why the total amount due on the second loan 
agreement was higher than the balance due of £8,010.99 shown on ELLs loan statement for 
Loan 1. ELL said it had reviewed the second loan and its processes had changed since it 
was made with the amount of £389.01 being added when it shouldn't have been. ELL said 
that it had requested that the balance outstanding be reduced by £389.01 and that this 
would take place regardless of the outcome of my investigation.
I noted that Miss M had said that she was experiencing financial difficulties. She said she 
was now a single parent with two young children, living on benefits. She said she had no 
savings, she had debts and she wasnt in a good financial position at all. She said she was 
trying really hard to straighten herself out but struggling immensely. 
Id noted from ELLs loan account statement dated October 2021 that Miss M had missed 
most of her loan repayments since September 2020. She had made two repayments in that 
time totalling £120. As of 8 October 2021, there was £5,550 outstanding on the account. But 
I didnt have enough information to say that there wasnt a realistic prospect of Miss M being 
able to repay the debt.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision to say she disagreed with the outcome but had 
no further information to provide.
ELL acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss M and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint.
If Miss M is still experiencing financial difficulties, I would remind ELL of its responsibility to 
treat Miss M in a positive and sympathetic manner about the amounts she should repay.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman