DRN-2915050
The complaint
Mr W is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly declined his request 
for a top-up to his Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr W took out a Bounce Back Loan of £6,062 with Lloyds in May 2020. In November 2020, 
Mr W wanted to borrow some additional funds under the top-up allowance. He was looking 
to borrow an additional £18,938, taking his total borrowing to £25,000. 
Lloyds declined Mr Ws request. It said that Mr W had already borrowed the maximum 
amount he was entitled to  as under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, applicants could 
borrow up to a maximum of 25% of their annual turnover and Mr W had originally declared 
his to be £24,251. The bank also said it wasnt possible to amend the turnover figure.
Mr W asked us to look into things. He said that his annual turnover was £100,000 and so he 
was entitled to borrow £25,000. He disputed the turnover figure quoted in his original 
application and said that this hadnt been set out in the loan agreement that hed signed.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint but she didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. She said the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules said that any top-up 
applications would be assessed using the turnover declared in the applicants initial 
application. And looking at the record of Mr Ws initial application, she could see hed 
declared a turnover figure of £24,251. So he was only able to borrow 25% of that amount, 
which hed already done.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators assessment. He didnt accept that hed entered the 
turnover amount quoted and thought that this had been determined by the banks online 
application process, based on the amount hed asked to borrow. He also said the bank had 
made an error in failing to mention the turnover figure in the loan agreement and said that 
the true figure of £100,000 was borne out by the account activity. 
Our investigator reviewed the banks application process in light of Mr Ws comments, but 
these didnt change her view. So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
I dont think there is any dispute over the rules and requirements of the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, but for completeness I should confirm the following points that are relevant here:
The maximum loan available under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, including any 
top-up loan, was 25% of the applicants annual turnover. 
The annual turnover figure declared in the applicants initial Bounce Back Loan 
application would be used to assess any top-up application and this could not be 
amended.
Mr W wanted a top-up loan that would take his total borrowing under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme to £25,000. To be eligible for that, hed need to have an annual turnover of 
£100,000  and to have declared this amount when he completed his initial Bounce Back 
Loan.
I dont dispute what Mr W says about his actual annual turnover. He says this is evidenced 
within the account activity and Ive no reason to doubt that. Rather, the issue here is the 
figure that Mr W declared when submitting his original application.
As the application process is all online, its very difficult to verify exactly what Mr W wouldve 
seen at the time  and what he entered. But Ive seen what Lloyds standard process was 
and I think its most likely that Mr W was taken through that when completing his application. 
This included a clear question that asked the applicant for their annual turnover, requiring 
them to enter a figure. Lloyds record of Mr Ws application shows that he entered a figure of 
£24,251. So I dont think the bank made an error in processing Mr Ws application on this 
basis. 
It follows that, as Mr W had already borrowed 25% of the annual turnover figure he declared 
when initially applying, Lloyds correctly declined his request for a top-up loan. 
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said and provided to us about the application 
process. He thinks there was a slider tool that allowed him to indicate how much he wanted 
to borrow, and that his turnover figure was then populated based on that. Lloyds says that 
isnt what happened and it isnt borne out by the available evidence. While there was a slider 
tool, it wasnt embedded within the application process. Mr W is also unhappy that the 
turnover figure wasnt quoted on the loan agreement itself. But this was not a requirement 
under the Scheme rules and not something I wouldve expected the bank to include. So 
these points dont change my conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman