DRN-2278821
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance trading as More Thans decision 
to decline a claim he made Mr and Mrs Ds joint home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs Ds mobile phone was stolen. In December 2019 Mr D made a claim 
under their home insurance policy to RSA. 
RSA accepted the claim and offered either a replacement phone or a cash settlement. As Mr 
D said hed already bought a replacement phone, he opted for a cash settlement. 
RSA realised that Mr and Mrs Ds policy didnt have the appropriate cover for Mrs Ds stolen 
phone. So it declined the claim.
RSA apologised for its error. But it said the correct decision had been made in line with the 
level of cover under the policy. For the distress and inconvenience caused by its error, RSA 
offered to pay £100 compensation, which Mr D rejected. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. He provided a copy of the Schedule of Cover 
document he received when he bought the policy. Mr D said he believed he had cover for 
personal possessions and only had to specify items valued at over £1,000. He wants RSA to 
honour the settlement it originally offered.
Our investigator didnt recommend their complaint should be upheld. She said there were a 
number of options as to the levels of personal possessions cover available for Mr D when he 
bought the policy. As he chose specified items cover, this meant the two laptops specified 
were the personal possessions covered. And this is what the Schedule of Cover showed. 
Mr D didnt agree. He says the vague wording and actions of the insurer led him to believe 
that he had cover in place (for unspecified personal possessions). Because he believes RSA 
hasnt been sufficiently clear, he wants it to deal with his claim in good faith. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key section of Mr and Mrs Ds Schedule of Cover reads:
Personal Possessions 
Specified Items
Laptop £2,000
Apple laptop £2,500.
RSAs policy says the following under the section Additional Contents Cover:
Personal possessions - Covers your possessions against accidental damage or loss 
while in or away from your home in the British Isles and up to 60 days worldwide. 
You can choose to cover:
 unspecified items only
 unspecified and specified items
 specified items only
Unspecified items are those worth less than £1,000 each  a minimum sum insured 
of £500 applies to these items in total although this amount can be increased if you 
wish.
Specified items are those worth more than £1,000 each and these items must be 
listed individually.
I think its clear from the Schedule that their level of cover was for specified items only as 
there is no reference to unspecified items cover. 
Theres no dispute that RSA should have realised from the outset that the claim wasnt 
covered. When things go wrong, we consider what an insurer has done to put things right, 
and what would have happened had the insurer not made a mistake. 
In this case, if RSA had acted correctly, Mr D would have been made aware when he first 
made his claim that it wasnt covered. So RSA failed to manage his expectations, but its 
decision to decline the claim is correct. 
For this reason, I think the compensation RSA offered - and still prepared to pay - of £100 is 
fair and in line with awards we make in similar circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, save for the offer of £100 
compensation made by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance trading as More Than is fair and 
reasonable. 
RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs D 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman