DRN-2953592
The complaint
Mr D complains Allay Claims Ltd has charged him success fees for payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claims he said he never authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr D said his wife had asked Allay to carry out a free PPI check. But he hadnt given them 
any instruction to pursue a PPI claim on his behalf. In August 2019, after failing to contact 
Allay by telephone, he emailed them and asked for a call back to discuss his claim. Mr D 
said Allay didnt get back to him. Mr D said he thought Allays fees were too high, so in mid-
August 2019 he made a PPI claim directly to his lender using a free on-line service.
In October 2019, Mr D was told by his lender, Ill call B that his claims were successful, and 
he was offered compensation for the mis-sold PPI. Mr D said he was invoiced shortly 
afterwards by Allay asking him to pay their fee for his successful claims. Mr D said hed not 
signed any letter of authority (LoA) for Allay to act on his behalf for making his PPI claims. 
He complained to Allay.
Allay said a LoA had been signed in June 2019 and theyd acted in good faith in submitting 
this to Mr Ds lenders, pursuing his PPI claims based on the information provided to them in 
the initial application. Allay said theyd updated Mr D when PPI had been found, and theyd 
provided him with their claims service. Allay said they asked Mr D to complete a PPI 
questionnaire (PPIQ) to strengthen his claim that the PPI had been mis-sold. Allay said the 
PPIQ was completed, returned to them, and theyd submitted this to B.
Allay said B told them when Mr Ds claim was successful, and as he hadnt cancelled his 
agreement with them, they said their fee was justified.
Mr D wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr D, on balance, had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as he 
hadnt cancelled his agreement, he said Allay could charge their success fee.
Mr D didnt agree. He said Allay had given him conflicting information, and their terms and 
conditions werent clear. He reiterated he hadnt signed any LoA. He also said as hed made 
the claim directly with B, Allay shouldnt charge their fee. He has asked for an ombudsman 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration as he feels strongly that he didnt authorise Allay to act
on his behalf to pursue a PPI claim with his lender B. And doesnt accept the signature on 
the LoA is his. Allay also feel strongly that theyd Mr Ds authority to submit his PPI claim to 
his lenders, and it was their work that meant Mr Ds claims were successful.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. I understand Mr Ds concerns about the LoA Allay said
he has signed that authorised them to pursue a claim of mis-sold PPI on his behalf. But it
isnt our role to validate a signature. Were an informal dispute resolution service, this means 
were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides 
story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were 
given.
So, I need to determine whether, on balance, I think Mr D authorised Allay to act on his
behalf. And if he had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him.
Ill also consider whether I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr
D.
Allay said Mr D had first enquired about their services in December 2018, but Mr D hadnt 
signed their LoA so his claim wasnt pursued. But with the approach of the August 2019 
deadline for making PPI claims they said they reached out to customers. In June 2019, they 
told customers whod previously enquired about a PPI claim about the approach of the 
deadline to make a PPI claim.
Allay has shown an online application for Mr D was made in June and August 2019. The 
personal details in the application(s) correlate with the personal details Mr D has given to us. 
The application(s) also needed details of Mr Ds lenders, and these details were also 
provided.
Allay has shown the audit trail for the on-line application(s) and the information that was
supplied. They said that the terms and conditions had been agreed to. And by agreeing to
the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA populated with the personal
details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature
being added. And an acknowledgement would have been sent to Mr D after it was 
submitted. 
As the information provided was specific to Mr D, and he has confirmed that he was aware 
the information was supplied. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr D or someone acting on his 
behalf submitted the on-line application(s). And  I can see from Allays records a LoA 
submitted to them dated 19 June 2019 was sent to B a couple of days later. Allay said a 
further LoA was submitted to them at the beginning of August 2019, but as theyd already 
submitted the LoA from June 2019 to B, they treated this as a duplicate.
As outlined above Allays terms and conditions were available to see and that they could be 
downloaded in a durable medium. In submitting the LoA Mr D would have agreed to them.
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can
be given by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire 
online or over the telephone with Allay.. If the claim is successful, our normal 
fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply. 
In July 2019, I can see from Allays records they sent notification to Mr Ds mobile phone 
number (the same number he has given to us) that B had told them theyd found PPI on his accounts and that they would investigate his claim that PPI had been mis sold. The 
notification was headed Great News and that a claim could now be submitted to Mr Ds 
lender. 
Allay asked Mr D to complete a PPIQ to support his claim that hed been mis-sold PPI. The 
notification provided a link to the PPIQ. I can see from Allays records that the PPIQ was 
completed and returned to them the same day  22 July 2019. I can also see that the 
information provided was specific to Mr D, as it included self- employment, salary and sick 
pay details. So, Im satisfied this was Mr Ds instruction to Allay to submit a PPI claim on his 
behalf. So, I think it was clear from this point the free PPI check period had ended and Mr D 
had instructed Allay to make a claim, and that any successful claim would incur a fee.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC)
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims.
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So,
the PPIQ wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the information could 
be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold.
Allay has shown that they submitted the completed PPIQ to B. And that B acknowledged 
receipt of the submitted documents. I can see Allay sent an update in August 2019 to Mr D 
to the same mobile phone that confirmed Bs acknowledgement and to update Mr D about 
the potential timescales for his complaint to be resolved  12 weeks. I can also see they sent 
a further update to the same mobile phone number, at the beginning of October 2019 to say 
the expected time for resolution would be around six weeks.
In October 2019, B notified Mr D and Allay that two PPI claims had been successful. One 
for card *7000 (and linked cards), and for account *0578. I can see from both the 
notifications that B sent that they acknowledge their decision was made based on 
information they held internally, and information provided by Mr D and Allay. I know Mr D 
said hed made his claim directly with B but the information hes shown is that this claim 
wasnt made until 15 August 2019, which is after Allay submitted his claim to B. And the 
notifications sent by B I think show B recognised Allay as being authorised by Mr D, and 
that they werent solely dealing with Mr D for his PPI claims.
Ive considered whether Mr D cancelled his agreement with Allay. Their  terms and 
conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling
off period we obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
I can see from Allays records they theyd submitted, on receipt of Mr Ds instruction (the 
PPIQ) his claim to B on 22 July 2019. This meant Mr D would have had up to and including 
4 August 2019 to cancel the agreement without incurring any fees.
I can see that Mr D tried to contact Allay around this time. And he has shown an email he 
said was sent to Allay  5 August 2019. This refers to the free PPI check but confirms that 
he has been told that PPI had been found for several of his lenders. Mr D says he wants to:
talk to someone about them before proceeding and what we can expect
I cant see any record of this email on Allays notes but I think Mr D was clear in that he 
wanted to discuss his claim, even though he didnt specifically say he wanted to cancel the 
agreement. But I can see the email was sent outside of the 14 day cooling off period albeit 
by a day. And while Mr D said he didnt get a response to his email, and started his own claim on 15 August 2019, I can see that Allay, as outlined above sent an update SMS 
message on 23 August 2019. 
Mr D has said he didnt respond to any messages or requests from Allay sent to him through 
the summer months, But I think Mr D would have known Allay were still progressing his 
claim from the updates they gave. And I dont think by simply disengaging from the process 
it was enough to consider this as Mr D cancelling the agreement. As Mr D hadnt told Allay 
he wanted to cancel his agreement with them before he received his redress in October 
2019 Allay had continued to provide their services, and to update him about his PPI claim. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr D authorised Allay to act for him in pursuance of his PPI claim(s), 
and that he hadnt cancelled his agreement with them.
The agreement Mr D had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook.
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mr Ds claims
were successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr D agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in
place for PPI claims. Mr D could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he
cancelled the claim before it was successful.
I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision, but, on balance, Im satisfied that Allay was
authorised by him to act on his behalf and his claim was successful. This means Allay
have acted fairly and reasonably in charging their fees for these claims.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman