DRN-3625975
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday to a country Ill call P. They were due to
travel between 4 and 18 August 2020. On 27 February 2020, they took out a Big Blue
Travel travel insurance policy - which was underwritten by Ageas - to cover their trip. The
policy included cover for Mr Ws existing health conditions.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but
essential travel abroad. On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging
legally enforceable restrictions on travel and movement, which were commonly referred to
as lockdown. Lockdown measures began to be eased in the part of the UK in which Mr and
Mrs W lived in late May 2020.
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs W got in touch with the broker which had sold their policy to ask
what cover theyd have if, (amongst other reasons), the FCDO was still advising against
travel to P. The broker responded and told Mr and Mrs W that there was no cover if the
FCDO advised against cover to a policyholders destination.
And on 8 July 2020, Mr and Mrs Ws accommodation booking provider let them know that
their hotel booking had been cancelled by their hotel because the hotel was closed. Mr and
Mrs W ultimately decided not to travel as theyd planned and chose not to take their flights.
They made a claim on the policy for their cancellation costs.
Ageas turned down the claim. It said the circumstances werent covered by the policy terms.
And it said that claims which were down to the prohibitive regulations of any government
were specifically excluded from cover.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Ageas decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt agree that
FCDO advice against travel was a prohibitive regulation by a government. He accepted that
the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO
advice. But he noted that the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder
travelled against FCDO advice. This meant Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have been covered if
they cancelled their trip and they wouldnt be covered if theyd travelled as planned. He didnt
think the policy terms made the combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered
that if Mr and Mrs W had been aware that they wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance
changed before they travelled, they wouldve been unlikely to take out the policy. Ultimately,
he felt it would be fair for Ageas to assess Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Ageas treated
them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand that when the insurance was
taken out, on 27 February 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Ageas obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are limited by the terms, conditions
and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy says that Ageas will pay for a policyholders unused cancellation
costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events. The
Cancellation and curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy says Ageas will pay such
costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4 your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or
fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your
home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of
the Armed Forces; emergency services, the nursing profession or a government
employee being ordered to return to duty.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation and curtailment section of their
policy.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ws policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. He thought this left Mr and Mrs W in an unfair
position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and
conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Ageas to do
so here and Ill explore why.
The investigator concluded that the main reason Mr and Mrs W had cancelled their trip wasbecause theyd learned from the broker they wouldnt be covered if they travelled against
FCDO advice. I accept this is possible. But I need to decide what I think is most likely to
have happened given the totality of the available evidence. Mr and Mrs W have told us that
their hotel booking was cancelled by the provider on 8 July 2020 because their hotel was
closed. This was over a month after their broker had informed them that there wasnt cover
for travel against FCDO advice. I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs W looked into
cancelling their trip shortly after receiving the response from their broker. And I can see from
the cancellation message the hotel sent Mr and Mrs W that there was the potential for them
to postpone their booking or rebook at another hotel within the same chain. During a call with
our investigator, Mr W said that their plans between the hotel cancelling their booking and
deciding not to fly on 4 August 2020, had been up in the air. So it seems at least possible
that Mr and Mrs W were still considering travelling to P during this period.
So it seems to me that its more likely than not that the main reason Mr and Mrs W cancelled
their trip was because the hotel had cancelled their booking and because of its inability to
provide their pre-booked accommodation. This simply isnt covered under the terms and
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance contract. And I dont think I could fairly direct Ageas
to step away from the policy terms and conditions on the specific facts of this case.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position, as I appreciate theyve incurred
significant cancellation costs, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I
could direct Ageas to pay this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments they wished me to take into account.
Ageas didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs W confirmed theyd received my provisional decision, but they didnt add any 
additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman