DRN-3675115
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In August / September 2021 Mrs B sought to make a claim on her LEI policy which was 
underwritten by Aviva. She wanted to take legal action for a breach of contract against a 
builder that shed contracted with to do work at her home. 
Aviva passed the claim to one of their panel solicitors who Ill refer to as M. M conducted an 
assessment of Mrs Bs claim and in an opinion dated 29 October 2021 said at that time it 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success (a requirement for cover under the policy). 
They also raised potential concerns about the proportionality of proceeding. The legal 
opinion asked that Mrs B provide an expert report that comments on the standard of the 
builders work and quotations for any remedial works that may be required. 
Mrs B challenged the legal opinion. She pointed out that key information shed provided 
(such as the contract between her and the builder) clearly hadnt been taken into 
consideration by M. Aviva say that on 15 November 2021 M emailed them to say that they 
now believed the claim had reasonable prospects of success, but that an expert report was 
required to confirm the value of the claim and the works required. 
Mrs B complained to Aviva. She wasnt happy with being required to fund the expert report. 
She was also unhappy with Avivas supervision of M and the service shed received. Aviva 
provided their written response to the complaint on 22 November 2021. In a broad summary 
they didnt agree theyd done anything wrong and explained why they believed theyd acted 
within the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review 
her complaint. 
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our Investigator that I cant comment on the actions of Aviva that took place after 
they issued their complaint response. This isnt intended to be obstructive, but before our 
service can become involved, a business is entitled to have an opportunity to respond to a 
complaint and put things right if required. As such, Ill be keeping my findings to Avivas 
actions prior to 22 November 2021. 
Like most LEI policies Mrs Bs includes a provision that it is proportionate to continue to fund 
any legal action under the policy. The policy says: If, in the lawyers opinion: your claim 
has reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses would not be reasonable 
then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it
I dont think this is inherently unfair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client 
wouldnt generally spend more on legal action than they stood to recover if successful. So, I 
dont think an insurer should have to either. 
Our longstanding approach has been that its for a policyholder to show that they have a 
valid claim. Overall, I think Mrs B went some way towards doing that, but I dont think Aviva 
requiring further evidence as to the value of her claim was unreasonable. 
Mrs B had provided photographs and information about the defects of the work that she was 
complaining about. She also provided an email from her local building control department. 
This highlighted that there was damage to her roof caused by the builder which had created 
a contravention of building regulations. 
Aviva initially asked M to review Mrs Bs claim. As Ive mentioned above, their advice in 
October 2021 was that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. That same 
advice raised concerns about the proportionality of the claim. Specifically that Mrs B had 
withheld a payment from the builder  and that if this was greater than the costs of remedial 
work, then the value of the legal claim might be so low that it wouldnt be proportionate to 
pursue. 
I note that M later changed their position on the prospects of success  this is documented in 
an email in November 2021. But again, the issue of proportionality was raised, and it was 
explained that further information was required to evidence that the claim was proportionate 
to pursue.
Aviva themselves arent legal experts. So, I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal advice when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so obviously wrong 
that I could expect a layperson to identify that. I appreciate that Mrs B has concerns about 
the quality of the legal advice from M. And that certain documents shed provided hadnt 
been referenced in the initial legal advice. Ive considered this, but I still think it was fair for 
Aviva to rely on what M said about the proportionality of progressing the claim. 
Whilst I agree Mrs B had evidenced she had a dispute with the builder that was potentially 
covered by the policy  she hadnt ever evidenced that the claim was proportionate to 
pursue. I acknowledge these considerations can be balanced. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint, I think Aviva requiring evidence that the claim was proportionate to pursue 
and was therefore valid was reasonable. There had been concerns about proportionality 
from the start. I dont consider evidence to support that the claim is valid to be a part of the 
evidence gathering process that Id expect a panel solicitor to go through when preparing the 
underlying legal case on an accepted claim. 
There is further provision for this within the policy terms: Should you wish to pursue a claim 
the lawyer will need you to provide as much information as possible to support your case. 
This could include: copy of contracts, witness details, correspondence with anyone regarding 
your claim etc. You are responsible for providing evidence to support your case at your own 
cost. Mrs B says that the examples given are all relatively easy to provide at little cost. She 
doesnt believe it is fair for her to be expected to provide further expensive reports and if that 
is the expectation, then this should be given greater prominence in the policy documents. 
Ive considered this but I dont necessarily agree. The list above includes examples but isnt 
exhaustive. It also makes clear that further evidence or information may be required at the 
policyholders cost. Ive considered all that Mrs B has said in this regard, but I think the policy 
makes sufficiently clear that she has to provide evidence to support her claim and that she 
would be responsible for the costs incurred when doing so. 
However, the further evidence required was repeatedly described as an expert report. 
Mrs B duly went and obtained such a report at a significant cost of £2,100. I think Aviva 
could and should have been clearer with Mrs B as to what was required from her. All Mrs B 
needed to do was to evidence a valid claim. And as prospects had been confirmed, she only 
needed to show that the claim was likely to be proportionate to pursue. For this, I think that 
quotations from builders would have been sufficient to enable her to evidence the value of 
her claim.
I think Aviva should have highlighted the difference between evidence and information to 
give an idea as to the value of the underlying claim, and court compliant expert evidence to 
help present such matters at trial if required. I think Mrs B only ought to have been 
responsible for the former, and if the claim was found to be proportionate to pursue then 
Aviva would have been responsible for the costs of the latter as a part of the evidence 
gathering process in preparing a legal case. I dont think Mrs B needed to obtain expert 
evidence to comment on the workmanship of her builder to evidence the value of her claim.
I think Avivas failure to clearly explain and define what Mrs B needed to obtain to evidence a 
valid claim resulted in her instructing the expert to compile his report. And I think this was at 
far greater cost than getting builders quotes that would have been sufficient to indicate the 
value of her claim (the extent of Mrs Bs responsibility and likely could have been done at no 
cost). I dont think Mrs B acted unreasonably by seeking an expert report and incurring that 
cost as she effectively followed the guidance she was given. 
As such, Im intending to direct that Aviva reimburse Mrs B the cost of the report, along with 
8% simple interest (yearly) from the date she paid the expert, until the date of settlement. 
Ive also considered the service provided by Aviva within the period relevant to this 
complaint. Aviva arent responsible for the day to day running and management of the legal 
work, M are. And even though M were being funded by Aviva under the policy, this doesnt 
mean Aviva are responsible for the service or quality of the legal advice that M provide. I can 
see that Aviva responded appropriately in passing on Mrs Bs concerns such as when she 
questioned the qualifications of her contact at M. This is what Id expect them to do in those 
circumstances. 
It seems the expert report was obtained promptly (as the date of inspection was in early 
December 2021). So I dont think this would have impacted the progression of any 
underlying legal action. And even though I think Aviva ought to have been clearer about the 
nature of the further evidence Mrs B was to provide, I dont think this caused avoidable 
distress or inconvenience such that a compensation award is appropriate. Mrs B would still 
have been required to obtain quotes along with any inconvenience that would have involved. 
I dont think that is significantly different to the inconvenience of instructing an expert and Ive 
made provision for any financial impact with my intended interest award. 
Im mindful that Mrs B has had a particularly difficult time in the circumstances surrounding 
her claim. But it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Aviva liable for all the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced. As Ive mentioned before, Aviva arent responsible for the actions of M in their day to day management of her legal claim. Nor are they responsible for 
the actions and the behaviour of any of the contractors involved. 
Mrs B has also expressed some concerns about the wider actions of Aviva in the context of 
other customers who may not be as experienced as she is in navigating insurance claims. 
Im pleased to see that our Investigator has already explained that we can only comment on 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint. And the Investigator correctly referred her 
to the industry regulator in this regard.
Aviva responded and said they had nothing further to add. Mrs B provided a further 
response which Ill address below. Now both parties have had a further opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B agreed with my intended award of the cost of the expert report. But much of Mrs Bs 
further submissions relate to her concerns about the decisions taken by Aviva with regard to 
proportionality, their interpretation of the policy terms and her concerns about Ms lack of 
specialism (with regard to planning law). 
One example of this being that she believes the evidence from the planning department was 
sufficient to confirm that her home was unsaleable. As such, she believes the potential value 
of the claim to be the same as the value of her home. 
Ive considered all of this. But as before, Aviva provided their complaint response in late 
November 2021. At that time, they required an expert report to evidence the proportionality 
of proceeding with the claim. I maintain that it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on what M 
had said about proportionality at that time. M had the information from the building control 
department and so Im satisfied it would have been taken into consideration. I dont agree 
that this was a complex part of planning law, indeed Mrs B herself says she pointed out that 
her house was unsaleable at the time. The evidence from M suggests that they valued the 
claim at the cost of putting things right (to get Mrs Bs home back into a saleable position) 
rather than being equal to the value of her home which would have maintained a significant 
inherent value despite the situation at the time. 
The expert report is dated 1 February 2022. I agree with Mrs B that further, similar issues 
are involved that arise from the same set of circumstances. But any decision Aviva took in 
relation to the claim based on the expert report, is something that cant have been 
considered in the November 2021 complaint response. These were new decisions based on 
further information and Aviva are entitled to investigate a complaint about the same before 
our service becomes involved. As such, it would be inappropriate for me to comment on that 
in this decision. 
To a certain extent, the same applies to Mrs Bs concerns about M not being specialists in 
planning law. Im satisfied they didnt need to be for Aviva to rely on their opinion about 
proportionality and requiring the expert report in November 2021. In the event of the claim 
being accepted, Id expect Aviva to provide suitably qualified legal representation, but again 
that isnt something I can comment on in this decision. 
Ive also considered a further complaint response that Mrs B shared that came from Aviva 
themselves (as opposed to their LEI claims handler). Part of this relates to Mrs Bs home insurance rather than the LEI although it touches on similar issues to Avivas LEI claims 
handlers complaint response. But nothing in this response changes my mind as to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mrs B has described some very frightening and concerning circumstances 
involving threats shes received from the builder that have required police involvement. I 
dont doubt this has been incredibly upsetting. Ive also taken into account Mrs Bs individual 
circumstances when thinking about the service she received from Aviva in the time period 
relevant to this complaint. And whilst I accept its been a difficult time, I cant fairly attribute 
distress caused to Mrs B by the wider circumstances or parties other than Aviva (or their 
agents). I remain satisfied Aviva appropriately passed on Mrs Bs concerns to M. And in the 
context and scope of this complaint, I dont think Aviva have treated Mrs B unfairly such that 
a compensation award is appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mrs B the £2,100 cost of the expert report. They must also 
add 8% simple interest (yearly) to this amount which is to be calculated between the date 
Mrs B paid the expert and the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman