DRN-2440003
The complaint
 Mr Y believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan hed applied 
for.
 
What happened
 In March 2016 Mr Y took out a £2,000 loan with Avantcredit, to be repaid over 12 months 
with repayments of £211.90 a month. This loan was repaid in June 2016.
Mr Y has complained that Avantcredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. He 
said he had a history of sustained lending from multiple borrowers, a bad credit rating, and a 
gambling addiction. So he didnt think the checks Avantcredit did were thorough enough, and 
he didnt think they shouldve approved the loan. Avantcredit didnt agree, so Mr Y brought 
his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Avantcredit did a credit search and obtained details of Mr Ys income 
and expenditure. This showed all of Mr Ys credit commitments were up to date, and the new 
loan was affordable. So she thought theyd carried out reasonable and proportional checks, 
and she wouldnt have expected them to do anything more.
The investigator also noted that Avantcredit had offered Mr Y £80 as a goodwill gesture, 
because this loan wouldnt meet their current lending criteria, which hed rejected. But she 
said she needed to consider the lending criteria in place in 2016, when Mr Y applied for the 
loan, and not the current criteria. So she didnt think Avantcredit needed to do anything.
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigator and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2020, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Avantcredit checked at the time they approved Mr Ys loan. Hed 
declared a monthly income of £1,850 and this was verified from the credit search they did. 
The credit search showed Mr Y had a history of taking out multiple short-term payday loans. 
It also showed that Mr Y was paying £1,152 a month for his existing credit commitments, 
which had a total outstanding balance of £1,641. 
The credit search also showed that Mr Y had missed payments within the last two months 
and had a default 12-months ago. And it flagged an overindebtedness indicator as being 
present. It also showed that Mr Y owed 264% more money than he had 12-months earlier.
Different lenders have different criteria, so I cant say that the default and the recent missed 
payments shouldve been a reason why the loan shouldve been automatically declined. But 
Id expect Avantcredit to have taken this into consideration as part of their lending decision.
Mr Y had a verified monthly income of £1,850. He declared he paid £700 for his rent and 
household bills, and an additional £450 for other monthly expenses (food etc.). His existing 
credit commitments were £1,152 a month, meaning that Mr Y didnt have enough income to 
support all of his existing outgoings, let alone the new loan with Avantcredit. And, because 
the new loan was needed for car repairs, it wouldnt have been used to repay any existing 
debt and free up any monthly disposable income for Mr Y.
Im aware that, with the monthly payments and outstanding balances, Mr Ys existing credit 
commitments wouldve been repaid within two months. And Avantcredits loan wouldve then 
been affordable. But this could only happen if Mr Y made the payments. And, given that the 
credit commitment payments and his essential household bills (rent, council tax, utilities etc.) 
totalled Mr Ys income, so he couldnt even afford to live; its not possible that Mr Y couldve 
repaid these debts without additional borrowing. And it was a situation which wouldve been 
made worse by the granting of Avantcredits loan.
Given these circumstances, I dont think it was appropriate or responsible for Avantcredit to 
lend Mr Y any money at this time. But, because they did, I think they should do something to 
put this right.
For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Mr Ys complaint. And AvantCredit of 
UK, LLC should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr Y received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr Y made should be deducted from this amount. If this results 
in Mr Y having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be refunded 
along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made 
until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ys credit file relating to the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
responses
Both AvantCredit and Mr Y accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and because no further 
evidence has been submitted that changes my mind, I see no reason not to adopt my 
provisional decision as my final decision.
Putting things right For the reasons explained, AvantCredit of UK, LLC should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr Y received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr Y made should be deducted from this amount. If this results 
in Mr Y having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be refunded 
along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made 
until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ys credit file relating to the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit
must give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
  For the reasons explained above I uphold Ms Ys complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman