The complaint
Mr I complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) charged too much 
interest on his credit card account. He believes the way Amex calculates interest is unfair, 
and he considers that its terms and conditions are unjust.
What happened
Mr I did not clear the full balance shown on his August 2019 credit card statement within a 
month of that statement. He told us that was a one-off error, caused by either him or his wife 
accidentally making a payment to the wrong account. He is unhappy about the amount of 
interest Amex charged as a result.  
Amex told us that its statements explain We won't charge interest on purchases if you pay 
the full amount you owe on each statement date on time every month. Otherwise we'll 
charge interest daily from the date an amount is charged to your account until it's paid in 
full. Mr I did not pay the full amount shown on his August 2019 statement on time, and so 
Amex says it charged interest in accordance with its terms and conditions.
Amex also told us that, at its own discretion, it does sometimes agree to refund interest 
charges. However, since it had refunded interest to Mr I on previous occasions, it was not 
willing to make a gesture of goodwill here.
One of our investigators said she was satisfied Amex had treated Mr I fairly. She thought 
that when Mr I applied for the credit card, Amex had made the interest charges clear. She 
also thought Amex had applied the charges in accordance with its terms and conditions, and 
she saw no basis on which she could fairly ask Amex to refund those charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr I, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has said. I have reached the same conclusions she did, for the same reasons. I 
acknowledge that the interest rate on Mr Is Amex credit card is higher than the rates on 
some other forms of borrowing, but that does not automatically make the rate unfair.
I am satisfied that Amex correctly applied its terms and conditions. I see nothing in these 
circumstances that would make it unfair for Amex to apply those terms. I am satisfied that 
Amex had previously made Mr I aware of its terms  including the way interest was 
calculated  and that Mr I had agreed to them. Overall, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
order Amex to pay anything to Mr I.
DRN-1904782My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against American Express Services 
Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Laura Colman
Ombudsman