DRN-2669632
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to deal with a 
request to transfer his pension savings to another provider in a timely manner. As a result he 
says the value of the transferred benefits was reduced by approximately £40,000.
What happened
I have issued two provisional decisions regarding this complaint. In my most recent 
provisional decision, issued in February 2021, I explained why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of that provisional decision, but for 
completeness I provide an extract of my findings below. I said;
I think that the majority of the early findings I made in my [first] provisional decision 
remain appropriate. But for clarity I will confirm that I am still of the opinion that;
Despite the incorrect information provided by Prudential I dont think it reasonable 
to expect Prudential to honour the information it provided and value date Mr Ts 
transfer at the date his transfer instruction was received.
I think that the transfer of Mr Ts pension savings took place more or less in line 
with the timescales that Prudential would expect. I have noted that Prudential 
feels that a strict application of its normal SLA might have expected the funds to 
be moved a day earlier, but I remain of the opinion that this didnt cause a 
financial loss to Mr T.
When looking at a complaint such as this, I need to consider two aspects. I look at 
whether something has gone wrong. And I look at whether that has caused the 
consumer to lose out. Or in the case of incorrect information being provided, whether the 
consumer might have acted differently had the right information been provided. And that 
was the basis on which I thought Mr Ts complaint should be upheld in my first 
provisional decision.
I still think that Mr T would have been very unhappy, given the volatility in the market, 
had he been told that his transfer, and the disinvestment of his pension investments, 
would take place at an unspecified date up to ten business days later. And so I think he 
might have looked at what steps were available to him to mitigate the risks of the value 
of his pension savings being reduced by adverse market movements. But following the 
additional information Prudential has provided to me, I now conclude there was little, if 
anything, that Mr T could have done to protect the value of his pension savings.
Prudential has confirmed that Mr Ts pension savings were held in two PruFund 
investments. And it has provided me with the T&Cs applicable to those funds. It is clear 
from those terms that any sale of those investments would be subject to a 28-day waiting 
period  I understand that is designed to protect the other investors in the fund from 
significant withdrawals at times such as when Mr T instructed his transfer.
So, despite Mr T understandably wanting to liquidate his pension investments before any 
unit price adjustment was applied, the T&Cs would have prevented him from doing so. 
He was only able to transfer his funds to another scheme earlier than the 28-day waiting 
period since Prudential generally waives the waiting period requirement for external 
transfers  though I should note that the T&Cs dont appear to require it to do so. 
That means that I cannot reasonably conclude that Mr T would have been able to act 
any differently even if Prudential had provided him with correct information at the outset 
of the transfer process. The transfer process itself left the exact timing of any transaction 
(within the general bounds of the accepted 10-day processing period) to Prudential. And 
any instruction from Mr T to liquidate his pension investments would have suffered a 28-
day notice period, and so wouldnt have been concluded any sooner.
I appreciate how disappointing my new provisional decision will be for Mr T. He was 
keen to protect the value of his pension savings from market volatility and the application 
of the unit price adjustment by Prudential. But unfortunately for him those options werent 
available to him given the nature of his investments and the T&Cs around his pension 
plan. So I no longer think that he would have acted differently if hed been given correct 
information by Prudential about the timescales. It follows that I no longer think this 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence to consider before 
I reached a final decision on the complaint. Prudential has told us that it doesnt have 
anything further to add. Mr T has provided some further comments and supporting evidence. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr T has said I want to reassure him that I have 
carefully read everything he has sent before reaching my final decision.
Mr T has shown that Prudential received the transfer request via the Origo system on 
12 March. Its terms and conditions say that it will facilitate the transfer out as soon as 
reasonably practical So Mr T has asked for clarification why Prudential relies on an 
agreement with the FCA that working to a 10-day service for transfers rather than what is 
contained in its terms and conditions.
Mr T says the contract note that Prudential provided for the sale of his investments before 
the transfer shows they were placed on Friday 27 March, with the funds being sent to the 
new provider the following day. But he says that Prudential has said the timeline for selling 
down funds would see the trades be placed on day 1, before settling 5 days later. 
Mr T says that Prudential was in control of all aspects of the transfer  it was the SIPP 
administrator, and was the parent company to the investment mangers of the funds in which 
he was invested. So his investments could have been sold at any time that Prudential chose. 
He understands that the functionality of the software used by Prudential to administer its 
retirement account product doesnt allow transactions to be backdated.
Mr T says that had the transaction been completed earlier he would have avoided the 
application of the unit price adjustment (UPA). That would have meant the value of his funds 
being transferred would have been higher.
Mr T doesnt agree that a 28-day waiting period applies to all sale transactions. He notes 
that I said it was waived for sales to allow transfers to other providers. And he says it is also 
waived for other reasons such as paying administration charges, and placing pension 
savings into drawdown. He says that after receiving my provisional decision he enquired 
about selling ISA holdings in the same funds as his pension savings were invested. He says 
he was told on two separate occasions that they would be sold the next day.So Mr T feels that Prudential had a number of opportunities to sell his holdings before the 
UPA was imposed. He thinks that Prudential chose not to take those selling opportunities 
and as a result he has lost out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided some detailed and careful arguments to support his complaint and I thank 
him for the time he has taken to express himself so clearly. I think that much of what he has 
said is entirely reasonable. It is clear that, in an ideal world, Prudential could have sold his 
holdings and transferred his pension savings to the new provider much sooner. But I think it 
is important for me to make the very clear distinction between what Prudential could do, 
and what Prudential should do.
When Mr T made his transfer request, it was against a backdrop of great market volatility. In 
fact Mr T said that volatility was one of the reasons he decided to transfer to another 
provider  since he thought its investment choices were better aligned to his risk appetite. So 
Prudential was facing a degree of pressure on both its investment funds, and its 
administration function. I think it fair to assume that meant that were a number of other 
consumers in a similar position to Mr T, making similar requests to either transfer, or 
disinvest their pension savings.
So, in line with the regulators guidance Prudential would need to take great care to ensure 
that it treated all consumers equally and processed any requests in an orderly manner. And 
that no doubt necessitated Prudential paying careful attention to the timelines it was required 
to follow under the terms and conditions of its products, and its agreements with the 
regulator about what might be reasonable.
I dont disagree with Mr Ts conclusion that Prudential could have processed his transfer 
request much sooner. And had it done so he might have avoided some of the reductions in 
value that the UPA imposed. But by doing so Prudential would have no doubt needed to 
prioritise Mr Ts request above that of other consumers  and most likely to the detriment of 
those consumers. I cannot conclude that would have been a fair approach.
I havent seen anything that suggests Prudential was required, under its terms and 
conditions or the regulators guidance, to process Mr Ts transfer request sooner than it did. 
I accept that when Mr T recently checked the processing timescales, at a far more stable 
time in the markets, that Prudential might have offered to execute his instruction far sooner. 
But I am mindful that Mr Ts enquiry related to a different product with different terms and 
conditions. And I dont think that Prudentials response now, implies that it acted incorrectly 
in March 2020.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr T. But the additional information he 
has provided to me hasnt altered my opinion that Prudential didnt act unfairly when it 
transferred his pension savings to the new provider. Prudential accepts that it might have 
given incorrect information to Mr Ts advisor at the outset of the process. But I dont think 
Mr T could have done anything differently at that time to prevent the UPA being applied to 
his pension investments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my earlier provisional decisions, I dont uphold the 
complaint or make any award against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman