DRN-3172844
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned down a claim he made on 
his business interruption insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr W held a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. He claimed on his policy after 
his business was forced to close in November 2020. 
Aviva turned down Mr Ws claim. They said the core business interruption cover provided by 
the policy required there to be damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to 
property. They added that although the policy covered loss due to a specified list of 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt think the policy 
provided cover for Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that hed paid his 
premium for a number of years and never made a claim. He didnt think it was fair for Aviva 
to refuse to pay his claim.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only commenting on Avivas decision in turning down Mr Ws claim 
following the closure of his business in November 2020. I understand Mr W has made claims 
for other periods of closure however, they would need to be dealt with as separate 
complaints. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ws business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ws claim.
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy requires there to have been 
damage to property used by Mr W at his premises. The policy defines damage as:
Physical loss, destruction or damage
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to Mr Ws property 
therefore, there is no cover for his claim under this section of the policy.
Prevention of access 
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers 
loss due to:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or 
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises.
For this to provide cover, Mr Ws loss would need to be due to damage to property 
within one mile of his premises which prevented or restricted access to, or use of, his 
premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property 
within one mile of Mr Ws premises that hindered or restricted access to or use of his 
premises. So this extension doesnt provide cover for his claim. 
Loss of attraction
This extension covers loss due to:
Damage to Property or premises within one mile of the boundary of Your 
Premises which causes a loss of Income directly due to a reduction in customers 
visiting the area.
While there may well have been a reduction of visitors to the area, I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property within one mile of Mr Ws premises which 
led to a reduction in visitors to the area. So Im afraid this doesnt provide cover either. 
Specified Disease
The relevant part of this extension covers loss due to:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the 
boundary of Your Premises
The policy says for the purpose of this extension a specified disease means any of the 
diseases listed. The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Ws policy is not like this 
 it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the 
wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might 
emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases 
and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr Ws claim.I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Mr Ws claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman