DRN-3606186
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC revealed her address to an abusive 
ex-partner.
What happened
Miss D had a current account with Barclays. In 2019, Miss D and her children moved to a 
different area, to escape an abusive ex-partner. The ex-partner had been violent towards 
Miss D over a period of years, as well as being verbally and emotionally abusive, and she 
has court orders against him.
Miss Ds new address was kept secret, to try to prevent her ex-partner from finding her. She 
had had to move address to escape him before. Shortly after signing her new tenancy 
agreement, Miss D received a letter from a third party who should not have been aware of 
her address. On speaking with the third party, Miss D was told theyd received her address 
from her ex-partner, which was shocking and very distressing for her. Miss D was deeply 
concerned that her ex-partner had knowledge of her new address. 
Miss Ds ex-partner then started harassing her and her children, and arranged for others to 
harass her. The campaign of abuse Miss Ds ex-partner conducted was extensive, including 
stalking, verbal intimidation and threats, threatening letters and calls, and attempts to break 
into the property. Miss D was in regular contact with the police about what was happening. 
She obtained further non-molestation orders from the courts.
Due to the intimidation and abuse, Miss D says she felt unable to remain at the property. 
She says she and her children spent a number of nights in hotels, as well as staying with 
friends and family. Miss D says she later lost her job due to the stress caused by the abuse. 
She says she was unable to apply for benefits due to the emotional toll, and due to lack of 
consistent internet access. She says that meant she fell into rent arrears. Miss D says her 
mental health suffered significantly due to what was happening.
Miss D says her ex-partner informed her that hed received her new address from a member 
of Barclays staff, who was a friend of his.
Miss D complained to Barclays. Barclays started an internal investigation. It found that the 
member of branch staff Miss D believed to have passed her address to her ex-partner had 
accessed Miss Ds records. The member of staff resigned prior to the conclusion of Barclays 
investigation and so Barclays employment investigation did not reach a conclusion on what 
had happened. But Barclays acknowledged that the staff member appeared to have 
accessed Miss Ds records and shared them with her ex-partner, and offered Miss D £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Miss D wasnt happy with Barclays offer and referred the complaint to our service. She 
moved her bank accounts elsewhere.
Following our involvement, Barclays made a further offer of a total of £5,000 for the distress 
and inconvenience to Miss D. Our investigator thought the offer was a reasonable way for 
Barclays to put things right.
Miss D disagreed. To resolve things, she wanted a total of £75,000, to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her, and to cover her rent arrears and lost income. Miss D 
would also like Barclays to report the member of staff to the police, as she is very concerned 
about that individual working for another bank and potentially the same thing happening 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about the abuse Miss D has experienced at the 
hands of her ex-partner over the last few years. I dont doubt how deeply distressing that has 
been for her and her children. And Im sure it was particularly upsetting when, having re-
located to a new area for their safety, he was able to find them again and further harass and 
intimidate her.
Id like to reassure Miss D that Ive carefully considered all of the information shes provided 
about the campaign of abuse her ex-partner carried out. All our decisions are anonymised, 
to protect the consumers identity and data. This is particularly important in Miss Ds case, 
and I have borne that in mind when laying out the facts of the case above. Ive not therefore 
gone into detail about what shes said.
As Barclays has made an offer to resolve Miss Ds complaint, it falls to me to decide whether 
that offer is fair. And in doing so Ive taken careful note of what Miss D has said about both 
the financial losses she says were caused, as well as the wider impact on her.
Miss D has told us that, some months after the data breach, she took two jobs in her chosen 
field, but lost them both fairly quickly because she found it difficult to manage her 
employment in the situation she found herself in  in particular, because of the impact on her 
mental health.
Ive looked at the evidence Miss D has provided, including letters from her employer, 
medical evidence and her testimony. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair to say that 
Barclays is responsible for the loss of her employment. The medical evidence she has given 
us is from 2022, not 2019 (the time of these events), so I can only attach limited weight to it. 
And even without the data breach, Miss D had been through a very difficult and traumatic 
time, which impacted her mental health. I must also bear in mind whether its foreseeable 
that a data breach by Barclays would have resulted in Miss D getting and then losing jobs 
some months later. On balance, I dont think I can say that Miss D would have kept the jobs 
but for the data breach, and so I dont think I can fairly ask Barclays to compensate Miss D 
for the jobs she lost some months later.
I also dont think I can reasonably ask Barclays to compensate Miss D for her rent arrears. 
Miss D would always have needed to pay the rent on the flat whether or not the data breach 
had happened. She accepts that, but says that she went into arrears because, following the 
discovery that her ex-partner had her new address and the events that followed, she was 
unable to complete her benefits claim and so could not pay the rent. 
Ive considered what she says about this, but I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
pay Miss Ds rent arrears. This is money she would always have had to pay, and the arrears 
were later deducted from her benefit at £25 per month, and so will have been mostly paid off by now. I also bear in mind that it was several weeks after she moved into the property 
before Miss D became aware that her ex-partner had discovered her new address, and a 
benefits claim could have been made in that time.
Miss D has also asked us to refund the costs she spent on staying in hotels because she no 
longer felt safe in her own home. She says she stayed in a number of budget hotels, 
charging around £40 per night, and also with friends and family. Shes not sure how many 
nights she stayed in hotels or how much the total cost was.
Weve asked Miss D to provide evidence of the costs she incurred, but shes not been able 
to do so. Shes told us that the hotels no longer retain any records. And that shes not been 
able to locate any she might have kept herself. She also said that she couldnt check her 
bank statements from the time as she didnt have them and no longer banked with Barclays.
To help with this, therefore, we asked Barclays for Miss Ds bank statements for the time. 
Ive looked at them carefully. But I cant see any evidence of hotel costs from around this 
time  either in the form of card payments, or in the form of cash withdrawals for the sort of 
sums shes told us about. 
Unfortunately, without any evidence of the costs incurred, its not possible for me to make an 
award here. Theres no way for me to know how much Miss D spent. And in fairness to 
Barclays, I can only award costs where theres evidence of loss. 
Ive also thought about whether the amount Barclays has offered is fair to compensate her 
for the considerable distress and inconvenience Miss D was put to when her ex-partner 
discovered her new address. 
Miss D had thought she had a fresh start  escaping years of extensive emotional and 
physical abuse. I dont underestimate the distress and anxiety she felt on discovering her 
ex-partner had her new address, or the extreme stress she was placed under during her 
ex-partners renewed intimidation and abuse, and the impact that had on her and her mental 
health. This continued  both directly, and via third parties  even after Miss D got fresh 
court orders. 
Miss D also had to make changes to her day to day routine to try to protect herself and her 
children, and  as Ive outlined above  felt unable to stay in her new home for a 
considerable period of time. I have borne that in mind when considering Barclays offer.
I do understand that Miss D wanted a higher award that she could use to start to re-build her 
life. And I also understand that in many ways money can never compensate her for 
everything she has been through. But I must also bear in mind that while Barclays accepts 
fault here and has made a substantial offer of compensation, what Miss D has experienced 
was because of the actions of her ex-partner, including the very serious incidents that led to 
her re-location in the first place  before he learned of the new address. I need to separate, 
as far as possible, the impact that flows directly from Barclays involvement from the broader 
circumstances Miss D finds herself in.
Ive also thought about the sorts of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service makes in 
similar cases (including the guidance on awards available on our website). In my view, 
taking everything into account, I think what Miss D has experienced merits an award at the 
upper end of the range of awards we generally make. Im satisfied that Barclays offer of 
£5,000 is consistent with that and is fair in all the circumstances. 
Finally, Miss D says that the police have told her they cant investigate what happened 
without a report from Barclays. And while I understand how much she wants this matter dealt with, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to direct Barclays to report this incident to 
the police, if it has not already done so. I havent seen the evidence of Barclays internal 
investigation, which in any case I understand didnt conclude before the employee resigned, 
so I cant say that it found sufficient evidence to justify a report. 
Ultimately its for Barclays to decide what further action was appropriate for it to take against 
any staff member involved. Barclays has explained that if it is asked to give a reference for 
the staff member, it will make clear they left during a disciplinary investigation, and I hope 
that to some extent reassures Miss D over her fears that the same could happen with her 
new bank.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. I direct it to pay Miss D £5,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman