DRN-3148470
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to make reasonable adjustments 
for him, treated him unfairly during his visits to his local branch and has discriminated 
against him. 
What happened
Mr H went into his local Santander branch on 9 September 2019 because hed lost his card 
and needed to order a replacement. He took a bank statement and a council tax bill with 
him. Santander didnt accept those documents for identification purposes. It said it could only 
accept photographic ID. Mr H was unhappy about this and said Santander hadnt required 
photo ID from him when hed gone into branch to order a new card in the past, because hes 
well known to staff. 
Mr H is registered disabled as hes partially blind. Hes said he felt discriminated against by 
Santander because of his disability and that a comment was made about his race. Hes also 
told us he was assaulted by a member of bank staff. 
On 11 September 2019, Mr H went to his local branch again. Staff were able to verify Mr Hs 
identity with the documents hed brought with him on that day. Mr H says these documents 
did not include any photo ID. Santander has said Mr H provided a driving license on this 
date, which Mr H has strongly refuted.
On 16 September 2019, Mr H visited his local branch to get a mini-statement and collect the 
benefit money he needed. But he said a branch manager told staff not to serve him. 
Santander says this was due to Mr Hs behaviour in branch. Santander decided to close 
Mr Hs account as a result of this behaviour and wrote to Mr H to let him know it would be 
terminating its relationship with him. It then reconsidered this decision and Mr Hs account 
remained open. 
Mr H complained to Santander, saying hed received poor treatment both in branch and over 
the phone. Santander said it hadnt acted unreasonably in its dealings with Mr H. Unhappy 
with Santanders responses, Mr H referred his complaints to our service. He told our 
investigator that Santander had also failed to make reasonable adjustments for him 
because, despite agreeing to send him letters in the large print he requires due to his visual 
impairment, it was still sending him correspondence in a smaller print which he couldnt read.
Our investigator considered the issues and said that we didnt have enough evidence of 
what had happened during Mr Hs various visits to branch to say hed been treated unfairly. 
But he did think Santander had treated Mr H unfairly in not ensuring it only sent letters in the 
large print Mr H requires due to his visual impairment. He recommended Santander pay 
Mr H £50 compensation for this. 
Santander didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said it had actioned the request for 
large print correspondence and wanted to see evidence that Mr H had received letters in 
small print since the date he first made them aware of his needs. 
Mr H also didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said Santander had continued 
to send him letters in small print and didnt properly deal with a data subject access request 
(DSAR) hed made, when it didnt give him CCTV footage and transcripts of phone calls in a 
timely manner. 
Following a further assessment by our investigator, Santander increased its offer of 
compensation to £250. Mr H didnt accept the increased offer and wanted an ombudsman to 
look at everything again. So the complaint was referred to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in this case on 26 August 2021. In summary, I provisionally 
determined that:
Mr H had received poor treatment in branch on 9 September 2019 and 16 September 
2019. I said that although only a court could make a legal finding that Mr H had been 
discriminated against because of his disability or his race, I thought the steps 
Santander had taken against him were disproportionate.
Santander had failed to properly investigate Mr Hs complaint by not reviewing CCTV 
evidence of the incidents in branch.
Santander provided a poor service to Mr H by giving him conflicting information about 
which forms of ID hed need to present in branch to order a replacement card.
Mr H did not receive a poor level of service generally from Santander over the phone.
Santander had acted unfairly by not sending Mr H letters in the large print he requires 
due to his visual impairment.
There was an avoidable delay in Santander dealing with Mr Hs DSARs.
Taking into account the impact of everything that had happened, I thought Santander 
should pay Mr H £950 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had 
experienced overall.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Ill summarise the key points Mr H and 
Santander made in response, but I wont include here all the submissions I received. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party. It simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. Id like to reassure both Santander and Mr H that  even though I wont refer 
specifically to all the points theyve made  Ive thought carefully about everything thats 
been said and will focus my decision on what I consider to be the key issues.
In response to my provisional decision Santander said:
It didnt think its branch staff had acted unreasonably on 9 September 2019 or 
16 September 2019  and it specifically refuted the suggestion that a member of staff 
had ever placed their hands on a customer or spoken to a customer in the manner 
described by Mr H.
Mr Hs behaviour in branch was, on occasion, unacceptable and it was necessary to 
put in place measures to protect staff.
It strongly refutes any suggestion that Mr Hs treatment by members of branch staff 
was in any way influenced by his race.
It agreed that, at times, it had provided a poor service to Mr H, and agreed to pay the level of compensation outlined in my provisional decision.
Mr H said, in response to my provisional decision:
Hed never provided Santander with a driving license for ID purposes and he hadnt 
had a driving license in over ten years due to his poor vision. He also asked for any 
incorrect references to him providing a driving license as ID to be removed from 
Santanders systems.
Santander had continued to send him letters in small print since the date of my 
provisional decision. He said that for continuing not to send letters in the large print 
he requires, Santander should make a further compensation payment.
Santanders conduct had created an intimidating, hostile, degrading and offensive 
environment for him.
He wants Santander to accept non-photo ID from customers who dont have photo 
ID, for the purposes of reporting a lost card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having carefully considered the responses from both parties to my 
provisional decision, I still dont think Santander has treated Mr H fairly and Im upholding the 
complaint broadly in line with my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Mr Hs visit to branch on 9 September 2019
There are two key issues Mr H has raised for this service to investigate in relation to this 
branch visit. 
The first is why Mr H couldnt carry out the transaction he wanted to carry out on this date, 
when hed brought the same documents he says hed used many times before. 
The second is the treatment he says he received following this, including allegations of:
- security screens being used to prevent him speaking to staff;
- an exchange taking place in which Mr Hs race was mentioned; and
- staff assaulting Mr H. 
In relation to Mr Hs visit to his local branch on 9 September 2019, I said in my provisional 
decision that there were conflicting accounts of what happened on that date. Mr H said when 
he went into branch to report his lost card and to request a statement, he took a council tax 
bill and a bank statement with him. These werent accepted by the branch as identification 
documents, and so Mr H wasnt able to reorder his card on that day. I also highlighted that 
from the Customer Identification Requirements table that Santander had provided, I could 
see that both council tax bills and bank statements would fall under proof of address and not 
proof of identity and would therefore not be acceptable documents for the purposes of 
transacting in branch. So I said I could understand why Mr H was unable to re-order his card 
and request a statement in branch on that day. 
However, Mr H also told us this wasnt consistent with his experiences of being able to order 
replacement cards with non-photo ID. And Santander was unable to confirm that Mr Hs account of previous experiences was inaccurate, so I said I considered it likely that 
Santander had allowed Mr H to order a replacement card with those documents in the past. 
Mr H also referred to a series of incidents which he says happened in branch on 
9 September, including being assaulted by a member of staff, staff members activating 
security screens and staff speaking to Mr H in an unacceptable way. 
As I said in my provisional decision, due to the passage of time, we dont have enough 
evidence  such as CCTV footage  of what happened during the various branch visits. But, 
even if there was evidence of an assault, that would be a matter for Mr H to refer to the 
police and not to this service, as we cannot make a finding on whether a crime has been 
committed  only a court can do that. However, I can consider whether Mr H was treated 
fairly, and Im not persuaded that Santander did treat Mr H fairly during this branch visit. 
Mr Hs testimony in relation to the branch visit is consistent throughout all the calls hes had 
with our service, throughout the calls hes had with Santander, and throughout his written 
correspondence. He refers to security screens being activated despite his belief that he 
didnt do anything wrong. Santander says branch screens can be deployed if a member of 
staff feels threatened, or they can be used to diffuse conversations which are escalating in 
the event of a potentially volatile or heated situation. Santander has also said Mr H refused 
to leave the till area which meant other customers who were waiting couldnt be served.
In relation to the first issue Im considering, about why Mr H wasnt able to carry out the 
transaction he wanted to carry out, Santander hasnt added anything further in response to 
my provisional findings that Mr H was given inconsistent information about which documents 
hed need to order a replacement card. And looking at Mr Hs card history, I can see that he 
has regularly re-ordered cards, which supports his account of frequently losing cards due to 
his visual impairment. 
Mr H has been consistent in his assertion that he hasnt held a driving license for over a 
decade, and from the evidence I can see hes been able to re-order numerous cards. I find 
his account on this issue credible, and I note that Santander has not been able to provide 
evidence that would help establish that it has not previously accepted proof of address 
documents in similar circumstances. Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that 
Mr Hs account is more likely to be accurate, particularly given the fact that when he phoned 
Santander later that day he was told that, in cases where photo ID was not available, 
Santander may accept other forms of ID. 
So I consider that in telling Mr H he would need photo ID, some confusion was caused and 
this highlighted that there were some inconsistencies in Santanders practices. Im satisfied 
that this made Mr H feel uncertain about what sort of ID was actually required, and that it led 
to Mr H challenging this information in branch. 
I also explained in my provisional decision why Im persuaded Mr H received inconsistent 
information on the phone and the impact I think this had on him. Mr H phoned Santander to 
make a complaint on the same day, about his treatment in branch. Having listened to a 
recording of that call, I think Santander couldve given Mr H clearer information. I say this 
because the adviser specifically told Mr H initially that hed need photographic ID to re-order 
his card. And Ill explain why Im satisfied thats not correct and caused Mr H confusion.
Santander sent us its Customer Identification Requirements table, which lists acceptable ID 
documents, including non-photo ID such as evidence of entitlement to benefits. Santander 
later told us that this table is only for documents required when opening new accounts. The 
adviser on the phone, however, read Mr H the full list of non-photo ID that would be 
accepted in branch from that document, after first repeatedly telling Mr H that only photo ID would be accepted. 
Mr H believes its incorrect that only photo ID is accepted, as he says hes been able to order 
a new card with non-photo ID in the past. Later in the call, after checking with a colleague, 
the adviser tells Mr H that further documents can be accepted if photo ID isnt available. But 
Mr H has difficulty understanding her, having to ask her a number of times to repeat herself. 
So Ive considered whether it would be clear to a customer, from what the adviser said, that 
certain documents could be taken into branch as identification. And from listening to the call, 
I dont think it wouldve been clear, as the adviser speaks quickly, and doesnt provide further 
clarity when Mr H asks her questions.
For example, Mr H asks the adviser where he can access the list of acceptable ID 
documents online, and the adviser tells him he can find it using a search engine, which I 
dont consider to be a helpful response to a customer, particularly a customer with a 
disability. Mr H then asks again where he can access that information and the adviser 
proceeds to quickly run through sections of the website that would supposedly lead a 
customer to the requested information. But having followed the advisers instructions, I note 
that these do not appear to lead to a list of identification documents. 
Its possible that Santanders website has changed since the date of this phone call. But 
when using a search engine to look for Santanders customer identification documents, as 
the adviser suggests to Mr H, this currently leads to the Customer Identification 
Requirements table which Santander has now told us is only for account opening purposes. 
So I think even for an able-bodied customer, the advisers comments wouldve caused some 
confusion. But as Mr H is partially-sighted and would need to ask someone else to help him 
visit a website, I think the advisers lack of clarity wouldve caused considerable uncertainty. 
Its evident that the phone conversation on 9 September wasnt an easy one for either party. 
I can appreciate why the adviser at times mightve felt patronised by some of the things Mr H 
said to her. And I dont think it was unreasonable for her to put Mr H on hold to seek 
guidance from a colleague. But considering the reason for the call, I think clearer information 
shouldve been given about the ID Mr H would need to take into branch in order to request a 
replacement card. 
And, as Ive mentioned, Mr H has said he often loses cards due to his visual impairment. So 
I think it was important for him to get accurate information about what hed need to do to re-
order cards, because of how often he needs to do this, and also because of the difficulties in 
him visiting a branch due to his visual impairment. So I think the impact on Mr H of the 
inconsistent information given to him was sufficient to cause him a degree of distress and 
inconvenience.
I note that Mr H wants Santander to accept non-photo ID from customers who dont have 
photo ID, for the purposes of ordering replacement cards. But I cant require Santander to 
change its internal policies or procedures  I can only look at whats happened in this 
complaint and direct Santander to put things right based on the impact the events 
complained about had on Mr H. So Im unable to comment on Santanders ID requirements.
In relation to the second issue, Santander says its use of security screens was due to Mr Hs 
inappropriate behaviour. Its said Mr H was verbally aggressive and refused to leave the till 
area, but it hasnt described the behaviour in much detail. This could be due to the fact that it 
doesnt appear to have kept a proper record of the interaction, and because due to the 
passage of time staff are unable to recall the incident fully. 
I noted in my provisional decision that Mr H says he wasnt using bad language or behaving 
in a hostile manner, and that he repeatedly mentioned, during the phone call with Santander on the same day, that this will be evident from the branch CCTV footage, which he 
encouraged the complaints handler to view. As the phone call was made soon after the 
incident, a proper investigation into the complaint wouldve involved the complaints handler 
viewing the footage. However, in the contact notes, the case handler explained that she did 
not feel the need to review the footage as the branch manager had informed her of what had 
happened. This does not indicate that a balanced investigation into the complaint took place, 
rather that the complaints team believed the branch managers account over the customers 
without good reason. I said in my provisional decision that I didnt consider it reasonable that 
CCTV footage wasnt viewed and retained following this complaint being raised. 
I also referred in my provisional decision to Santanders internal policies for dealing with 
violent, disruptive or abusive customers, serial or disruptive complainants and workplace 
violence. The first policy describes examples of abusive behaviour, including unwanted 
physical contact, racist remarks, and humiliation. Im satisfied based on the testimony of both 
parties, that Mr Hs behaviour was not abusive. The first two policies also make clear that 
staff should consider a customers vulnerability  such as a long-term physical impairment  
as an exceptional circumstance and should be mindful of this when interacting with the 
customer. I cant see that Santander staff made any allowance for Mr Hs visual impairment. 
The final policy Ive seen guides staff to take care when dealing with aggressive behaviour 
from people under the influence. I dont think the staff testimony suggesting Mr H was 
intoxicated is particularly compelling. Branch staff have said he was unable to walk in a 
straight line and was unable to speak properly. But given that Mr H phoned Santander 
shortly after visiting the branch, did not seem intoxicated during the call, and repeatedly 
asked staff to view the CCTV footage and listen to any recordings of the conversations that 
took place, I find it unlikely that he wouldve been behaving in the erratic manner described 
by staff. Branch staff also refer to Mr Hs eyes being glazed over  but given Mr Hs visual 
impairment, I think this, and the remark about Mr H being unable to walk in a straight line, 
are both unfair comments to make.
So, having carefully considered what both sides have said about the incident, I accept it may 
have been difficult for branch staff to serve Mr H or to help him understand why he couldnt 
carry out transactions on that day. But Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that staff 
misapprehended Mr Hs behaviour as aggression, when it is more likely that staff found him 
difficult to deal with due to his persistence in challenging what he was being told. 
Ive also found Mr Hs testimony about what happened in branch to be both plausible and 
persuasive  based on the confidence and consistency of his testimony and the fact that he 
repeatedly refers to CCTV footage, to support his claim that he didnt behave unreasonably. 
I think its unlikely that a customer in Mr Hs position wouldve been as adamant as he was, 
about what the CCTV footage would show, if he was behaving unreasonably. And in the 
absence of any such footage, Im not satisfied that the account given by Santander is 
sufficiently detailed or compelling to displace my view that Mr H, while understandably upset, 
was not behaving in an aggressive manner. And that staff could and should have handled 
the situation in a way that wouldve been more helpful to a clearly frustrated customer, and 
particularly to a customer with a disability. 
Mr H has said he feels he was discriminated against on the grounds of his disability and that 
comments were made about his race. As I said in my provisional decision, alleged breaches 
of the Equality Act 2010 are a matter for the courts to determine  and so I cannot make a 
finding on whether or not Santander has acted unlawfully in discriminating against Mr H on 
the basis of a protected characteristic. But I can consider whether Mr H was treated in a fair 
and reasonable manner.
Mr H has said that Santanders use of the security screens made him feel like a criminal and 
that he felt humiliated as a result of the incident. Santander has maintained that Mr Hs behaviour wasnt acceptable because he was refusing to leave. I accept that a customer 
refusing to leave the till area of the branch, making it harder for other customers to be 
served, wouldve presented significant difficulties for staff. And I appreciate Santanders 
position that the actions it took were to protect its staff. However, Im still not persuaded that 
Mr Hs behaviour warranted the actions that were taken.
I consider the actions taken to have been disproportionate because, when first asked about 
the incident, Santander said Mr H accused the branch of racial discrimination and became 
verbally aggressive, at which point the screens came up and the branch phoned the police. 
But no details have been provided about what Mr H said to staff that was verbally 
aggressive, no notes were left at the time describing Mr Hs behaviour as unacceptable 
during the visit, and Mr Hs recollection of events is quite different from Santanders. He says 
he wasnt raising his voice or using bad language during the interaction, he was simply 
challenging the information he was being given. 
As there are no contemporaneous notes of the incident and CCTV footage wasnt viewed or 
retained, I cant be certain of what happened. However, as I said in my provisional decision, I 
dont think Santander acted fairly and I think it couldve handled things differently. It hasnt 
explained, in response to my provisional decision, why no allowance was made for Mr Hs 
disability in its dealings with him  as its own Violent, disruptive or abusive customers 
policy recommends. Santander hasnt said its staff attempted to speak to Mr H away from 
other customers, for example, or take him to a semi-private area or a separate room to 
discuss his concerns. And as Ive explained, Im not persuaded Mr H was behaving in an 
unreasonable manner, and I think that  although staff may have found the situation 
challenging  Santander did not need to take the action it did against Mr H, for challenging 
what he was being told. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr H also referred to comments made by the 
branch manager, allegedly asking Mr H not to bring race into it when Mr H said he felt 
discriminated against, and allegedly accusing Mr H of being racist. 
I dont think its acceptable for a member of staff to have assumed Mr H was talking about 
racial discrimination, just because he is black. As staff should be aware, there are many 
forms of discrimination  and neither Mr H nor Santander have said a conversation took 
place to try to understand why Mr H felt discriminated against. I think it wouldve been more 
helpful for the branch manager to engage in such a conversation, instead of dismissing 
Mr Hs concerns and accusing Mr H of racism. Santander has said the branch cannot 
confirm or deny whether these comments were made to Mr H, and has therefore extended 
its apologies to Mr H through this service.
Santander has said in response to my provisional decision that the testimony of its staff has 
been as plausible and consistent as Mr Hs. But I dont agree that it always has been. 
Santanders accounts arent as detailed for example  and Im conscious that this is due to 
the passage of time and poor record-keeping. But I think Mr H has been more consistent 
even when I take those factors into account. For example, Santander has repeatedly told 
this service that Mr Hs behaviour in branch was inappropriate. But it didnt mention this to 
Mr H when it wrote to him one day later about his complaint, on 10 September. And when 
initially questioned about why it hadnt used discretion in allowing Mr H to produce non-photo 
ID, Santander told this service the branch didnt feel comfortable using that discretion due to 
Mr Hs vexatious behaviour. When asked what it was about Mr Hs behaviour that was 
vexatious, Santander said the number of complaints hed raised made staff uncomfortable. 
But again, there was no mention of Mr H being aggressive in branch. There was also no 
mention that discretion wasnt used because Mr H wasnt a known customer  something 
that Santander has later said was the main reason Mr H was asked for photo ID.I also think it more likely than not that the branch managers initial recollection that Mr H 
accused him of racial discrimination is inaccurate. Mr H has consistently told this service (as 
he told Santander over the phone soon after the incident), that he felt discriminated against 
but that he never mentioned race. He says the branch manager responded to his 
discrimination allegation by saying Dont bring race into it, that is racist and that Mr H didnt 
understand this because he hadnt brought up race at the time. 
Whilst Ive taken account of both parties testimony in relation to this branch visit, Ive placed 
more weight on evidence from nearer the time, because I think such evidence is likely to be 
more accurate than the recollections of Mr H and branch staff now  over two years later. 
Santander has provided us with the branch managers recollections from October 2019  
over a month after the incident, and these mention the conversation between Mr H and the 
manager deteriorating. But theres very little additional detail about what was said. 
Mr H phoned Santander on the same day as the branch visit, to complain about the way staff 
had treated him. His testimony in relation to the incident is consistent with the letters hes 
written to Santander and to this service. And during the phone call to Santander he 
describes in detail the conversations that took place in branch, including the exchange in 
which the branch manager mentioned race. The proximity of this phone call to the incident, 
as well as the confidence and consistency of Mr Hs testimony, makes me think its more 
reliable than the information Santander has provided and that its unlikely Mr H made this up 
or misremembered what was said.
Santander hasnt said that the comment wasnt made to Mr H. So Im persuaded that a 
comment mentioning race was most likely made during the exchange in branch and that it 
wouldve been upsetting for Mr H to hear. And because Mr H hadnt mentioned racial 
discrimination himself, I can understand why he might have felt his race was a factor in his 
treatment, when the branch manager drew attention to his race by bringing it up in this way.
Santander has challenged robustly the notion that any of its staff might have treated Mr H 
unfairly due to his race or his disability. Its explained that its an equal opportunities 
employer and that the staff in branch have received extensive customer service training and 
excellent feedback from customers. Its also said theres no evidence to suggest that its staff 
discriminated against Mr H. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I cannot and have not made a legal finding that 
Mr H was discriminated against on the basis of his disability or his race. Thats a matter for a 
court to determine and not for this service. However, Mr Hs testimony is evidence and I 
consider there to be consistency, credibility and significant detail in the things hes said, 
which is why Ive placed more weight on it than on the testimony of branch staff which isnt 
as detailed or consistent. Ive considered carefully what Santander has said about what took 
place in branch. And I can appreciate why staff found Mr H to be a difficult customer on the 
day, because he was unwilling to accept what he was being told. But I still think it acted 
disproportionately in response to Mr Hs behaviour. 
So all things considered, I can understand how Santanders actions led to Mr Hs perception 
that he was being treated adversely due to his race. Its possible that the branch manager 
was merely seeking to defend what he felt was an unfair accusation. But Im satisfied that 
the response given by the manager was unhelpful, and that the matter couldve been 
handled differently. 
In relation to Mr Hs allegation that he was assaulted, in my provisional decision I noted that 
Mr H said the branch manager shouted at him, which made him feel humiliated in front of 
other customers, and that a staff member put his hand on Mr H. Mr H described it as being 
poked and referred to the area near his chest and shoulder. Santander said Mr H might have been referring to when a pen brushed past his shoulder. 
However, I said in my provisional decision that I didnt understand how a pen might brush 
past someones chest/shoulder area or how this would create the same sensation as being 
poked in a deliberate manner by someones hand. And as Ive found Mr Hs testimony to be 
consistent in relation to the incident, I still think its likely the incident involved more than just 
a pen brushing past Mr Hs shoulder.
Santander has strongly refuted the suggestion that any member of staff would put their 
hands on a customer in the way Mr H has described. It has said one member of staff placed 
their hand on Mr Hs shoulder to direct Mr H towards the exit. I dont think that wouldve been 
unreasonable. And as Ive pointed out in my provisional decision, I cant say Mr H was 
assaulted. Only a court can determine that.  
Ive been mindful, in my consideration of what happened on 9 September, of what Santander 
describes as Mr Hs aggressive behaviour. And I appreciate the need for banks to protect 
staff from customers who might pose a risk. But as Ive mentioned, Santanders assertions 
that Mr H was behaving in an aggressive manner are inconsistent with its final response 
letter dated 10 September 2019 to Mr H, the day after the incident and after Mr H had 
complained. In this letter Santander apologised for the poor service Mr H had said he 
received and said it had provided feedback to the branch. Theres no mention of Mr H 
behaving inappropriately towards staff. 
Theres also a lack of detail in Santanders own notes from around the time about what 
exactly Mr H was doing or saying that was threatening or abusive, such that it would warrant 
the use of security screens or a call to the police. So, as Ive said above, I think other steps 
couldve been taken beforehand, and that the action that was taken on this date was both 
disproportionate and premature. Overall, I consider that elements of Mr Hs treatment in 
branch on this date were unfair. So Im going to require Santander to pay compensation as 
outlined in my provisional decision, for the distress and inconvenience Mr H experienced.
Mr Hs visit to branch on 11 September 2019
In relation to the visit on 11 September, I said in my provisional decision that the evidence 
shows Mr H was able to order a replacement card during this visit, and staff were able to 
verify his identity using the documents he produced. So Im satisfied Mr H wasnt treated 
unfairly on this occasion. 
However, Mr H says the branch accepted his council tax bill and bank statement during this 
visit  as it had done many times previously when he had mislaid his card and requested a 
new one. Santander, however, says Mr H provided a driving license, which is why he was 
able to request a new card. Mr Hs testimony in relation to the documents he provided is 
consistent and persuasive and he has told us he has never provided a driving license as ID. 
While I cant be certain of which documents were provided, Im persuaded that 
misinformation and inconsistent practices have left Mr H feeling confused and distressed  
at a time when he was in urgent need of a new card.Mr H has made the point that he hasnt held a driving license in over ten years and wants 
Santander to remove all references to him producing a driving license from its system, as 
these are incorrect. There is credibility in what Mr H is saying and hes sent me evidence to 
support his position such as driving and sight loss information from the RNIB. Santander has 
told me it is able to remove any references to Mr H using a driving license as a form of ID 
from its systems. As Mr H would like these references removed, I think it would be helpful for 
Santander to remove them. In addition, Santander has told me there is a permanent record 
on Mr Hs customer profile which makes colleagues aware that he does not hold a driving 
license to produce for identification purposes, which I also think is helpful.
Mr Hs visit to branch on 16 September 2019
Mr H visited the branch again on 16 September. In my provisional decision, I noted that Mr H 
was refused service on that date. Santander has said this was due to Mr Hs behaviour in 
branch. It says Mr H appeared intoxicated and that his behaviour was erratic. However, I 
havent received enough evidence, such as more detailed testimony or CCTV footage, to 
persuade me that Mr H was indeed intoxicated or behaving unreasonably.
Santander took the decision to close Mr Hs account but later decided against doing so. In 
the absence of persuasive evidence that Mr H was behaving unreasonably, Im not satisfied 
that Santanders initial decision to close his account was fair. And I think the final response 
letter sent to Mr H, advising him that Santander was terminating its relationship with him, 
wouldve caused him distress. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, Santanders own policy regarding account closure 
requires it to consider exceptional circumstances and vulnerabilities like a long-term physical 
impairment, and highlights the options available to continue a relationship with a customer. 
These include giving the customer a written warning which clearly sets out expectations for 
future behaviour, or offering a personal service with a named individual in branch until issues 
are resolved. I cant see that either of these options were explored before Santander wrote 
to Mr H about terminating the relationship.
Santander has maintained, in its response to my provisional decision, that Mr H was 
behaving inappropriately towards branch staff. I can appreciate, as Ive said previously, the 
need for Santander to protect its staff from abusive customers. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that Mr H was intoxicated or abusive. And even if he was 
intoxicated in branch, Santander hasnt explained why it responded disproportionately by 
telling Mr H it would close his account before considering other options. And although it 
decided not to do so, I still think Mr H should be compensated for the worry that Santander 
caused when it said it would be terminating its relationship with him. This is because, 
according to Santanders own policy, steps were missed which couldve helped in managing 
both Mr Hs behaviour and the ongoing relationship between Mr H and Santander. Mr H had 
banked with Santander for many years and wouldve found it difficult to change banks due to 
his disability, so I think missing out these steps and sending Mr H a letter terminating the 
relationship, before considering other options, wouldve caused him distress.
Mr Hs Data Subject Access Requests (DSARs)
I said in my provisional decision that Id considered Mr Hs concerns about the way 
Santander had dealt with his DSARs. Mr H had requested the information Santander held 
about him together with transcripts of phone calls and CCTV footage. He was unhappy 
about the delays in dealing with his requests. 
Whilst I sympathised with the problems Mr H had, I explained that issues around how a 
business has dealt with a DSAR are for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to investigate and respond to. So if Mr H remains unhappy with how Santander has dealt with 
his DSARs, he can refer his concerns to the ICO to investigate. 
However, I said I could consider the impact of any delays in Santanders handling of the 
DSARs. These requests were made to Santander verbally in September 2019 and Mr H 
expected a response by 30 November 2019.
Mr H later found out he had to put the requests in writing, which he says he wasnt told to do 
in September. As Mr H has a visual impairment, I highlighted in my provisional decision my 
concerns that Santanders failure to log the DSARs properly from the outset, and only later 
asking Mr H to put the requests in writing, wasnt a fair way to treat a disabled customer and 
caused unnecessary delays.
Neither party commented further on what I said about the handling of the DSARs, so I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings in relation to this aspect of Mr Hs complaint 
and will require Santander to pay Mr H compensation for its handling of the requests.
Sending Mr H correspondence in large print
Mr H also said Santander failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. I said in my 
provisional decision that Id considered Mr Hs recent letters to our service, in which he 
explains that Santander continues to make errors such as sending out letters to him in small 
font. But I can only consider complaint issues that were raised by Mr H and dealt with before 
Santander issued its most recent final response letter to him, and therefore issues that 
Santander has had a fair opportunity to respond to. 
Mr H says he told Santander he was partially-sighted and required reasonable adjustments 
to the way Santander communicated with him, as early as June 2019. Santanders records 
show it was aware of Mr Hs disability and the request for reasonable adjustments from 
October 2019. 
However, since October 2019, Santander has sent a number of letters to Mr H in a smaller 
sized font than he requires. I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think this was fair.
Following my provisional decision, Santander hasnt added anything in respect of this aspect 
of Mr Hs complaint. Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say he continues to 
receive letters in small print from Santander. I explained to Mr H, as I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, that I wouldnt be able to comment on those letters as part of my 
consideration of this complaint, as these were new issues, and if he wanted to, he could 
raise a new complaint with Santander about them. 
I asked Santander to investigate why letters were still being sent to Mr H in an inaccessible 
format, and to ensure Mr H is only sent correspondence in large print going forward, to avoid 
further issues and complaints arising. It has apologised for the error and told me that the 
team managing Mr Hs communications going forward is aware of his requirements.
Santander has accepted that it provided a poor service when it didnt send Mr H letters in the 
large print he requires due to his visual impairment. I think receiving letters from Santander 
but not being able to easily read the correspondence sent to him wouldve caused Mr H 
significant frustration and inconvenience. So I wont be changing what I said in my 
provisional decision about this and will require Santander to compensate Mr H for the impact 
those failings had on him.Santanders customer service
Mr H complained about Santanders general level of customer service, saying hes been 
spoken to unprofessionally, that hes been put on hold for long periods of time during phone 
calls, that staff havent completed requests hes asked them to, that advisers have 
terminated calls and that hes experienced generally poor service over the phone. 
I said in my provisional decision, that having listened to recordings of the phone calls Mr H 
refers to, I didnt think Santander had provided a poor level of service generally, though as 
Ive explained in this decision, some of the information hed been given over the phone 
couldve been clearer. I said that I was satisfied that when Mr H had been placed on hold, it 
was so that advisers could seek help from colleagues, in order to assist him. 
I also said that I thought, from listening to the call recordings, that when phone calls had 
been terminated, it was because conversations had become unproductive. I said that while I 
could appreciate the frustration Mr H wouldve experienced during some of those calls, I 
wasnt persuaded that Santanders advisers had been generally unprofessional.
Neither party had anything further to add about Santanders general level of customer 
service, so I wont change what I said in my provisional decision about this. And I dont 
consider the level of customer service Mr H received over the phone generally to have been 
inadequate. I appreciate there were times when Mr Hs tone made it difficult for staff 
members to speak to him or help him. And I think staff dealt well in general with calls that 
were sometimes unproductive as a result of Mr Hs increasing frustration and persistence.
Putting things right
Santander must put things right for Mr H in line with my provisional decision, by 
compensating him for what I consider to be significant distress and inconvenience following 
the events referred to in this complaint, and for the reasons Ive explained above.
Whilst I dont think the service Mr H received from Santander was poor at all times, I do think 
numerous mistakes were made in Santanders dealings with Mr H in branch, over the phone 
and in writing, and in Santander failing to properly investigate his complaints. 
So Im directing Santander to issue a written apology to Mr H and to pay him £950 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced overall. This award 
includes the £250 Santander has already offered to Mr H.
It is for both parties to now reflect on my final decision. It would be disappointing for this 
service to receive further complaints about matters already dealt with in this decision. And so 
I hope that following some reflection, both Mr H and Santander can draw a line under the 
issues Ive addressed and can move forward in a way that helps to foster a positive and 
mutually beneficial relationship between the parties. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to:
Apologise to Mr H in writing, and in the large print he requires due to his visual 
impairment, for the unfair treatment and poor service he has received.
Pay Mr H a total of £950 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced overall.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman