DRN-1840739
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service he received from Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited in 
relation to an investment bond he held with it. Hes unhappy he wasnt given prior notice that 
his regular withdrawals could no longer be met due to the low value of the fund. As a result, 
he wasnt able to make alternative arrangements to ensure the expenditure that the regular 
withdrawals were used for was met by other means.
What happened
Mr M took out an investment bond, which also included life cover in 1999. An automatic 
withdrawal payment of £300 per month was set up on one of the funds in the bond which 
was regularly paid to Mr M at the end of each month.
In December 2018 the regular payment from the bond wasnt made. Mr M contacted Aviva 
and was told that the fund was running low and his December payment was still being 
calculated. He was also told by Aviva that the payment of £300 due on January 2019 was 
likely to be the last due to the low value of the fund.
In January 2019 Aviva wrote to Mr M and accepted it hadnt provided a good service to him. 
It explained why the payment had been delayed but agreed it should have ensured it was 
made in time. It confirmed the payment due in January would be made and also stated that it 
should have written to Mr M six months prior to the funds getting low to give him time to 
decide what to do about future withdrawals. It offered Mr M £500 for the mistake.
Mr M also didnt receive his payment in January 2019 so he contacted Aviva again but this 
time through a representative, one of his daughters. She explained the situation had become 
very distressing for Mr M and that Aviva should have given him more notice about the low 
value of the fund so he couldve made other financial arrangements.
In February 2019 Aviva wrote to Mr M again. It explained that while there was no legal 
requirement for it to write to bond holders when their fund values were getting low and so 
their income payments might not be supported, it agreed it hadnt provided a good service 
and should have done more to help him. It offered Mr M £700 in recognition of this.
Unhappy with this response the representative brought Mr Ms complaint to this Service. She 
complained that she felt Aviva had treated Mr M unfairly and unreasonably by not giving him 
six months notice that the fund was running low. She also stated that Aviva had confirmed in 
2017 that Mr M would receive £300 a month for the rest of his lifetime regardless of the 
value of the fund. She felt that to put things right Aviva should pay Mr M a total of £1,800 
which represented £300 for each month of the notice period of six months she felt he should 
have been given.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
acknowledged that Aviva had accepted it should have done more to help Mr M and agreed 
the offer of £700 it had made was reasonable and in line with the approach of this Service in 
similar complaints. He also listened to the telephone calls of 2017 but couldnt find anything 
that confirmed Aviva would pay £300 for the rest of Mr Ms life regardless of what the value 
of the fund was. He concluded that this was due to a misunderstanding on the part of Mr Ms 
daughter and the representatives sister who was part of the telephone conversation.
The representative on behalf of Mr M didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the 
view Aviva had to do more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator.
I agree that Aviva should have made the regular payments Mr M was expecting in December 
2018 and January 2019. I fully appreciate why this would have caused distress and worry to 
Mr M as well as being told future payments would no longer be made due to the low value of 
the fund. However, I am pleased to see that Aviva has accepted it could have done more 
and that it has offered a significant sum in recognition of this. In my view this is sufficiently 
representative of the distress and inconvenience Avivas actions has caused Mr M.
I know the representative says Mr M should be paid £1,800 but this is simply unwarranted. 
Its agreed that more notice should have been given to Mr M to allow him to manage his 
finances. Had he been given proper notice arrangements could have been made earlier for 
the regular payments to be met from the other fund which had enough of a value to allow 
this and no payments would have been missed and no distress caused. However, while 
Aviva stated in a letter that it should have given Mr M six months notice of the low fund 
value it isnt a legal requirement for this Aviva to do this. So while there is no doubt this 
would have been good practice as there is no legal requirement Aviva didnt fail in any of its 
obligations or breach any terms and conditions. Therefore, as the payments were rectified, 
recognition of this can only be through a monetary award which takes account of the effect 
this had on Mr M. Furthermore, even if giving six months notice was a legal requirement 
Mr M could only receive what he was due under his policy  there could be no justification in 
Aviva paying him his monthly withdrawal amount for six months unless he would have 
missed out on that due to an error Aviva made. But while the payments were made late to 
Mr M they were nevertheless made so Mr M hasnt lost out financially.
With regards to the representatives assertion that Aviva confirmed in 2017, Mr M would 
receive £300 forever, having listened to the telephone calls myself I can find no evidence 
this happened. What did take place was a discussion about changes in the variable amount 
and what that would mean for the regular payments. It was also confirmed in that call that 
the regular payments would remain in place until the money runs out. Its arguable that 
neither party on the call was very clear about what they were discussing so its possible this 
could have been misunderstood. However, its also reasonable that it would have been clear 
that money could only be withdrawn from the bond while it retained a value. If there was no 
value in the funds then obviously no payments could be made from it. And the value in the 
funds would be dependent on the investment part of the bond. I think this is something Mr M 
and his representative should have understood.
Overall, therefore, I do agree that Aviva should have kept Mr M better informed of the value 
of his bond and the potential impact that could have on his regular withdrawal payments. 
I think good practice would have been to write to him with good notice of this. But Aviva has 
agreed to this and offered an amount to Mr M which I feel is satisfactory in the given circumstances. Mr M hasnt been deprived of any monies due to him and in my view only the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him by Avivas actions should be awarded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
If Mr M wishes to accept the offer of £700 from Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited then he 
must contact it directly to arrange the payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman