DRN-3065953
The complaint
Miss D complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) unfairly declined a claim under 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is quite straightforward and known to both parties, so Ive 
only summarised events.
Miss D has insured her dog with Pinnacle since it joined her family in 2018.
She initially took out a maximum benefit policy and changed to a lifetime benefit in 
October 2020.
In April 2021 Miss D took her dog to the vets as it was leaking blood anally.
Pinnacle declined the claim, which it said was for a Gastro-intestinal problem, as it 
was a pre-existing condition. And it referred to clinical notes from July 2020.
Miss D didnt think this was fair as shed had her insurance arranged through the 
same Bank since 2018. And that gastro-intestinal could mean any number of things 
and it was unfair to exclude claims that may not be related.
Our investigator sympathised with Miss D but didnt feel Pinnacle had done anything 
wrong. 
He explained that changing policies had reset the pre-existing condition rule and 
any conditions occurring before the new policy was taken out would be considered 
pre-existing.
Our investigator noted that Miss D had mentioned the differences between the 2 
policies werent properly explained when they were sold to her. And advised Miss D 
that this would have to be a separate complaint and she would have to approach the 
organisation that sold the policies in the first instance.
Miss D asked that an ombudsman decide the case.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so Im 
not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken account of the policy terms and conditions. And I 
have to consider the terms and conditions of the policy Miss D claimed under, not 
any policies she previously held.
Section 4 of the policy sets out what the policy will, and will not, pay for vets fees. It 
states We will not pay for: any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that 
you were aware of or has been noted and/or investigated by a vet, before this policy 
started. Im satisfied this is clear.
The dogs clinical notes refer to vomiting and chronic gastritis, dietary indiscretion in 
February 2019. And there are notes from July 2020 referencing the dog had been on 
gastrointestinal biome food for a long time and that it was experiencing abdominal 
pain and occasional retching. So Im satisfied there were gastrointestinal conditions 
present before the current policy was taken out.
In the circumstances of this case I think Pinnacle has acted fairly and reasonably in 
line with its policy terms and conditions in declining this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman