DRN-3957858
The complaint
Mr T, on behalf of M, complains about Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of Londons 
(SoL) handling of an insurance claim he made following a burglary at Ms trading premises.
Where I refer to SoL within this decision, this should be taken to include agents and 
representatives acting on its behalf.
What happened
M held insurance with SoL which covered various aspects of its activities. Among the 
insured perils were theft of goods from the premises and business interruption.
Following a break in and theft of items in November 2021, M made a claim. As a result of the 
break in, Ms premises were closed and M stopped trading.
SoL made a payment to settle the stolen items in March 2022. In May 2022 it made an offer 
to settle the business interruption element of the claim to cover the period when M wasnt 
trading.
Mr T complained about the length of time the claim had taken to be settled. He also provided 
further documents in support of his view that the settlement for the business interruption 
element of the claim should have been higher.
SoL made a further settlement for the business interruption claim after reviewing the further 
information provided by Mr T. In response to his complaint, it acknowledged there had been 
delays during the claim and offered £350 as compensation to recognise this.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed there had been avoidable 
delays but thought the compensation offered by SoL was suitable. Mr T didnt agree. He 
says the delays had a very serious impact on him and M. Hes asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 26 January 2023. In that provisional 
decision, I outlined that I was minded to require SoL to pay a further £400 in compensation, 
making £750 in total. I said:
My starting point here is that SoL has already agreed there were avoidable delays during the 
claim. Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and effectively. That hasnt happened 
here. What I need to do is decide what these delays were, and then what impact they had. 
Once Ive done that, Ill need to consider how this should be put right.
Im aware SoL made an initial payment for the business interruption and then a subsequent, 
increased payment. From Mr Ts submissions to our service, it seems he agrees the original 
payment was based on information about Ms turnover and profits, with further information 
suggesting a higher amount should be paid being provided subsequently which resulted in 
the increased settlement.
I cant hold SoL responsible for the delay between the initial payment and the subsequent 
payment. I havent seen anything which suggests to me it could reasonably have made the 
increased settlement initially, or that it unreasonably delayed the further payment on receipt 
of the further information.
Before making any payment for the business interruption, SoL made a payment for stolen 
items. Ive seen nothing to suggest that M couldnt have resumed trading on receipt of that 
payment. Im satisfied that, in line with the relevant terms and conditions of the policy, the 
business interruption section of the policy would cover from the date of the break in to the 
date of settlement.
This means that financial losses arising from delays which occurred during the period 
between the break in and the settlement for stolen items have been taken into account when 
SoL made a payment for the business interruption  as the payment covered the period 
when the business was unable to trade, which would naturally include any delays in that 
period. The amount SoL has settled, and how that was calculated, isnt the subject of the 
complaint Im considering.
Its agreed there were avoidable delays during this period. SoL were notified of the claim in 
late November 2021, and appointed loss adjusters to carry out enquiries into the claim. The 
loss adjusters initially reported back in December 2021 and were asked to undertake further 
enquiries. No meaningful progress was made on the claim until February 2022. Its agreed 
that the further enquiries could, and should, have been carried out earlier. I note that from 
February 2022 through until the settlement of the stolen items in March 2022 there was a 
regular flow of information and requests between SoL and the loss adjusters. That should 
have been happening in December 2021 and January 2022. I think its fair to say that an 
avoidable delay of around 2 months has happened.
I think a further delay also needs to be acknowledged here. I can see from the initial loss 
adjusters report to SoL that the likelihood of a business interruption claim was recognised. 
However, documents from M to support that claim werent requested until March 2022, when 
the stolen items were settled. Im unaware of any reason why Mr T wasnt asked, or couldnt 
have been asked, for information to support that element of the claim.
On that basis, I think its fair to say the assessment (and therefore subsequent settlements) 
of the business interruption claim could have been carried out sooner. Im aware that cover 
for the claim hadnt been agreed until March 2022 (although this could have been done 
sooner if the enquiries had been carried out and completed promptly) but that doesnt mean 
that obtaining and reviewing information relating to the business interruption claim couldnt 
have been done. The effect of not requesting that information as part of the initial claim 
assessment is that a further two months elapsed, after the settlement for the items was 
made, before any payment for the business interruption element of the claim was made.
I think the effect of these delays was considerable. Mr Ts explained to us the impact the 
claim has had on his health. I know hes particularly unhappy that M was unable to trade 
over the Christmas period in 2021 as this would have been a particularly busy, and 
profitable, time of year.
I acknowledge that during that period there was a lack of clarity about what was happening 
with the claim, and while I agree that undertaking further enquiries was fair, the 
communication with Mr T about what was required, and the timescales for this, wasnt up to 
the required standard.
I dont think its reasonable to say the claim could have been resolved prior to Christmas so 
that M could resume trading. Further enquiries were requested by SoL after the initial loss adjusters report in December 2021. Those enquiries were reasonable and proportionate, 
and I can safely conclude that they wouldnt have been completed before Christmas 2021 to 
allow SoL to confirm cover and make a payment so that M could resume trading.
Its also important to note the difference between the distress and inconvenience which 
arises as an almost inevitable effect of making a claim (and, in this case, the break in and 
theft of items leading to M being unable to trade), for which SoL isnt liable and that caused 
by the avoidable delays and lack of communication, for which SoL is liable. I dont think it 
would be fair for me to conclude that all of the effects on Mr Ts health arise solely because 
of the avoidable delays to the claim. I dont have any medical or other evidence to support 
such a conclusion. Its very difficult for me to attribute all of the distress caused to Mr T to the 
avoidable delays, when I consider the wider impact of the break-in and the claim.
Having said this, I dont think the £350 offered to date as compensation properly recognises 
the impact on Mr T. A delay of around two months, with M not trading and a lack of 
communication and clarity would have had a significant impact on Mr T. I also think that 
progress on the business interruption claim could, and should have been made sooner, and 
its likely as a result that payment for that element of the claim would have been made 
earlier, reducing the impact.
On balance therefore, I think that £750 compensation in total more properly recognises the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I think SoL should pay an additional £400 compensation 
due to the effects of the avoidable delays to the claim.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr T, on behalf of M, didnt respond to my provisional decision.
SoL responded and said it disagreed with the £400 additional compensation Id said should 
be paid. It asked for further reasoning for this, considering that it had already paid £350 in 
recognition of the delays which it considered fair in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the comments from SoL, and the information available to me. I remain satisfied 
that SoL should pay an additional £400 in compensation. My reasons for this remain 
unchanged, but Ill add some additional detail in light of SoLs response to my provisional 
decision.
As I outlined in the provisional decision, I believe an additional delay occurred beyond the 
two months which has already been acknowledged. This was because no action was taken 
to request information relating to Ms claim for business interruption until March 2022, 
despite SoL being made aware that a claim for this was likely back in December 2021. By 
not requesting detail of the business interruption claim until March 2022, this delayed any 
settlement of that element of the claim. Given the intention of such a settlement is to cover 
losses suffered by the business due to being unable to trade, its fair to say that the impact of 
the delay Ive highlighted would be considerable on Mr T and M. M had no income during the 
period from the theft in November 2021 and March 2022. A delay to a payment intended to 
cover the losses to M from that period could lead to cashflow issues and debts accrued 
remaining unpaid for example. I havent been provided with any details of financial losses 
which are said to be attributable to this delay, so Im not asking SoL to cover those.It also needs to be considered that the delays to the claim have a direct impact on Mr Ts 
livelihood. Without settlement of the claim, a decision regarding cover, an idea on timescales 
or any communication about what was happening with the claim, it left Mr T in a position of 
uncertainty about Ms ability to trade. It also either limited or prevented any short term 
planning about how and when M could reopen. If there had been some certainty about the 
claim, then I think its fair to say Mr T could have made or changed plans around Ms future.
Given the impact of the delays, which have impacted two separate settlements to M, I dont 
believe the £350 which was offered by SoL properly compensated M. I remain of the view 
that a total of £750 more reasonably reflects the considerable distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr T and M because the claim wasnt handled promptly and effectively.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Society of Lloyds 
trading as Lloyds of London must pay an additional £400 compensation, making £750 in 
total.
This further compensation must be paid within 28 days of us telling Society of Lloyds trading 
as Lloyds of London that M accepts my decision. If it does not, it must pay simple interest at 
a rate of 8% per year on this amount from that date to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman