DRN-3498580
The complaint
Mrs B complains that QIC Europe Ltd acted unfairly when settling her claims for veterinary 
fees under her horse insurance policy.
References to QIC include its agents.
What happened
In late 2020, Mrs Bs horse (J) began to buck under saddle and became quite girthy. Mrs B 
says shortly after this, J became unsettled in his stable and was rolling excessively. So, in 
January 2021 Mrs B arranged for J to be seen by a vet.
The vet diagnosed J with Equine Gastric Ulcer Syndrome (EGUS), and he was given 
treatment for these. Mrs B says that within a short space of time J became more settled in 
his stable and the excessive rolling had ceased. However, the bucking continued and 
seemed to be getting worse. Mrs B discussed her concerns with the vet who carried out 
spinal radiographs and diagnosed J with multiple Overriding Dorsal Spinous Processes 
(ODSP). J was referred for surgery, which took place in March 2021.
QIC treated Mrs Bs claims for veterinary fees for the EGUS and ODSP as one incident. It 
settled the invoices from the vet and equine hospital up to the policys maximum incident 
limit of £5,000. This meant that Mrs B was left to pay over £2,000 towards the fees herself.
Mrs B complained to QIC. She didnt think it was fair to treat her claims as one incident. She 
said J had suffered from several clinical signs which were due to different clinical conditions 
that started at different times.
QIC maintained its position, so Mrs B asked our service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator looked into Mrs Bs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. 
She thought QIC had acted fairly and had settled Mrs Bs claims in line with the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. She disputed that Js conditions met QICs 
definition of one incident. She said there were two sets of clinical signs with separate start 
dates, separate causes and separate resolutions. She also commented that shed initially 
taken equine insurance out with a different insurer who were bought out. She felt that QIC 
should have done more to highlight the change in policy terms. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs horse insurance policy certificate with QIC states that the incident limit is £5,000.
The policys terms and conditions define incident as:
A claimable incident under this policy is not judged on each separately diagnosed condition 
but is considered to be an onset of symptoms. If a horse presents with a symptom or set of 
symptoms, any diagnoses which arise out of that investigation, or subsequent related 
investigations, are considered together to be one claimable incident under the policy.
Its not disputed that EGUS and ODSP are two separately diagnosed conditions or that J 
suffered from both. However, QIC have applied the policy limit to Mrs Bs claims because it 
considers them to be one incident. So, Ive needed to think about whether or not it was 
reasonable for QIC to have done so.
Mrs B strongly believes that her claims should be considered as two separate incidents. She 
says the bucking under saddle and girthiness occurred at the end of November 2020 and the 
rolling, unsettled behaviour and loss of condition were observed at the end of December 
2020. 
However, QIC has provided an independent vets report which says the treating vet stated 
that the gastroscopy was the first diagnostic step in investigating this horses presenting 
complaints and that when this only partially resolved the clinical signs, then radiography of 
the back was performed.
This is supported by the veterinary centres clinical notes for J and by the sections of the 
claim form completed by the vet.
On 7 January 2021, the veterinary centre has noted Mrs Bs concerns which includes J 
bucking. This is followed by: advised scoping for gastric ulcers as next step. 
On 15 January 2021 (when the gastroscope was carried out) the vet has noted that Js 
owner reports bucking behaviour, girthiness, stressful etc.  The treatment plan is noted 
followed by: If still not better after this plan then lameness assessment.
On the claim form with the diagnosis EGUS, the vet has noted the symptoms as unsettled, 
poor condition, bucking, (decrease in) appetite, lying down, rolling. 
So, it would appear that the bucking and girthiness were part of a set of symptoms being 
investigated by the vet. As not all of the symptoms were resolved by the treatment for the 
EGUS, further investigation was carried out resulting in the diagnosis of ODSP. 
The independent vets report concludes with: In my opinion, the conditions of Gastric 
ulceration (EGUS) and overriding dorsal spinous processes (ODSP) form part of one 
claimable incident.
Given the above, I think it was fair and reasonable for QIC to conclude that both conditions 
Mrs B claimed for arose from investigations into symptoms J began to display in late 2020. 
And, so I think it was fair for QIC to treat the claims as one claimable incident under the 
terms of her policy.
Ive considered all of Mrs Bs points, including what shes said about QIC not highlighting 
that its definition of incident differed from the policy shed taken out when shed purchased 
J. 
Mrs B says the company she originally took out insurance with was purchased by QICs 
agent in 2017. Prior to this shed made claims for conditions which were being treated at the 
same time and these were viewed as separate incidents. Mrs B says there was continuation of cover provided and she had no reason to anticipate any significant alteration to the terms 
and conditions. 
However, Mrs Bs previous policy appears to have been underwritten by a different insurer. 
QIC informed Mrs B of its terms and conditions every year at renewal and incident is within 
these. So, Mrs Bs comments about this havent made a difference to the outcome Ive 
reached. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mrs B, but I dont require QIC to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman