DRN-3732984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC did not update their correspondence 
address. This meant one of their statements was sent to their previous address. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M notified Lloyds of their change of address on 22 March 2022 in one of the 
banks branches. But Lloyds did not amend their correspondence address, so their April 
current account statement was sent to their previous address. They emailed Lloyds to find 
out what had happened on 14 May 2022. Lloyds accepted its error, updated the 
correspondence address, apologised and paid £100 compensation. It also gave feedback to 
the branch.
Mr and Mrs M want £1,000 compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. She said the £100 payment was 
in line with our guidelines as the error was a one-off incident that was put right quickly. There 
was no evidence the error had caused financial loss or created additional cost for Mr and 
Mrs M. And we do not consider what might have happened or possible future losses when 
we make awards.
Mr and Mrs M did not accept this assessment and asked for a further £900 compensation. 
So the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  ad why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds made a mistake. But it has acknowledged this, apologised and 
compensated Mr and Mrs M. It also gave feedback to the branch involved. I find this to be a 
fair and reasonable response.
Mr and Mrs M seek further compensation, but I have found no reason to make an additional 
award. I have considered the impact of the error and how Lloyds responded once it was 
made aware of its error. Mr and Mrs M have not submitted evidence of financial losses or 
costs incurred as a result of this error for me to consider. I note from the case file that Mr M 
repeatedly references that his wife could not get to work and so suffered loss of earnings. 
But as we have explained that is being considered as part of a different complaint he has 
raised; it is not related to this issue.
I can see Mr M has now confirmed that they have received the £100 payment.
It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to take any further action.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman