DRN-3087501
The complaint
 Mrs T is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to refund the money she lost after 
falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
 The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, to summarise, between May and September 2019 Mrs T 
made two debit card payments and five overseas bank transfers, totalling £74,088.16, after 
falling victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
 
HSBC didnt uphold Mrs Ts related complaint, so she asked us to look into the matter. I 
issued a provisional decision last month setting out what I thought HSBC had done wrong 
and what it needed to do to put things right. I said, in summary, that:
The first payment Mrs T disputed was for £216.20 (plus a £5.94 non-sterling transaction 
fee) which left her HSBC account via her debit card on 7 May 2019. Mrs T made a 
chargeback claim to HSBC which included this payment and, as a result, the bank 
refunded £210.60 to her account. It wasnt clear to me why HSBC didnt refund the full 
£216.20 (plus the £5.94 fee) or why it didnt follow up the chargeback with the merchant. 
I thought it wouldve been prudent to HSBC to do this, yet the window of time in which it 
couldve done so had passed. Despite having ample time to do so, HSBC hadnt 
provided much evidence relating to this payment but, in the circumstances, I accepted 
the possibility Mrs T didnt receive the goods or services she paid for and that the 
merchant would have been unable to successfully defend the chargeback. So I thought 
HSBC ought to be responsible for this part of Mrs Ts loss. However, it didnt appear that 
HSBC ever re-debited the £210.60 from Mrs Ts account. So I said HSBC ought to pay 
the difference between this amount and the amount Mrs T actually paid (including the 
non-sterling transaction fee). This totalled £11.54, to which I thought interest should be 
added, calculated at 8% simple per year from the date the partial chargeback refund was 
made, to the date of settlement.
Mrs T told the bank she didnt, personally, authorise the five bank transfers and they 
should be refunded on that basis. But I didnt agree. Mrs T said she allowed the 
scammer to log on remotely to her computer and made the payments on her behalf. 
From everything Id seen, I thought she was aware of each payment that was being 
made and willingly allowed the scammer to do so. I was satisfied, by doing so, she 
authorised each payment.
All five international bank transfers and the second debit card payment were made from 
Mrs Ts account at HSBC to accounts shed set up in her own name with three different, 
genuine, cryptocurrency providers/trading platforms. It was my understanding her money 
was then moved (either directly in euros or after being transferred into cryptocurrency) to 
another account held, or controlled, by the fraudster.
The bank blocked Mrs Ts attempt to make the first international transfer to a genuine 
cryptocurrency provider, but then released the money after a phone call with her. I 
thought the bank couldve asked more questions about the investment opportunity during 
that call. But Mrs T assured it she hadnt received any investment advice and rejected its 
concerns that some customers had been scammed by people claiming to be from bitcoin 
providers. Ultimately, Mrs Ts transfer was being made to a genuine cryptocurrency 
provider/trading platform and I didnt think it was the banks responsibility in that type of 
phone call to provide advice about the risks of entering into that type of investment. 
Perhaps more importantly, I was satisfied it wasnt the transfer of funds from Mrs Ts 
account at HSBC (or HSBCs alleged failure to intervene in those transfers) that caused 
Mrs Ts loss. She wouldnt have suffered a loss had it not been for the subsequent 
transfers from her cryptocurrency accounts held with the genuine cryptocurrency 
providers/trading platforms to the fraudsters accounts and that, I thought, was the actual 
cause of her loss. In the circumstances, I couldnt fairly hold HSBC responsible for 
Mrs Ts losses as they werent caused by the banks actions.
HSBC pursued a chargeback claim for the £8,052.66 disputed debt card transaction and 
refunded this money to Mrs Ts account while awaiting the merchants response. I saw 
nothing wrong with HSBCs processing of Mrs Ts claim up to that point. Nor did I think it 
was wrong of HSBC to re-debit the refund when it did. The declaration on the 
chargeback form Mrs T submitted explained that the credit would be reversed if the 
retailer contested the claim, the merchant did contest it  in line with the chargeback 
rules and on the basis that it had followed Mrs Ts instruction and no money or 
cryptocurrency remained in her account. And, when HSBC wrote to Mrs T to explain this, 
it also warned her it would re-debit the money from her account a week or so later. 
Mrs T said she was in financial difficulty at the point when the disputed debt card 
transaction was re-debited, largely due to her husbands business being closed then as a 
result of the covid-19 pandemic. But I was satisfied the bank was entitled to re-debit the 
money when it did and if Mrs T needed help with her financial situation, she could have 
contacted the bank about that separately. Mrs T could, potentially, pursue a separate 
complaint against HSBC if shes unhappy with the support, or lack thereof, HSBC offered 
specifically while she was experiencing financial difficulties.
Despite concluding that HSBC fairly re-debited Mrs Ts account. It took £8,143.42, which 
was £90.76 more than the £8,052.66 credit previously applied. It wasnt clear to me why 
this difference exists and I thought  unless the bank could explain this to my satisfaction 
 HSBC should refund the £90.76 along with interest, calculated at 8% simple per year 
from the date the overpayment was taken to the date of settlement. 
In light of my other conclusions I didnt think HSBC ought to pay the £150 compensation 
the investigator recommended.
HSBC didnt reply to my provisional decision, which is disappointing not least because I 
asked it to comment on very specific points.
Mrs T didnt accept my provisional findings and said, in summary, that:
She didnt set up the accounts with the cryptocurrency providers  the scammer did this.
It was wrong of me to say that the bank mentioned cryptocurrency scams during the call 
she had with the bank. No mention was made about the dangers of dealing in 
cryptocurrency and the particular cryptocurrency provider/trading platforms name wasnt 
mentioned at all.HSBC was aware of the particular scammer that she fell victim to and the transactions 
were unusual given the way she had used her account in the past. The bank ought to 
have done more to prevent her losses in line with the duty of care (the Quincecare 
duty) it owed her.
The events in questions happened before the covid-19 pandemic began, so it was wrong 
of me to say her financial difficulties related to that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional 
decision and summarised above. I would add the following, given Mrs Ts recent comments.
Mrs T says she didnt open the cryptocurrency accounts herself. But Ive seen emails she 
exchanged with the scammer which talk about her doing so and, at times, asking for its help 
in completing the process. Ive also seen emails sent direct to her from the cryptocurrency 
providers/trading platforms confirming her accounts are open after the verification process 
had been completed. Its seems clear Mrs T was involved in, and consented to, opening the 
various accounts whether or not she did this wholly herself or whether she allowed the 
scammer to take remote control of her computer, or provided the scammer with the 
necessary information, to do so on her behalf.
I have listened again to the call I mentioned in my provisional decision and am satisfied what 
I said was correct.
Ive noted Mrs Ts concerns about the number of consumers who are falling victim to this 
type of scam and the banks duties to her. I agree with Mrs T that the company the scammer 
was posing as was mentioned on the FCAs website in September 2018, before Mrs T lost 
her money. But Mrs T didnt make any payments direct to this company, nor did she mention 
them by name in the calls Ive listened to. Nor, as I said in my provisional decision do I think 
it was for HSBC to provide financial advice about the risks posed by cryptocurrency 
investments. 
I would also note that, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. But it must also balance this with its duty to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
In this case, as Ive said before, HSBC could have asked more questions about the transfers 
after blocking the first one, presumably because its fraud detection systems identified it was 
unusual given Mrs Ts historic account activity. However, the fact remains that it wasnt the 
transfer of funds from Mrs Ts account at HSBC (or HSBCs alleged failure to intervene in 
those transfers) that ultimately caused Mrs Ts loss. She wouldnt have suffered a loss had it 
not been for the subsequent transfers from her cryptocurrency accounts held with the 
genuine cryptocurrency providers/trading platforms to the fraudsters accounts and that, I still 
think, was the actual cause of her loss. 
I dont agree that I made a mistake when talking about the reason for Mrs Ts financial 
difficulties. I was referring not to the point when she lost her money to the scam, but to the 
point when the bank reversed the larger of the two chargeback refunds. And my comments 
were based on what shed told us in correspondence from April 2020  she initially noted HSBC had reversed the chargeback and put her in debt and, later that month, provided more 
detail about her precarious financial situation. This was at the height of the Covid-19 
pandemic.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for Mrs Ts losses as they 
werent caused by the banks actions.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mrs T:
£11.54 plus interest* calculated at 8% simple per year from the date the partial 
chargeback refund was made to Mrs Ts account, to the date of settlement.
£90.76 plus interest* calculated at 8% simple per year from the date the chargeback re-
debit was applied to Mrs Ts account, to the date settlement is made.
*If HSBC considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman