The complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited is holding him responsible for borrowing on a credit card 
which he says he never applied for.
What happened
Mr K says he didnt apply for a card with MBNA. He says he was the victim of impersonation 
and that this card and two with Bank of Scotland were taken out fraudulently while he was 
away.
MBNA said it didnt accept that this application was a fraudulent one by a third party. MBNA 
is part of a business grouping including Bank of Scotland. And it said that the three cards 
had been applied for on 25 July 2019. Large transactions were attempted on this card and 
initially blocked. Mr K had spoken to it about one for over £3,000 on 6 August 2019 to 
confirm it was genuine. A card with Bank of Scotland was blocked and Mr K had visited a 
branch on 7 August 2019 with his passport and driving licence. A decision had still been 
made to block all three cards. And Mr K had also called Bank of Scotland about all the cards 
on 7 August 2019 and hadnt then said he had been the victim of impersonation. MBNA said 
that it thought that the person it spoke to on 6 August 2019 was the genuine Mr K having 
compared his voice against a call about his complaint in November 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr K had said that the 
person who called Bank of Scotland on 7 August 2019 was the fraudster. But our 
investigator didnt agree that the voice was someone else. That person had also given 
correct information about accounts Mr K had with other banks during the call. Mr K had been 
given a recording of that call to consider. The three card applications all had the same 
information about Mr K and had passed the application checks. The cards and PINs were 
sent to the correct address for Mr K. Hed been identified in a branch on 7 August 2019 after 
one of his cards had been blocked for fraud checks. He considered that Mr K had applied for 
the cards and made the payments.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that the voice on the recording didnt match his and said what he 
thought the different accent of the caller was. He referred to a forensic audio expert being 
able to clarify it wasnt him. He wanted to see copies of his identification provided on 7 
August 2019 and CCTV. And he said that the only route open to him now seemed to be to 
contact a solicitor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1619964Im looking in this complaint about the credit card taken out with MBNA. And Ill separately 
be issuing a decision about the cards taken out with Bank of Scotland as thats a separate 
business area. But the evidence is clearly linked especially as all the cards were taken out 
on the same day and my reasoning in each complaint is going to be the same.
Mr K has referred to the services of a forensic audio expert. Thats not something wed 
arrange as part of our informal dispute resolution service. I think hes had the opportunity to 
do so if he wanted and Ive not seen any expert evidence from him. Like the investigator Ive 
listened to all the call recordings weve been provided with across both complaints. And I can 
see why MBNA has decided that its consistently been dealing with the genuine Mr K. As Ill 
explain thats not the only evidence suggesting he took out these cards.
It wont now be possible to get CCTV of Mr K visiting a branch in August 2019 given the time 
that has passed. And I wouldnt have expected branch staff to keep copies of his 
identification at that time. But as his card had been blocked on suspicion of fraud I think it 
most likely careful checks of his identification were made and the notes indicated he spoke 
on the phone from the branch to the fraud team and confirmed a recent attempted payment.
Its not impossible for someone to obtain information about Mr K to make an online 
application for all the cards. The applications were made in succession within less than 10 
minutes of each other. And all the information input was the same. The address given for  Mr 
K was the correct one and so the cards and PINs were dispatched to his address. When he 
referred his complaint to us hed mentioned that hed lived in the same house for a number 
of years. His passport and driving licence were in his possession. He went on to say that 
hed been sharing with a different family for a couple of months and been away when the 
cards were used. He also said he was suspicious of people outside his house at times 
waiting at a bus stop. Hes not provided any further information to support how he thinks the 
cards and PINs were intercepted. Three cards and three advice of PINs were all sent to  Mr 
K. The person attempting the payments had all of them as all three cards were used.  Mr K 
hasnt persuaded me that its most likely that all six separate items of post were intercepted.
In a call with MBNA on 6 August 2019 Mr K confirmed spending as genuine that hed been 
trying to make. He said hed used a different card for that payment and had left the store. But 
in fact after the call a successful attempt to make a payment to that store for the exact same 
amount was made. During the call with Bank of Scotland on 7 August 2019 the person I 
think was Mr K explained why hed taken out all the cards and what hed been spending the 
money on. Information about other accounts was given. That seemed a credible account to 
me and not likely what would otherwise be the very bold actions of a fraudster. And at no 
time did he say that he hadnt taken out any of the cards including the one at MBNA. I know 
that after the application the address for statements was changed. Mr K says he only came 
to know about the MBNA card when hed spoken to Bank of Scotland. And Ive listened to a 
call he made to complain to MBNA about this in November 2019.
Ive balanced all these factors carefully. I think that the most likely explanation here is that Mr 
K was aware of the application for this MBNA credit card account at the time and consented 
to the card being used for payments. I think in August 2019 he still wanted to continue to be 
able to use the card. But he only later complained he didnt know anything about it. I find that 
its reasonable for MBNA to hold Mr K responsible for this account and the related 
borrowing. So I wont be asking it to do anything further. Mr K remains free to pursue his 
complaint in court if he doesnt accept my decision subject to any relevant time limits as hes 
mentioned he might do.
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman