DRN-2406329
The complaint 
Mr M has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called a Silver account. 
TSB charged Mr M a monthly fee for the Silver account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. Mr M thinks that it should refund him all the fees he paid. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already considered Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend that 
TSB should give him any money back. Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ms complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr M and TSB have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
TSB and Mr M have both told us that it sold the Silver account to him during May 2013, but 
there is little further agreement between them. They have provided highly contradictory 
descriptions of what happened. There is no definitive evidence from the time to show me 
precisely what took place, so I have used the evidence that is available to work out what is 
most likely to have occurred.
 
Mr M and TSB have disagreed quite strongly about whether TSB sold him the Silver account 
through one of its branches or over the internet. Mr M had said that an adviser in his local 
branch sold the account to him during a meeting. He has said that he recalls the adviser 
recommending that he should buy the Silver account as it would be the best one for him. 
TSB has said it sold the Silver account to Mr M online.
I have seen some of TSBs internal records about Mr Ms account, and they show that a 
meeting did take place at one of its branches, but that during the meeting Mr M opened a 
fee-free account, not a Silver account. I have seen a copy of Mr Ms application form for this 
fee-free account, which he signed. He also seems to have registered for online banking at 
around same time. 
TSB has also told us that after January 2013, it would open fee-free accounts for customers 
through its branches, but only sold Silver accounts online. I am satisfied that this was its 
usual approach in May 2013, and I havent seen anything to make me think it changed its 
approach for Mr M. So, although I cant be sure what happened, I think the most likely 
sequence of events is that Mr M opened a fee-free account during the meeting, then 
registered for TSBs online service and then bought the Silver account online soon 
afterwards. I fully accept that TSB probably discussed the Silver account with Mr M during 
the meeting. In doing so, it may well have described the Silver account positively and 
triggered Mr Ms interest in it, but I think it sold the account to him online. 
With an online sale, its very unlikely that TSB would have given Mr M any personal advice 
or recommendation. But I would still have expected it to give him a choice and tell him about 
the Silver accounts benefits and fees clearly and fairly. 
As I have already found that by the time TSB sold Mr M the Silver account, he had 
previously opened a fee-free account, Im satisfied that it let him know he had this choice.
I cant tell for sure what screens or information Mr M saw when TSB sold him the Silver 
account online; but from what I have seen, I think that TSBs system probably did tell Mr M 
about the cost and the potential benefits of the Silver account. 
In May 2013, the benefits of the Silver account included use of a car breakdown service, 
travel insurance and insurance for mobile phones. I understand that Mr M drove a car, 
travelled abroad from time-to-time time and owned a mobile phone. So, I can see that the 
Silver account may well have been of interest to him and could have appeared attractive to 
him at the time. 
Some of the insurance policies that came with the account had limitations and exclusions to 
their use, but these dont seem to have adversely affected Mr M. He has also told us that he 
had alternatives in place for some of the benefits of the account. For example, hes said that 
he belonged to a motoring organisation which provided a breakdown service. I accept this, 
but in an online sale like this one, TSB did not have to check Mr Ms needs and 
circumstances. 
So, in summary, I think that TSB probably sold the Silver account to Mr M online, gave him a 
choice and told him about the accounts costs and benefits. I dont think it treated him 
unfairly.
While looking into this complaint, I have noticed that some of TSBs internal records mention 
that Mr M also complained that that while he held the Silver account he spoke to its 
telephone banking service to downgrade to a fee-free account but was told this wasnt 
possible. I dont know a great deal about this part of Mr Ms complaint, and TSB doesnt 
seem to have responded to it. As it seems to be separate from Mr Ms complaint about mis-
selling, I havent considered it in this decision. This means that Mr M is free to raise it further 
with TSB if he so wishes. However, I cant give him any advice about this or speculate on the 
possible outcome of any complaint. Nor can I tell if any case he may subsequently wish to 
bring to us about it will fall inside or outside the rules about the types of complaint we can 
consider and the time limits which apply to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint that TSB Bank 
plc mis-sold him a Silver account. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman