DRN-3406074
The complaint
Mr A complains about a second charge secured loan he had with Arrow Global Limited. Mr A 
believes the fees and charges applied to his account have been added unfairly and the 
interest rate applied to the loan is also unfair.
  
What happened
In June 2005, Mr A agreed to a second charge secured loan from a firm I will call F. He 
agreed to borrow £25,000 over the course of 300 repayments with a variable APR interest 
rate of 9.4%. The total charge for the credit, assuming nothing changed, shows on the credit 
agreement as £38,249. So, in total, Mr A could expect to pay around £63,249 if nothing 
changed.
The variable interest rate on the loan has changed several times since it began, until the last 
change on 1 January 2009 where it has remained at 11.86%.
During the course of this loan, the business responsible changed from a company Ill call F 
to Arrow Global in July 2016. Mr A has had two parties, F and Arrow Global, responsible for 
setting the interest rate as well as applying fees and charges.
The account fell into arrears shortly after the loan was agreed. Over the course of the 
agreement the arrears have varied between a single missed payment to multiple missed 
payments. Mr A has been in relatively consistent communication throughout about his 
financial difficulties.
In May 2021, Mr A received an inheritance and made an offer to Arrow Global in order to 
settle the agreement in full. Arrow Global accepted the £20,000 offer, agreeing to write-off 
the remaining debt and the account was settled in July 2021.  
Our Investigators view
When the Investigator considered the merits, they upheld Mr As complaint. They said the 
interest rate variation term was fair, but Arrow Global hadnt acted fairly in terms of setting 
the interest rates. The Investigator said that to put things right, Arrow Global should review 
the account from when they acquired the debt and apply any Bank of England base rate 
(BBR) changes. If the result of this calculation showed Mr A had paid more in overpayments 
and interest, this should be refunded along with 8% statutory interest.
The Investigator also upheld four of the charges applied to Mr As account out of the five 
considered.
Mr A accepted what the Investigator outlined in their view with no further comments. Arrow 
Global responded to say that since they acquired the loan, the base rates (LIBOR and BBR) 
have remained broadly flat. So, they didnt think the fact they hadnt varied Mr As interest 
rate since July 2016 had unfairly impacted him. However, Arrow Global said that a review 
theyd carried out in 2020 should have resulted in Mr As loan rate reducing by 0.65% in 
January 2021. They accepted this hadnt happened due to an administrative oversight and 
agreed to remediate this.
Arrow Global also said that they were not liable for any events that took place before they 
acquired the loan. Therefore, the charges that were applied prior to 2016 when they 
acquired the loan were not something theyd consider refunding because they werent liable 
for them.
The Investigator explained to Mr A that as Arrow Global were not liable for the charges we 
could not recommend they refund those charges. Mr A accepted this and understands that 
we can only consider the whether the interest rate variation term has been applied fairly by 
Arrow Global.
As Arrow Global has disagreed with the Investigators view, it has fallen to me to determine 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and issue a final decision on the 
matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time. Im also required to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case.
When considering Mr As complaint about the way the specific term has been applied and 
whether he has been treated fairly and reasonably, Ive thought carefully about whether the 
interest term was fair or not. If a term is fair, I then must consider whether it has been 
applied fairly.
The terms Mr A agreed to say that the interest rate on the loan will vary in line with Fs 
parent companys published base lending rate (which Ill call the G rate).
When I consider what is a fair term, I need to be satisfied that it is clearly outlined and 
understandable. Having considered the term in Mr As loan contract amongst the wider legal 
arguments and industry practice, I am satisfied that the term is fair. It is clear why the 
interest rate would change and how in practice it should change. Whilst F owned the loan, 
they varied the rate in-line with the G rate, as the term clearly set out it would do.
When Arrow Global took over responsibility for the loan from July 2016, they were also 
responsible for setting the interest rates. F have confirmed the G rate they used ceased to 
exist, and so, a new rate needed to be used moving forwards. We asked Arrow Global for 
more information around how they decided the new interest rate, and they confirmed that Mr 
As agreement continued to be serviced on the G rate without linking it to a new rate  hence 
why it stayed at 11.86% until their review in late 2020.
Since Arrow Global took over the loan, I am unaware of any further interest rate changes 
that have occurred to Mr As loan. The G rate was calculated on cost of funding which the 
regulator considers to be a fair approach to setting an internal variable rate. The G rate was 
also a published rate. So, I have to consider what would be fair when replacing it. Ive 
considered the industry practice applied to the portfolio of loans previously held by F that 
have been moved to various other businesses like Arrow Global. In general, the approach has been that the interest rate has moved to a new business rate which has closely followed 
changes to the BBR. This is approach seems fair and this is what Arrow Global should have 
done in Mr As case.
As Arrow Global didnt do that, didnt set a new base rate for Mr As loan to follow, I dont 
think they acted fairly. Theyve also not varied the rate at all nor explained to Mr A on what 
basis the variable interest rate term would work once they took over responsibility for setting 
the interest rates.
Ive noted what Arrow Global says about the way that base rates have remained broadly flat 
and that Mr A has not been treated unfairly by not changing the rate on his loan. From this I 
understand Arrow Global is suggesting Mr A has not lost out by his interest rate not 
changing, as any decreases in the rate would be offset against any increases. Whilst this 
may be the case I havent seen any specific calculations or evidence to demonstrate this is 
the case and therefore whether Mr A has or hasnt actually lost out. 
As I dont think Arrow Global has acted fairly I think it should take steps to put things right. 
Arrow Global should calculate what Mr A would have paid if theyd done what I think they 
should have done  linked the interest rate on his loan to the changes in the BBR rate. If this 
results in Mr A having paid more than he should have done, he should receive a refund of 
any overpayments. If it doesnt or tracking the BBR would have resulted in him paying more 
than he has, no action should be taken.
Putting things right
As outlined above, I am upholding Mr As complaint. I think Arrow Global has acted unfairly 
in how they applied the interest rate variation term after they acquired the debt from F in 
2016. To put things right, Arrow Global should:
Review from the date they took over the loan until the loan was settled, what Mr A 
would have paid if the BBR changes had been followed;
If Arrow Global calculate that Mr A has paid more interest than he would have if 
Arrow Global had followed the BBR changes, the balance should be recalculated, 
and the overpayments and interest should refunded to Mr A;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid;
If Arrow Global calculate that Mr A would have paid more had the interest followed 
the BBR, then no further action should be taken.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Arrow Global deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr A request it, Arrow Global should give him a certificate showing how much tax 
has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. Arrow Global Limited should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman