DRN-4411792
Complaint
Mr N has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr N with a loan for £2,600.00 in April 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £157.67. One of our investigators reviewed what         
Mr N and 118 118 Money had told us. And he thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint be 
upheld. Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr N could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ns application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr N could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr N has said that the monthly payments for the loan were unaffordable 
to him and so he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr N and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ns first loan with 118 118 Money. And         
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr Ns application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
118 118 Moneys searches appear to show that Mr N did have some previous difficulties with 
credit in the form of defaults. But the vast majority of this was historic. And Mr Ns active 
unsecured debt total at the time of the application was low in comparison to his income. 
However, even though Mr Ns active commitments were low and his defaults were historic, 
nonetheless I would have expected 118 118 Money to find out a bit more about Mr Ns 
actual living expenses before it decided to lend to him. After all, Mr N had previously proved 
unable to repay creditors and I think that this called into question the accuracy of the amount 
that 118 118 Money had arrived at for Mr Ns living expenses. 
That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ns actual living costs would 
have made a difference to 118 118 Moneys decision to lend in this instance. I say this 
because the information Mr N has provided about his finances at the time appears to show 
that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably 
make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Mr N says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information about his living costs shows. And I also accept that if 118 118 Money had gone 
into the depth of checks Mr N appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank 
statements from multiple accounts  its possible, but by no means certain, it may have 
reached a different decision as I have my suspicions as to why Mr N might have had 
previous difficulties with credit.
But given the circumstances here, and what 118 118 Money needed to find out, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank 
statements from Mr N  especially as bank statements werent the only way that 118 118 
Money could find out about Mr Ns living expenses in the first place. And finding out about  
Mr Ns living expenses wont have led 118 118 Money to determine the loan payments to be 
unaffordable.  
Furthermore, as this was a first loan 118 118 Money was providing to Mr N and there wasnt 
a history of Mr N obtaining funds and then returning for more, Im satisfied that 118 118 
Money was reasonably entitled to believe that this loan was affordable Mr N. As this is the 
case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr N. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr N unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr N. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman