DRN-3245123
The complaint
Mr S complained that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr S with loans as follows:
Date loan 
takenLoan 
amountTypical loan 
repaymentTerm Total amount 
repayableLoan status
18/04/2019 £1,000 £106.41 12 months £1,276.96 Repaid by 
loan 2
04/09/2019 £1,571.26 £123.89 18 months £2,230.06
When Mr S complained to Bamboo it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered to reduce the outstanding loan balance on loan 2 by an amount 
equal to one months interest, in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Mr S didnt feel this went far enough and so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint and she set out the steps Bamboo needed to 
take to put things right. 
Mr S would like to settle the complaint in the way our investigator recommended. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view.
In brief summary, it said that the information Mr S declared about his income and 
expenditure was supported by its own background checks and it saw nothing on his credit 
report to suggest it needed to do more checks. He had never defaulted on any line of credit, 
had any county court judgements or missed any repayments. Bamboo said it had no reason 
not to believe what Mr S said and his credit report showed that he was managing his money 
well.
Bamboo said it didnt consider it wouldve been proportionate to ask Mr S to provide bank 
statements, especially as he had no adverse information showing and there was no sign that 
his financial situation had deteriorated between the loans. 
Bamboo asked for an ombudsman to review the case so the complaint comes to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Like our investigator, 
and for broadly similar reasons, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided the loans. 
Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr S complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally 
to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the 
fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr S case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr S loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If so, did Bamboo then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Bamboo asked Mr S some questions about his income and did its own checks, which 
included obtaining information about his credit history. Bamboo also relied on statistical 
information about how much someone in Mr S position typically spent each month on living 
costs.For loan 1, Bamboo recorded a figure of £1,440 for Mr S take home pay. Using national 
average figures to reflect his living costs (approximately £369) and allowing for 
accommodation costs (£398) and Mr S spending around £154 on his other credit 
commitments, Bamboo worked out that Mr S should still have around £518 spare cash left in 
order to make the monthly repayments for this loan. So the loan looked comfortably 
affordable for him.
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability of this 
loan before it agreed to lend to Mr S. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision 
when it lent to Mr S based on the information it had gathered because I dont think its checks 
were proportionate.
I say this because Mr S had very recently taken out a £1,500 loan with another provider of 
high cost credit and it wasnt clear why he would have needed to borrow a further £1,000 in 
such a short space of time. Potentially at least, I think this apparent need for expensive 
credit was a sign of possible money problems. 
Of course, there could have been a number of reasons why Mr S mightve urgently needed 
to obtain cash quickly  for instance, to help with a large unforeseen cost or a one-off 
expense. But I cant see that Bamboo enquired about the loan purpose or that it took any 
steps to find out why Mr S was now starting to borrow significantly when his circumstances 
and financial situation up until then appeared to have been relatively stable for at least the 
last 12 months or so. 
As well as this, I think Bamboo shouldve realised that it most likely didnt have a proper 
understanding of Mr Ss financial situation because the way he had recently started to use 
credit looked to be at odds with the amount of disposable income that Bamboo thought he 
should have. Bamboos affordability calculations suggested he could have saved up this loan 
amount within a couple of months which shouldve raised a question about why he needed 
to borrow it and whether this expensive loan was in Mr S interests. 
So I think Bamboo needed to do more to understand why Mr S was now actively taking out 
credit when this wasnt something he appeared to have done previously  in particular, 
whether it was a sign that he was facing problems managing his money. 
For someone earning the amount that Mr S declared, I also think the term and the cost of the 
loan were relatively high. I think reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve involved 
Bamboo obtaining a thorough knowledge of Mr S financial circumstances, including 
evidence. Thats because, to my mind, the monthly cost presented a high risk of becoming 
unaffordable or unsustainable over the term of the loan. 
Keeping in mind that Bamboos checks needed to be borrower focused, I think it needed to 
do more to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr S overall financial situation to be satisfied 
he could afford the loan, particularly bearing in mind that Bamboo had relied on third party 
data to establish Mr S income and expenditure but seen no direct evidence. 
And it hadnt particularly enquired or checked, as far as I can see, if he had any costs over 
and above what would be typical for someone in his financial situation.
All this leads me to think, on balance, that Bamboo should have carried out a complete 
review of Mr Ss finances and done more to verify what he had told it to ensure a more 
thorough understanding of his financial circumstances. So, Ive looked at what I think 
proportionate checks would likely have shown.I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr S which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding his overall financial situation at the time  and I am aware that these have 
also been seen now by Bamboo. I've taken into account that Bamboo considers that it 
wasnt proportionate to have requested to see these bank statements, based on information 
presented at the time.
But, for the reasons I have set out more fully above, I think Bamboo did need to carry out 
more in-depth checks. And if it had done what I consider would have been a proportionate 
check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan was going to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr S. 
I can see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
Bamboo had calculated, in reality Mr S was often struggling to his keep his bank account in 
credit - despite being regularly in receipt also of substantial payments into his account from a 
third party, to whom he made some repayments from time to time. His income during the 
months running up to him taking this loan fell significantly short of the figure Bamboo had 
relied on in its affordability assessment. And had Bamboo used Mr S actual income as 
shown on his bank statements when assessing affordability (an amount which worked out on 
average over this period at around half the amount Bamboo thought he earned) it wouldve 
realised that the monthly surplus it had calculated was more than wiped out by the shortfall 
in actual income. 
Bamboo would also have seen that Mr S income was supplemented from time to time by 
benefit payments. Whilst it has said this wouldnt be a reason not to lend to a borrower, 
I think its fair to say that Mr S received benefit that was means tested and designed to help 
him meet essential living costs. It wasnt a sufficient amount to boost his income up to the 
level Bamboo had assumed he had and it cant fairly or reasonably be considered as surplus 
income available to repay new debt.
To sum up, I think a proportionate check would have shown that loan 1 wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Mr S and so Bamboo shouldve realised it was unfair to lend to him and it 
shouldnt have provided loan 1.
The fact that Mr S was able to make the monthly repayments on time doesnt mean that he 
was able to do so in a way that was sustainable  so this doesnt affect my overall view.
Mr S applied for extra borrowing and used this in part to repay loan 1 early. Given that I think 
loan 1 was irresponsibly provided, it follows that I think loan 2, which increased Mr S overall 
debt and extended the period of his indebtedness, shouldnt have been provided either. And 
had more in-depth checks been done, as I think ought to have happened bearing in mind the 
information Bamboo was aware of at the time, it would have seen that his actual financial 
situation showed that the loan was unaffordable on any sustainable basis. I think thats 
borne out by the fact that Mr S by then had evident money problems which included a £715 
county court judgement debt dated very shortly after Bamboo agreed this loan.
So I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to make me think that Bamboos loan helped Mr S 
to improve his financial situation. And I dont think Bamboo should have agreed to give either 
of these loans to Mr S.
As Mr S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result 
of what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S some other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress over and 
above what I've set out below.
I appreciate that Bamboo takes a different view and Im grateful to Bamboo for its detailed 
responses to this complaint. I believe Bamboo will be aware already that where information 
is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my decision based on what 
I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the information thats available. This 
means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. Ive 
noted that Bamboo said that our investigator was making assumptions that some transfers 
seen on Mr S bank statements showed he was borrowing and repaying lending from a third 
party. I think that is a reasonable conclusion in the circumstances. But its not the main 
reason Im upholding this complaint so I dont think I need comment further and what 
Bamboo has said about this doesnt affect the outcome.  
If I havent commented on everything else thats been mentioned, thats because Ive 
concentrated on dealing with the things that are directly relevant to the reasons why Im 
upholding this complaint and theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said already.
 
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo 
to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
In its submissions to us, Bamboo has talked about the 2020 High Court judgement in the 
case of Kerrigan vs Elevate Credit International Limited. Bamboo drew on the Courts 
findings to support its view that the lending decisions it made were fair and reasonable and it 
has questioned assumptions about what might have happened had it declined the lending in 
question, and so Mr S wouldve had to apply to a third-party lender. 
In deciding what Bamboo should fairly do to put things right in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not lent to Mr S, as Im satisfied it ought not to have done. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending, Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Bamboos liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
he borrowed when he took out the loans. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him  which isnt fair or reasonable.When this complaint was first brought to us there was still a balance owing on loan 2. If 
Bamboo has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, Bamboo should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the 
loans. The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr S.
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman