DRN-1986826
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed registering a default on a loan she 
held.
What happened
In 2011 Mrs M took out a loan with Barclays. Unfortunately, Mrs M started to struggle 
financially and in 2013 she entered into a debt management plan (DMP). The debt 
management company sent letters to Barclays to let it know about the DMP and that the 
repayments for the loan would be reduced. A default was applied to the loan account.
However, Mrs M recently checked her credit file when applying for a mortgage and found 
that the default was still showing. She contacted Barclays as she said this should have been 
removed in 2019 (six years after she entered into the DMP) and asked for it to be removed. 
However, Barclays refused so Mrs M made a complaint.
Barclays said it didnt receive any letters from the debt management company and that the 
loan repayments were being made in full until late 2014  so it had no reason to register any 
adverse information on her credit file. It says it was only in 2015 that it became aware Mrs M 
was in a debt plan which is when it applied the default to her account. So, it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.
Mrs M disagreed. She said she had been paying a lower amount for the loan to the debt 
management company since 2013 and provided information to show this was the case. So, 
she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt agree that Barclays had to do anything 
more. She discovered that the debt management company had sent the letters to an old 
address and so this is why they werent received by Barclays. And even though Mrs M was 
only paying the lower amount to the debt management company, it was transferring these 
funds into a Barclays account where excess funds were available to make the repayments in 
full until 2014. So, she found that Barclays had no reason to apply a default to the account 
any earlier. Our investigator also discovered that Barclays only became aware of the DMP 
when it received an emailed copy of the letters from the debt management company in 2015 
- at this point it sent the default notice and applied the default soon after.
Mrs M remained unhappy with this outcome and requested an ombudsmans decision, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a default is applied to someones credit history, it can have quite significant financial 
implications, including restricting the ability to take out any additional credit for the time it 
remains live. So, I can appreciate Mrs Ms concerns in relation to when the default was 
recorded against her  especially as she has told us she was looking to apply for a 
mortgage. What I need to consider is whether Barclays should have applied this default in 
2013.
Mrs M has provided us with copies of several letters which were issued by her debt 
management company to Barclays. These confirm that she was entering into a DMP and 
that she would be paying a reduced sum for the loan. However, Barclays has told us it never 
received these letters. It has said that these letters were sent to an old address which is why 
they were not received. This seems like a reasonable explanation and Im satisfied that this 
is why Barclays didnt receive the letters in 2013 and 2014. 
A default is usually only applied to an account when there has been missed payments, 
meaning the account is in arrears. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) refers to 
this occurring usually after three months of arrears as a general guide, and normally by the 
time you are six months in arrears. 
When Mrs M first entered into the DMP, she believed she was now paying a reduced 
amount for her loan. She has shown us documentation that supports the lower sum was 
being paid by her to the debt management company in order for them to facilitate the 
payment with Barclays. However, this company was placing the funds into an account she 
still held with Barclays, which contained a small balance. The direct debit for her full loan 
payment was being taken from this account, using the balance left in the account to make up 
the difference. It appears that, even though Mrs M may have thought she was only paying a 
reduced sum, she was actually still paying the full loan repayment up until 2014 when the 
remaining balance in this account had been depleted.
 
As Barclays didnt receive any of the letters, it would have had no reason to know that Mrs M 
was in any financial difficultly until her account started to go into arrears towards the end of 
2014. And as per the ICO guidelines, any default would usually only be applied once the 
arrears had continued for a number of months. Barclays did receive an email from the debt 
management company in early 2015 to advise of the DMP and at this point it issued the 
default notice. So, Im not persuaded that it could have considered applying the default 
before this time.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Barclays wouldnt have been able to apply 
the default any earlier than it did  so it doesnt need to change the date this has been 
applied or remove the default any earlier.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but for the reasons Ive stated above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman