DRN-3890370
The complaint
Mr H complained about poor service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC after there 
were two disputed transactions on his Barclaycard credit card. 
What happened
Mr H made a balance transfer to Barclaycard, which he paid off in around 2018, leaving a nil 
balance. 
On 20 October 2021, Barclays sent Mr H a statement which showed a £7.99 debit to an 
online retailer on 15 October. Mr H hadnt authorised this, so he rang Barclays. He said he 
rang about three times, until in November Barclays told him to fill in a form, which he did on 
11 November. Mr H had an acknowledgement saying the transaction would be suspended 
so it wasnt wouldnt be included in the billing calculations, and the claim would be 
investigated. 
On 18 November, Barclays sent Mr H a statement which showed a further £7.99 debit to the 
online retailer on 15 November. So the balance on the account was £15.98. 
Mr H rang Barclays again on 4 December. The adviser told him that she could see Mr H had 
spoken to Barclays in November, but the card hadnt been blocked. She said shed block the 
account, and asked whether Mr H wanted a replacement card. Mr H said no, hed like the 
account closed. So the adviser said shed block the card, but not send a replacement, and 
would close the account once the disputed transaction had been sorted out. 
Mr H asked her if there would be any impact on his credit file, and the adviser said 
absolutely not, and if it was nothing to do with Mr H, there would be no detriment to him. She 
said that if anything had been reported Barclays would get it corrected, as Mr H couldnt be 
expected to pay if it wasnt his spending. The advisor blocked any further transactions, 
logged the two transactions as fraud, and said Mr H would be sent a text by the fraud team 
once they were credited. 
In line with what the 4 December adviser had said, Mr Hs 20 December statement shows a 
credit for £15.98 leaving a zero balance.  And there had had been no further recurring 
payment on 15 December.  
But Mr H then found out that Barclays had put a marker onto his credit file. On 15 February 
2022 he rang Barclays and complained. Barclays adviser said that because it was Barclays 
fault he would credit Mr Hs account with £25, and he would close the complaint. Mr H said 
that he needed a more comprehensive final response and £25 compensation wasnt nearly 
enough as hed had to make many calls, over a very long time. He didnt think Barclays had 
yet looked at his complaint in full, especially now that he knew his credit file had been 
affected, and that hadnt been resolved. The adviser said hed re-open the complaint.
Mr H rang again on 22 February, because he hadnt been satisfied with the call a week 
earlier and didnt trust the previous adviser to have re-opened the complaint. As he thought, 
the complaint hadnt been re-opened. Mr H made several more phone calls in the following 
weeks, but was told the complaint had been resolved as not upheld. 
Barclays sent a final response letter to Mr H. This said that while it appreciated that Mr H 
was unhappy with the length of time the fraud team had taken, it needed to investigate fraud 
claims fully, so it could sometimes take some time to provide a resolution. Barclays said it 
recognised the Mr H was unhappy with £25 compensation, but this was an appropriate 
amount. The letter said I have arranged to have any late payment markers removed from 
your credit file. This process can take up to eight weeks to be reflected on any credit report.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He set out a helpful chronology of the 
events and his phone calls to Barclays. He said that hed been very stressed about his credit 
score and whether his identity had been stolen again. He said it had come at a difficult time 
personally. Mr H said there had been missed call-backs, not following requests, bad service 
and not dealing with the original problem for months, until it had impacted his credit score. 
Hed spent over 10 hours on the phone and online, as well as countless hours worrying.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said that unfortunately, Mr H had been a 
victim of fraud. Although there had been a delay in Barclays refunding the transactions, it 
had removed the credit file markers, and refunding interest and charges, so there had been 
no financial loss or impact on Mr H. So the investigator thought the £25 compensation which 
B had paid was fair and reasonable to compensate for the delay.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he didnt think the outcome was fair or correct, and he asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations governing disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in late 2021 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Here, it 
wasnt disputed that Mr H didnt authorise the two disputed transactions. So he wasnt liable 
for them, which in turn means he shouldnt have had any information recorded about them 
on his credit file.
Mr H told us that he rang several times before he was given the disputed transaction form to 
complete. Its not clear why he wasnt given the form to complete until 11 November. And 
after he completed the form, it appeared that his account still wasnt blocked, which led to 
the next disputed transaction happening on 15 November. By the time of Mr Hs 4 December 
call, his account still wasnt blocked.
Having listened to the call recordings, the advisor on 4 December was pleasant and came 
across as efficient. She did block Mr Hs account, logged the two disputed transactions as 
fraud, sorted out whether he wanted a new card or not, and told Mr H that the fraud team 
would be in touch once the two disputed transactions had been credited. And I considered she did what shed promised, because Mr Hs 20 December statement showed theyd been 
credited.
Importantly, Mr H also asked the advisor about his credit file, because it was important to 
him, and as Ive set out above, she reassured him that if anything had been reported 
Barclays would get it corrected. But the fraud team or relevant internal team cant have done 
that, because a late payment marker was put on Mr Hs credit file.
It wasnt until Mr H found out about the late payment marker and complained on 15 February 
that the credit file marker was actually addressed. On 21 February, the Final Response letter 
said that the writer had arranged for this to be sorted out, and it might take up to eight 
weeks. But if the fraud team had actioned the credit marker issue shortly after the 4 
December call, Mr H wouldnt have had to wait up to eight weeks from 21 February.  It would 
have been resolved by around the end of January instead of by late April. Better still, it might 
not ever have appeared on his credit file at all. Either way, it seemed that had Barclays acted 
correctly here and as it said it would then Mr H could have been spared having to follow this 
up when he did in February. He also wouldnt have had to then deal with the information 
remaining on his credit file for as long as it did.
When considering compensation, we take into account financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience. There wasnt any financial loss through Mr H not having had his credit file 
corrected for around two to three months longer than it should have taken. But he had 
specifically asked about his credit file on multiple occasions, and had explained why it was 
important to him. So I considered that finding out that a marker had been placed on his credit 
file when hed been told it would be sorted out, and having to make more calls to get it 
resolved, and wait longer, did have an impact on Mr H. Fraud is always upsetting, and the 
fact that a fraud happened wasnt Barclays fault. But I considered that the way Barclays 
handled the problem increased the upset and inconvenience for Mr H
I went on to consider the customer service which Mr H received. Based on what both sides 
have said, and the call recordings, I found that Mr H didnt overall receive good service from 
Barclays. I accepted that he made calls in autumn 2021 which werent actioned quickly, and 
he had to ring multiple times. When hed completed the required form on 11 November, 
nothing was actioned and he had to ring again. As the second disputed transaction 
happened on 15 November, it might have been too late to prevent the second transaction by 
11 November, but it might not have been too late to prevent it if his earlier calls had been 
actioned. Overall, I considered that Mr H had to chase more times than was ideal.
Some advisers were helpful, as Ive set out above. But some werent. For example the 15 
February call handler wasnt clear, was very rushed, and clearly keen to get the complaint 
closed by offering £25. Mr H was calm but explained that the credit file problem was still 
outstanding. The adviser said hed re-opened the complaint, but this was clearly reluctant 
and it appeared that he didnt in fact do so.
Taking into account the fact that the credit file marker wasnt removed when Mr H reported 
the problem in autumn 2021, and the overall poor service he received, I didnt consider the 
£25 which Barclays offered was sufficient. I noted that Mr H had asked for £600, but this too 
wouldnt be in line with the compensation we recommend for this type of incident. I 
considered that a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor service would be £150 in total. I explained that this 
included the £25 offered by Barclays. At the time of the provisional decision, it wasnt clear to 
me whether or not the £25 had been paid to Mr H. Barclays final response said it had been 
provided but in Mr Hs complaint form to this service hed asked for it to be sent to his 
external bank account. So I asked both sides for confirmation about whether or not this £25 
had been paid to Mr H.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H accepted the provisional decision. He said that as he hadnt accepted Barclays offer of 
£25, hed never cashed the cheque Barclays had sent him.
Barclays also accepted the provisional decision. It confirmed that Mr H hadnt cashed the 
cheque, so it said it would cancel the cheque and would be happy to send Mr H the full £150 
to his bank account if he provided the details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and in the light of the 
responses to the provisional decision, I consider that my original provisional decision was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H a 
total of £150 for distress and inconvenience for poor service in relation to the disputed 
transactions on his Barclaycard, in particular around the credit file markers.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman