DRN-1896423
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont allow him to amend the 
standing order that is set up from his First Direct current account to pay his First Direct 
mortgage. He wants to increase the standing order so he can overpay the mortgage.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked or 
answered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell First Direct how to run its 
business. The standing order in question is an internal transfer between two 
accounts with the business. If First Direct chooses not to allow its mortgage 
customers to amend the payment instruction when both accounts are held with it 
then I cant interfere with that commercial decision.
If Mr R feels First Direct has breached any regulations then thats something he can 
report to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA doesnt deal 
with individual disputes so it wont look into Mr Rs specific complaint, but it can take 
things forward as part of a wider review if it shares Mr Rs concerns.
First Direct gave Mr R a very quick and simple alternative, which was that a separate 
standing order could be set up for whatever overpayment Mr R wishes to make and 
that standing order would be controlled by Mr R. That standing order would achieve 
what Mr R wants and shouldnt take much of his time to set up.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman
