DRN-1362000
The complaint
Mr C complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited sent him a replacement phone that 
was damaged.   
What happened
In August last year, Mr C lost his phone. One of the benefits of his packaged bank account 
was mobile phone insurance, so he contacted Assurant to make a claim. Assurant accepted 
the claim, and sent Mr C a refurbished phone by courier. It was packed in an air cushioned 
pouch inside a cardboard box. Mr C's parents signed for the phone on 1 September 2019. 
Mr C was staying abroad at the time, so he didn't receive the phone until some time later 
when his parents visited him.  He's said that he opened the box on 8 September 2019, and 
noticed straight away that the phone inside was cracked. He's said this was the first time the 
phone was removed from its protective packaging, which didn't appear to be damaged.  
Mr C was preparing to move to a new job in a different country at the time, and was in the 
middle of renovating his property with a view to renting it out. Around the time his parents 
visited, he also had to deal with a leak in his bathroom. He's said that he wasn't able to notify 
Assurant of the damage to the phone until the afternoon of 11 September 2019. 
Assurant said it didn't accept responsibility for the damage to the phone, given the time that 
had elapsed since it was delivered. It said Mr C would need to submit a new claim if he 
wanted it to be repaired under the terms of his policy.  
Mr C raised a complaint to Assurant. He felt it most likely that Assurant had sent him a 
damaged phone, given the packaging arrived intact, or that it been damaged by the courier. 
He offered to send the phone back, but Assurant maintained he'd need to pay another 
excess if he wanted it repaired or replaced. Mr C reluctantly agreed to log a new claim in 
October 2019. He's said he had to buy a temporary phone in the interim.  
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr C's complaint. He accepted it was possible that Assurant 
had either sent Mr C a damaged phone, or that it had been damaged in transit. But he didn't 
think he could say this was the more likely version of events. He emphasised that the phone 
was carried in Mr C's parents' hand luggage on an international flight after it was signed for, 
and that Mr C didn't report the damage until three days after the phone arrived with him. 
Mr C disagreed. He argued that an impact strong enough to have damaged the phone in an 
air cushioned pouch would also have damaged the packaging. And he highlighted that his 
competing priorities at the time explained why he didn't report the damage earlier. 
He remained of the view that Assurant should treat this as one claim, and refund one of his 
excesses. He also asked us to consider whether it should pay him compensation for his 
inconvenience, refund his premiums and reimburse the cost of his temporary phone. I need 
to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr C and Assurant have differing views about when the phone was damaged. I need to 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, which version of events is more likely. I can only ask 
Assurant to refund the second excess Mr C paid if I think it's more likely that the phone was 
damaged whilst in its care, or in the care of its agent (the courier). 
Assurant has given us an overview of the process it follows when sending someone a 
refurbished phone. Its warehouse operatives carry out a sixty point check on the phone, 
which involves checking for cosmetic damage and making sure the display is functioning. 
The phone is then placed in an air-cushioned pouch, inside a sturdy box, and delivered by a 
professional courier. 
This process isn't infallible and there will be instances where a phone is damaged either 
while its being handled in the warehouse or while it's in transit. This will ordinarily be 
reported to Assurant when the phone is delivered though. And this makes it easier to 
establish, on the balance of probabilities, that the damage occurred while the phone was still 
in Assurant's (or its courier's) care. 
In this case, the phone had been out of Assurant's care for some ten days before any 
damage was reported. Naturally, this significantly increases the possibility that something 
outside of Assurant's control happened to the phone after it was delivered.
Mr C accepts that, during that time, the phone was carried through airport security and on an 
international flight. I think it's reasonable to conclude that, even in protective packaging, the 
phone could have suffered an impact during the journey that was significant enough to 
cause damage. I appreciate Mr C has said he'd expect there to have been damage to the 
packaging too in that scenario. But it appears that by the time he reported the damage to 
Assurant, and it asked him for evidence the packaging was intact, he'd disposed of it. 
It also appears that even after the phone arrived with Mr C, despite his comments that he 
noticed the crack straight away, he removed it from its packaging and put it into use. In fact, 
there are a number of calls recorded on Mr C's phone bill between 8 September 2019 and 
11 September 2019. 
Mr C says he thinks those calls were made on a spare phone, but I think it's more likely they 
were made from the replacement phone. Mr C told Assurant he'd made calls from the 
replacement phone when he reported the damage. And this would be consistent with the call 
activity starting around the time his parents arrived where he was staying. This suggests the 
replacement phone was in use for three days before any damage was reported to Assurant. 
I acknowledge Mr C's reasoning for the delay in reporting the damage, but I think this does 
create further doubt about when the damage occurred. 
Whilst it's possible the phone was damaged in Assurant's care, I'm not satisfied, on balance, 
that this is the more probable version of events. In the circumstances, I think it was fair for 
Assurant to log a second claim. So, I'm not asking it to refund Mr C's excess. There were no 
particular delays in Assurant's handling of the second claim. Rather, Mr C chose to delay 
returning the phone while he disputed the outcome. He'd also mentioned to Assurant that 
he'd been able to use the replacement phone to make calls despite the crack. So, it follows 
that I don't think Assurant needs to compensate Mr C for his inconvenience, or reimburse 
the cost of the temporary phone he used during that period. 
Furthermore, I don't think Assurant needs to make any refund of premiums to Mr C. He has 
made two successful claims on the policy this year, and has therefore benefited from the cover it provides. In any event, the policy is just one benefit Mr C receives in return for the 
monthly fee he pays towards his packaged bank account. If Mr C considers any of those 
benefits aren't good value for money, he'd need to take that up with his bank. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Mr C's complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020. 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman