DRN-4423125
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Around May 2022, Mrs M was contacted by scammers. They claimed to be from the National 
Crime Agency (the NCA) and said they were working with another bank (N) who she held an 
account with. She says they knew lots of her details. They said her phone had been hacked 
and bank employees were trying to steal her funds.
Mrs M says the scammers, posing as the NCA, asked her to download remote access 
software, as well as an app for X, a cryptocurrency wallet, and transfer money from her 
bank accounts to X. This included payments from her Santander account. The payments 
were made over a period of just under two weeks.
When Mrs M received an email stating a loan had been applied for, she realised she had 
been scammed. She reported this to Santander, but it didnt agree to refund her  citing that 
it had spoken to her at the time and she had given false reasons for the payments (on the 
instruction of the scammer).
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs M referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things  but didnt think Santander was liable for the loss. In broad 
summary, he concluded the payments didnt fall under the scope of the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. And in light of the reasons she gave 
for the payments at the time, he didnt think Santander was at fault for not realising she was 
being scammed at the time.
Mrs M appealed the investigators view. Ive summarised the main points she has pushed 
back on:
She didnt have control of the X account;
She wasnt aware of some of the transactions made, including transfers into her 
current account from her savings account (both held with Santander) which were 
used to fund some of the transactions; and
She doesnt understand why Santander wont refund her when N  from whose 
account she also made payments to the scam  has.
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Ms complaint earlier in October 2023, explaining I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
First, Ive considered Mrs M allegation that she was unaware of some of the 
payments. She says they were made by the scammers  who had control of her 
phone  without her consent.
In broad terms, under the relevant regulations  the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (PSRs)  Mrs M would generally be liable for the disputed payments if she 
authorised them. And Santander would be liable if she didnt.
The PSRs specify that authorisation depends on whether the payment transactions 
were authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them.
Ive received audit information from Santander which satisfies me the payments were 
properly authenticated; the correct payment steps were followed. In line with how the 
PSRs define consent, they would therefore be treated as authorised if Mrs M 
completed the agreed steps, in line with the account terms, to make them. Or if 
someone else was acting on her behalf (an agent) and used those steps.
Agency can be created not only by the bounds of the actual authority granted by the 
principle. But also by the acts of the agent which appear to have been made with the 
principles authority.
In this case, what Mrs M told me persuades me, on balance, that she had granted 
agency to the scammers. This is not the same as informed consent  I know she was 
tricked. But she told me none of the payments were initiated by her. Yet she was 
aware of at least some of them - as Santander flagged a number of payments to 
discuss with her.
When Santander spoke to Mrs M about those payments, she confirmed she was 
making them. So, if she wasnt initiating the payments, it seems she knew the 
scammers (posing as the NCA/her other bank) were doing that. Which means she 
must have known they had access to her account. Yet she still told Santander she 
was happy to make the payments. And Ive seen no suggestion she took steps to 
revoke the scammers access. Which means the scammers agency to act for her 
continued.
It also appears that touch ID was being used to access Mrs Ms mobile banking to 
make these payments. And Santanders records suggest she told it she authorised 
the payments when first reporting the scam. While I cant know for certain what 
happened, I must decide whats more likely. In line with the points Ive set out above, 
Im persuaded its likely the payments were made in such a way that they would be 
deemed authorised under the PSRs.
As above, I do appreciate Mrs M was being tricked by the scammers about what they 
were actually doing. But as the payments would be deemed authorised, the starting 
position is that Santander isnt liable. Ive gone on to consider whether there are any 
other reasons that Santander should refund her, in line with the duty it holds to help 
protect customers from financial harm from fraud and scams.
Even when a payment is authorised, there are some situations where we believe that 
bankstaking into account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have 
identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding 
the transaction before making the payment.
In this case, Santander did identify some of the payments to X as suspicious. It 
spoke to Mrs M about what she was doing, and asked relevant questions to assess 
the fraud risk. Based on the responses she gave, I consider it reasonable that 
Santander was reassured and therefore made the payments as instructed, in line 
with its regulatory duty to process authorised payment instructions without undue 
delay.In an intervention call Ive listened to, Mrs M told Santander she was paying X for 
cryptocurrency investing, as recommended by a friend. She confirmed she had used 
the X account before, had no issues accessing or withdrawing funds from it, and no 
one else had access to it. She also confirmed, in response to Santanders 
questioning:
She hadn't been contacted by someone claiming to be the bank (or the police 
or another reputable institute);
She hadn't been told to lie about the payments, or that someone at her bank 
was under investigation;
She hadn't been told the money would be sent back to her Santander 
account; and 
She hadnt downloaded any apps at someone else's request or given anyone 
remote access to her device.
What Mrs M has subsequently disclosed about the scam makes it clear these 
answers didnt accurately reflect what she understood to be happening. Having 
listened to the call and considered the overall tone in addition to the answers given, I 
consider it reasonable that Santander relied on the responses Mrs M gave. Its line of 
questioning flagged up several features relevant to the scam she fell victim to, yet 
she didnt raise anything of concern. In the circumstances, I'm not persuaded it's at 
fault for not realising she was falling victim to a scam at the time.
While not all the payments were flagged, I wouldnt reasonably expect them to have 
been. Taking into account what Santander had already been told about the prior 
payments to X, I dont think all the subsequent payments reasonably looked 
suspicious or uncharacteristic. Nor do I have confidence, bearing in mind what Mrs M 
told Santander when it did speak to her about some of the payments, that further 
questioning on other payments would have prevented her loss.
Ive considered whether there any other reasons why Santander should fairly be held 
liable for Mrs Ms loss. But Ive not found that there are.
As Santander is a signatory to the Lending Standards Board's Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code  which sets out how banks should deal with 
certain types of authorised scams  Ive considered whether Mrs M is entitled to a 
refund under this code. But Ive found it doesnt apply here, as it doesnt cover me-to-
me payments. Which is how these payments would be characterised. While we know 
the funds were transferred on from X to the scammers (Mrs M has checked and X 
have confirmed no funds remain in her account), the direct payment from Santander 
went to an X account in Mrs Ms name.
However, Mrs M says she didnt have control of the X account. So I have considered
whether its accurate to deem the disputed transactions a me-to-me payments.
Ive found that, when Mrs M first reported the scam to Santander, she said she had 
been convinced to download Xs app. And she has consistently confirmed she was 
aware of the X account. Im also persuaded that, at least initially, she had access to it 
 as she has previously said she was able to log in and see the transactions coming 
in and out. Furthermore, X has subsequently been able to speak to her about the 
account, given that it was registered to her.While I understand the scammers also had access to the X account, these would still 
be deemed me-to-me payments. It seems likely, based on what Mrs M has told us, 
that the scammers changed the password to her X account once the scam had been 
uncovered. But Im persuaded the account was set up in Mrs Ms name with her 
knowledge and involvement, and that she had access to it at first.
Id also add that the CRM code only covers payments between UK-based accounts
denominated in pounds sterling (GBP). We know the payments to X were transferred 
on to the scammer. Its unlikely that was a transfer between GBP accounts; it was 
probably a transfer between cryptocurrency wallets. And so that is a further reason 
why the CRM code doesnt apply here.
While I appreciate Mrs M has been refunded by another bank in relation to this scam, 
that wasnt something our service determined it should do; its something N offered to 
do. As Santander didnt do that, its our role independently decide how the complaint 
should be resolved. We look at each case on its individual merits.
Overall, I therefore havent found Santander made errors which caused, or 
contributed to, Mrs Ms fraudulent loss. While I appreciate she was tricked by a cruel 
scam, I therefore dont consider it fair to direct Santander to refund her for this.
I invited both parties to submit further comments and evidence. Santander hasnt responded 
by the deadline I set. Mrs M has responded to say:
As N has refunded her the full amount, why cant Santander do the same;
She has also read of similar cases where Santander has refunded the money;
She was under threat from the scammers and acted in fear. She was the victim and 
never meant to mislead the banks  who should have asked better interrogative 
questions. She says the calls make it obvious that it was done in an intensive and 
stressed manner; and
We should investigate the funds transferred from her savings account to her current 
account, as that wasnt done with her approval. Her online banking access was 
blocked most of the time so she couldnt see the transactions happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including carefully considering Mrs Ms response, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint. This is largely for the reasons given in my provisional decision, which are set 
out above and form part of my final decision. So here, I will focus on responding to the points 
Mrs M raised following my provisional decision.
As my provisional decision explained, we look at each case on its own individual merits. Ns 
decision to refund Mrs M, and Santanders decision to refund others, doesnt have a bearing 
on my judgment of whether, in these circumstances, Santander should refund Mrs M.
Mrs M has clearly been a victim of a scam. I do have empathy for her situation, as I know 
she has lost out. However, that in itself doesnt give me fair grounds to hold Santander liable 
for her loss; banks are not always obliged to refund scam victims. Ive set out the 
considerations for whether Santander should refund Mrs M in my provisional decision. For 
the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded it should. Ive considered Mrs Ms point about how she came across during the intervention calls. As 
my provisional decision acknowledges, I did take into account her tone as well as her words. 
Overall, I think Santander asked reasonable questions to assess the fraud risk. And I dont 
think it had cause to be concerned based on what she said or how she said it. 
Id reassure Mrs M I have considered her point about whether she made the transfers from 
her savings account to her current account, which were used to fund the onward payments 
to X. My provisional decision starts by addressing whether the payments were all authorised. 
To be clear, that included the transfers between her accounts.
As I explained, even if Mrs M didnt initiate all the payments, they would still be deemed 
authorised if made by some acting as her agent  even if the agents actions went beyond 
what Mrs M was anticipating.
The savings payments started prior to Santanders discussions with Mrs M about some of 
the payments to X, which she confirmed she agreed to. So if, as Mrs M has said, she didnt 
initiate any of the payments, she would have been aware the scammers had access to her 
account and could make payments. As she didnt take steps to remove their access, I think 
that agency relationship held throughout the scam. 
Furthermore, Santanders records suggest touch ID was being used to access Mrs Ms 
mobile banking. On balance, I think Mrs M likely either completed the payment steps herself, 
or was aware the scammers had access to complete these steps  regardless of whether 
she was aware of each transactions individually. Either way, in line with the PSRs, the 
payments would be deemed authorised.
For these reasons, I there dont consider it fair to hold Santander liable for Mrs Ms loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman