DRN-3558114
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited delayed in processing a deed of 
postponement in respect of their loan. This meant there was a delay in completing a re-
mortgage application and they had to pay more interest on their mortgage because their 
fixed rate had ended, and the mortgage moved to their lenders higher standard variable 
rate. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties and are not in dispute. All Im 
required to do here is decide whether the level of compensation offered by Shawbrook is fair 
in all the circumstances. So instead of repeating the details here, I will focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached. Ill explain why.
Shawbrook says it doesnt have a set timeframe for processing a deed of postponement and 
the time it can take varies on a case by case basis. I dont think this is unreasonable 
because it would need to consider the individual circumstances involved with each 
application. But generally, Shawbrook indicated to Mr W and Mrs W that the average time 
frame was approximately four to five weeks. 
Shawbrook was contacted about the deed of postponement on 9 December 2021 and it then 
requested further information from Mr W and Mrs W on 10 December 2021. Once this was 
provided by them on 15 December 2021, I can see from the internal notes the process to 
prepare the deed of postponement was actioned on 16 December 2021. So I cant say there 
was any unreasonable delay by Shawbrook in starting the process. 
The deed of postponement was sent to Mr W and Mrs Ws re-mortgage solicitors on 19 
January 2022. So in total the process took about 20 working days in total once Shawbrook 
had all the information it needed. During this time Shawbrook had to ensure that the 
documents were passed to its solicitors for consideration and approval before the deed of 
postponement could be signed. Shawbrook was entitled to ensure in agreeing the deed of 
postponement it was not being disadvantaged and so I think it was within its rights to follow 
this due diligence procedure. Overall the provision of the deed of postponement appears to 
have moved ahead in a reasonable time thereafter.
I know Mr W and Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision and I appreciate Mr W and 
Mrs W were keen to get the re-mortgage completed because their existing mortgage had 
moved on to the lenders standard variable rate. I also note that Mr W and Mrs W made 
Shawbrook aware of this in various calls and emails. 
But as mentioned Shawbrook needed to ensure it had all the relevant information it needed 
and follow its appropriate process to complete the deed of postponement correctly. It was 
only contacted about this on 9 December 2021 and this was close to the festive period. This 
included bank holidays, weekends, and a period where its very likely for staff to be on 
annual leave. So, taking this into account I dont find 20 working days to be so unreasonable.
I note Shawbrook have accepted it provided some poor service in that there was a slight 
delay in signing the deed of postponement due to the unavailability of a power of attorney 
and it could also have provided clearer information in a call with Mr W and Mrs W on 20 
January 2022. Shawbrook offered Mr W and Mrs W £95 in compensation for this. 
Considering the circumstances of this complaint I think this is fair and in line with this 
services approach in similar cases. 
So given I think Shawbrook only caused a slight delay in the processing of the deed of 
postponement and, thereby Mr W and Mrs Ws re-mortgage, I think the compensation of £95 
in total thats been offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as the offer already made by 
Shawbrook Bank Limited was appropriate in the circumstances.
Shawbrook Bank Limited should pay Mr W and Mrs W £95 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman