DRN-4302448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Smart Currency Exchange Limited (SC) failed to advise them 
appropriately about a currency exchange.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F say they had previously used SC for a foreign property purchase in 2018. 
They decided to use the company again for the sale of that same property. They also say 
after initial discussions with SC, they had a conversation with it in September 2022 about 
locking in an agreed exchange rate. Mr and Mrs F say SC told them the exchange rate was 
at a high but were not told what would happen if the sale fell through, which is what did take 
place. They say they lost about £6,400 as a result of exchange rate differences when SC 
sold back the currency. Mr and Mrs F say the product was mis-sold and would like the 
money refunded. They say they didnt lock in the money in 2018 and so unaware of what 
that would mean.
SC says the account was opened in 2018 and Mr and Mrs F were given the account terms 
and conditions. They say a contract was agreed and later cancelled by Mr and Mrs F and so 
there was a currency loss which it says they are liable for. SC says it didnt provide advice 
and its terms and conditions are also available online.
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it. The investigator 
thought SC should have done more to ensure Mr and Mrs F understood the risks and that 
the previous agreement did not involve fixing an exchange rate. The investigator 
recommended the money be refunded, interest added, and £400 compensation paid.
I asked both sides for further information. Mr and Mrs F confirmed they knew there was a 
contract between them and SC but say there is no mention about what would happen if their 
sale fell through.
SC says the decision to proceed was made by Mr and Mrs F and doesnt accept the 
investigators view.
My provisional view
I issued a provisional view, and I came to the provisional view that Mr and Mrs F agreed to 
lock in  the currency rate having been told it had reached the highest level in well over 500 
days. I thought provisionally they made that decision without advice from SC and agreed to a 
contract between the parties which meant there were consequences when it was cancelled. I 
looked carefully at the original account terms and conditions which I thought Mr and Mrs F 
agreed to when they first used SC. I was satisfied those terms and conditions made clear 
that SC doesnt provide advice and that a customer is responsible for any losses occurred. I 
said that whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Fs position, I couldnt fairly hold SC 
responsible for what took place.
I listened very carefully to all of the telephone calls between the parties leading up to the key 
call in September 2022. I said it was clear that Mr and Mrs F wanted to sell their property 
and initially were content to procced with the exchange rate on the date of sale.
In September 2022 the exchange rate was favourable to Mr and Mrs F, and I was satisfied 
SC told them that as well as the amount of extra money they would be receiving. During the 
call Mrs F was told the rate may not be as favourable on the actual sale date some days 
later. I said I was satisfied that during the call Mrs F told SC Lets lock in to which SC then 
told her she was entering into a legally binding contract. There was no discussion from either 
party about what would happen if the sale fell through.
So, I was satisfied it was Mr and Mrs Fs decision to fix the exchange rate on the sale date 
and that they entered into a contract with SC to do so. I was also satisfied that SC didnt 
provide advice on that decision but simply told them the exchange rate may not be as 
favourable (on the sale date) which I thought was common sense. As I was satisfied that SC 
was not providing advice to Mr and Mrs F then I didnt think it should have done more to 
ensure they were aware of the implications if the property sale fell through.  And I thought it 
ought to have been reasonably clear that if SC was locking in the currency and the money 
was not needed that there would be a cost involved in selling back the currency.
I appreciated Mr and Mrs F didnt anticipate the property sale would fall through but I thought 
that was the cause of the problems here and not the currency agreement. I said I cant fairly 
hold SC responsible what took place. And thought it likely that even if Mr and Mrs F realised 
there was a potential cost if the property sale fell through that they may well have still agreed 
to fix the rate due to its favourable position. I didnt think Mrs F told SC about any concerns 
she had that the sale would fall through and that she anticipated it would procced. 
Overall, my provisional view was that Mr and Mrs F entered into an agreement to fix a 
currency exchange rate. When that agreement didnt procced through no fault of SC, I 
thought it was entitled to pass the exchange rate difference onto Mr and Mrs F when it sold 
back the currency in line with agreed terms and conditions. I appreciated Mr and Mrs F will 
be disappointed by my provisional decision, but I said I have made clear that the ultimate 
decision to procced with locking in the rate was made by them on a non-advised basis.
Mr and Mrs F do not agree with my provisional view and have sent a detailed response. In 
summary they say that terms and conditions ought to have been given to them but were not. 
They say SCs website says it does provide advice and says it recommended as well as 
advised the rate be locked in. Mr and Mrs F say they were coerced into locking the money 
and would not have done so if appropriate advice was given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I have listened again to the telephone calls between the parties and am satisfied that Mrs F 
told SC that everything was going through. I am also satisfied that whilst SC says it may 
give advice about certain issues, that it did not do so during the call and that it was Mrs F 
that instructed it to lock in the rate. I have made clear that Im satisfied there was a clear 
contract agreed to by Mrs F. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F maintain they didnt receive a copy of 
the account terms and conditions, but SC says they were agreed to when the account was 
first opened. In those circumstances I have to consider what I think is more likely to have 
taken place. Having done so think on balance the terms and conditions would have been 
agreed to and available when the account was first opened. I also think for the reasons I have explained that during the telephone call it was Mrs F that instructed SC to lock in the 
rate and agreed to a contract. And that she ought to have been reasonably aware that if the 
contract was broken then there would inevitably be a cost in selling the currency, that was 
agreed to be bought, back.
I have made clear that I think the problem here was caused not by SC but by the buyer 
pulling out of the purchase which at no stage did Mr and Mrs F ever raise with SC as a 
possibility. It follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs F were coerced into the agreement and 
made the decision themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman