DRN-3084633
The complaint
Mr B complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc made errors and misinformed him when he asked 
to defer repayments to his two personal loans due to the financial impact of the global 
pandemic. This resulted in adverse information reported on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B has two personal loans with HSBC. The monthly repayment to Loan 1 was £153.61 
and to Loan 2 was £449.90.
Mr B realised his financial situation would be impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. 
So, he contacted HSBC in March 2020 and asked if he could freeze the repayments on both 
loans for a period of time until his financial situation became clearer. HSBC agreed to Mr Bs 
request for a period of three months when they said they would contact him.
In early May 2020, Mr B received an arrears notice from HSBC relating to Loan 2. It said 
payments had been missed on 2 April and 2 May 2020. This had also been recorded on Mr 
Bs credit file with the credit reference agencies. So, Mr B contacted HSBC to complain. He 
thought this was a mistake.
HSBC agreed hed be misinformed. So, they helped Mr B apply for a COVID payment 
deferral. They also agreed to remove any adverse information reported on his credit file. 
HSBC then wrote to Mr B and said a payment deferral was agreed for Loan 1 for the period 
23 April to 23 June 2020. But they also sent another letter telling Mr B that his application for 
a payment deferral on Loan 2 had been declined. They said this was because this loans 
repayments were already in arrears.
Later in May, Mr B received an arrears notice from HSBC relating to Loan 1. It said 
payments had been missed on 23 April and 23 May 2020. This had also been recorded on 
Mr Bs credit file with the credit reference agencies. So, Mr B contacted HSBC at the 
beginning of June 2020 to complain about this. He believed HSBC had made another 
mistake. Particularly given his discussions with them previously.
HSBC agreed theyd made a mistake and said they would arrange for any adverse 
information to be removed from his credit file. Mr B asked HSBC to confirm the repayment 
direct debits were live to ensure future payments werent missed. HSBC confirmed they 
remained suspended until 25 June 2020. So, a separate bank payment was set up to meet 
repayments ahead of that date.
HSBC also offered to submit a further payment deferral application for Mr B. But he declined 
given the problems hed experienced. 
Mr B was unhappy with how HSBC had dealt with his requests and the information theyd 
given him previously. He also saw that the adverse information was still recorded on his 
credit file. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs complaint. During her investigation, HSBC 
acknowledged to this service there were errors in their handling of Mr Bs loans with them. 
They agreed to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file. They also 
offered £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr B. Our 
adjudicator agreed HSBC had made mistakes. She also thought the resolution offered by 
HSBC was fair in these circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicator. While he acknowledged that the adverse information 
had since been removed from his file. He said his credit rating had still been impacted by 
HSBCs mistakes. He didnt think the compensation offered was enough. So, his complaint 
was referred to me in order to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Mr Bs first approach to HSBC predated the FCAs guidance. So, the agreement with HSBC 
didnt fall under the deferral scheme included within the FCAs guidance. But HSBC did tell 
Mr B that his credit file wouldnt be impacted by the payment freeze that was agreed. HSBC 
have confirmed that. So, I agree that Mr B was misinformed, and HSBC need to recognise 
that in their resolution.
Mr Bs complaint in May 2020 was driven by receipt of an arrears letter in respect of one of 
his loans. This service accepts that it may be difficult for a business to stop their systems 
from issuing arrears letters where a payment deferral has been agreed. So, while I 
appreciate that this will have been a worry to Mr B, I would expect HSBC to have made it 
clear that any arrears letters received do not need acting upon where a deferral has already 
been agreed.
HSBC did apologise and agreed to remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. I 
think that was the right response here. But it appears that didnt happen. So, this still needed 
to be corrected. 
HSBC also assisted Mr B in applying for COVID payment deferrals under the scheme 
recommended by the FCA. They agreed this for one loan, but not the other. The FCAs 
guidance is clear that COVID payment deferrals shouldnt be permitted where financial 
difficulties pre-existed. HSBC decided Loan 2 wouldnt qualify for a deferral because an 
arrears notice was issued on it before the FCA issued the guidance. 
HSBCs arrears notice pre-dated the FCAs guidance. While this was a matter of days 
before, it was clear that Mr Bs request was as a direct result of the global pandemics impact 
on his income. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr B had any previous financial problems.
When Mr B received a further letter telling him his loan payments were in arrears, this 
prompted a second complaint for what was, in essence, the same problem. Again, HSBC 
apologised and agreed to remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. But again, 
it doesnt appear this happened immediately.
Having acknowledged their mistakes, HSBC have confirmed to this service the adverse 
information would be removed from Mr Bs credit file. And Mr B has confirmed that this has 
now been done. HSBC also offered compensation of £200. 
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mr B did experience some inconvenience and distress as a result of HSBCs mistakes. I think the amount offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I 
appreciate that Mr B doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in 
order to penalise HSBC for their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact 
HSBCs mistake had upon Mr B. And I think their offer does that.
Mr B told this service that his credit score has got worse as a result. He feels this will impact 
future applications for finance. When considering compensation, I can only look at what did 
happen. I cant consider what might happen in the future. Lenders may consider Mr Bs 
credit history, as recorded, but I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBCs mistakes 
have or will financially impact Mr B.
Mr B also pointed out errors in letters since sent by HSBC confirming reinstatement of his 
loan repayment direct debits. While I agree the content appears misleading, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that this has had a negative financial impact on Mr B since. 
So, while I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, I shant be asking HSBC to do anything 
more than theyve already offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
ensure that any adverse information recorded in relation to Mr Bs loans is removed 
from his credit file.
pay compensation of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman