DRN-3779106
The complaint
Mr G complains that some advice given to him in 1990 by Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (SLAC) about making pension contributions was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr G met with an advisor employed by Laurentian Life. That firm now forms part of SLAC, so 
it is SLAC that needs to deal with Mr Gs complaint. For ease, in this decision, I will generally 
refer to the responsible business as SLAC throughout.
Mr G has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, again for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been 
with, and from, Mr G himself.
In 1990 Mr G was aged 22 and in full time employment. SLAC advised Mr G to start a 
personal retirement plan and he agreed to make monthly contributions of £40. He also 
accepted SLACs recommendation to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS) at the same time. Mr Gs monthly contributions were later increased, but 
he ceased contributing to the plan when he joined his occupational pension scheme in 
April 1993.
SLAC didnt at first agree with Mr Gs complaint. But he later provided evidence to show that 
the occupational pension scheme he joined in 1993 was available to him at the time the 
advice was given. So when Mr Gs complaint was assessed by one of our investigators, the 
investigator concluded that SLACs advice had been inappropriate. He said there was no 
evidence that SLAC had advised Mr G that he should investigate joining the occupational 
pension scheme instead of taking its personal retirement plan. He asked SLAC to put things 
right for Mr G and to pay him £250 for the inconvenience hed been caused.
SLAC accepted that its advice had been inappropriate and agreed to calculate whether Mr G 
had lost out. But it didnt think it was reasonable to pay further compensation to Mr G for any 
inconvenience hed suffered. Mr G agreed to that part of the redress recommendation being 
dropped.
SLAC calculated that it needed to pay Mr G the sum of £112,006.48 in order to compensate 
him for the losses hed experienced as a result of its inappropriate advice. It said that it 
thought the compensation could be paid as an augmentation to Mr Gs pension savings. 
Mr G disagreed. He said that HMRC considered payments such as this to be relievable. 
And so that meant the payment could only be up to the limits for contributions set by the 
relevant regulations. He said that his allowable earnings over the past three years did not 
provide sufficient coverage for a payment of that size.
So, as this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr G accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by SLAC. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr G has provided evidence that he was entitled to join his occupational pension scheme at 
the time SLAC advised him to take out its personal retirement plan. And the evidence from 
the time doesnt provide any suggestion that SLAC advised Mr G to explore the option of 
joining the occupational scheme. That is a failing, and it seems to me that, if nothing had 
gone wrong, it is likely that Mr G would have joined the occupational scheme in 1990, rather 
than three years later.
It appears that SLAC accepts that wrongdoing. And, in line with our investigators 
assessment it has agreed to pay compensation to Mr G in order to put things right. But it has 
been unable to agree the form of that compensation with Mr G. So in this decision I dont 
need to consider whether something has gone wrong  instead I will give directions on what 
I think it would be reasonable for SLAC to do in order to put things right.
The disagreement that arises between Mr G and SLAC relates to whether it is possible 
under the current regulations for the compensation to be added to his pension plan. SLAC 
says that its understanding is that the compensation would be treated as an augmentation 
and so not be affected by contribution limits. Mr G says that isnt the case, and the 
compensation would benefit from tax relief, and so be required to remain within the annual 
limits. He has provided details to SLAC of his limited income that suggests the amount of 
compensation SLAC has agreed to pay would breach those contribution limits.
It isnt appropriate for me to provide technical guidance either to Mr G or SLAC about how 
the relevant taxation rules should be interpreted. Instead, as will be seen in the following 
section of this final decision, my directions will follow those set out by the investigator. That 
places the responsibility on SLAC to ensure that the compensation it pays, and the form in 
which it is paid, doesnt conflict with any existing protection or allowances.
So in resolving this complaint, it is SLAC that is required to adhere to my directions. Should 
Mr G find that those directions havent been met (such as compensation being paid in a way 
that conflicts with allowance limits) he would be able to challenge SLACs actions either via a 
new complaint to this Service, or through Court proceedings. I do not intend to make 
directions at this time about hypothetical interpretations of complex regulations. It would be 
for Mr G to show, after the compensation has been paid, that he has been adversely 
affected by the redress method chosen by SLAC, and to then ask the firm to put things right.I appreciate that Mr G would prefer to receive a cash sum as compensation. But that isnt an 
option that I would think appropriate here, unless SLAC concluded that it couldnt pay the 
redress into his pension plan. I have noted that Mr G has now reached 55 years of age, so 
allowing his access to his pension funds. But using that access to draw the compensation 
will have implications, both on the amount of income tax he needs to pay, and in creating 
changes to his Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA). If at all possible, it is right that 
those changes are imposed should he take the compensation as income from his pension, 
rather than it being received as a lump sum.
Putting things right
SLAC has accepted that the advice it gave to Mr G in March 1990 was unsuitable. My 
conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for SLAC to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have joined 
the occupational scheme in 1990. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. But, if the complaint hasnt been settled in full 
and final settlement by the time any new guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect SLAC 
to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
SLAC should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.  
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual calculation. SLAC may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of not joining the occupational scheme on Mr Gs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Gs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman