DRN-3932606
The complaint
Mr S  on behalf of D, complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) allowed fraudulent 
payments to be taken from Ds account. He is also unhappy about the customer service that 
has been provided. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr S says a fraudulent payment was made from Ds business account. Mr 
S contacted Starling to alert it and to arrange a refund and replacement of the card used in 
the disputed transaction. Starling refunded the amount and told Mr S it had cancelled the 
compromised bank card. However, 9 days later, another disputed transaction occurred on 
the account despite the card being supposedly cancelled. 
Mr S complained to Starling. He said he couldnt understand how a further fraudulent 
transaction could have occurred when the card had been cancelled. He felt Starling was 
being dishonest with him about how it could have happened. He also said he was unhappy 
with the customer service that had been provided when he was trying to report the issues 
and during the investigation.  
Starling explained that the card had been blocked when advised but the second disputed 
transaction had been an offline transaction, which resulted in the payment going through 
despite the card being blocked. It did agree that the customer service provided should have 
been better though and offered D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused as well as refunding both disputed transactions in full. 
Mr S didnt feel that this enough to compensate for the issues D had had. He said he felt 
£500 was more appropriate so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint. He agreed that the customer service provided had been poor but felt 
that the £100 already offered was fair. He also explained that we dont award small 
businesses compensation for distress. 
Mr S remains unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I understand how strongly Mr S feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service. 
I can see that D has received a refund for both of the disputed transactions and from what I 
can see this was done in a reasonable time frame. I think this was the right thing to do in the 
circumstances.
I understand that Mr S was also unhappy with the customer service that had been provided. 
Amongst other issues, he complained that he had been told he had failed security despite 
knowing he had answered the questions correctly. I can imagine that this was extremely 
upsetting in an already stressful situation. I was pleased to see that Starling acknowledged 
that the customer service could have been better, apologised and awarded £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Having reviewed all of the issues that Mr S has 
mentioned, I think this amount is fair. 
Mr S has also stated that he believes Starling have been dishonest about how the second 
disputed transaction occurred if it had blocked the card as it said it had. He thought it had 
failed to cancel the card and as a result the second fraudulent transaction occurred. Starling 
explained that this transaction had occurred despite the card being blocked, as the payment 
had been made as an offline transaction. It said:
Offline transactions are transactions that don't get processed immediately by the merchant 
and don't display in your app at the time of the actual transaction. The most common reason 
for this would be because there is no immediate connection to the transaction network. As 
the merchant processed this offline, the date of the transaction displayed in the app and on 
your statement won't be a true reflection of when the transaction took place. 
I am satisfied with this explanation from Starling, this is something I am aware can happen 
despite a card being cancelled.
My final decision
The bank has already made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision is that Starling Bank Limited should pay £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to D if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman