DRN-4359289
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) failed to amend his name details on his bank 
statements in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr K says he contacted Lloyds in late July 2023 to inform them his surname wasnt correctly 
detailed on his bank statement. Mr K says despite this he continued to receive statements 
with the incorrect name, and this was causing him issues with his new employer as they 
required his full name correctly identified on his bank statements. Mr K says despite several 
branch visits and long waiting times on phone calls to Lloyds, this matter wasnt resolved 
until a month later. 
Mr K says Lloyds failure to correct his name details has resulted in financial hardship as he 
has been unable to be paid by his new employer and has had to borrow monies from family 
to support him. Mr K says Lloyds offer of compensation doesnt go far enough to cover the 
inconvenience he has been caused.
Lloyds says when Mr K initially opened his bank account he had incorrectly stated part of his 
surname as a middle name. Lloyds says when Mr K raised this issue with them in late July 
2023 it did amend its systems records but this took time to show on his next bank statement. 
Lloyds says to help Mr K it provided a letter for his employer to show his correct name 
details in mid- August 2023, but didnt feel its at fault here, as the initial error was made by 
Mr K when he opened his account online. Lloyds says it paid Mr K £75 by way of 
compensation for not returning his call and feel this is fair in the circumstances and also paid 
him in the region of £150 regarding his issue over the change of his address. Lloyds says 
this overall compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Mr K wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Lloyds werent responsible for Mr K providing the wrong name details on 
his account application. While the investigator agreed Lloyds didnt provide the best service 
to Mr K when it failed to return his call, it had adequately compensated Mr K for that. 
Additionally, the investigator felt Lloyds had supported Mr K in a timely manner when it 
provided a letter confirming his correct name details that could be used to forward to his 
employers. 
The investigator says Lloyds searched its records but couldnt find any records of call 
recordings for the period in question. The investigator says even if he accepts Mr Ks point 
he was kept waiting for long periods of time, the compensation overall paid by Lloyds was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr K to have his bank statements not 
showing his correct full surname and the issues that caused him with his employer.
The first thing to say here is its not the role of this service to scrutinise Lloyds complaints 
process or to tell Lloyds how it should deal with complaints more widely. I know Mr K is 
unhappy with the way Lloyds have prioritised his complaint  but my role is look at whats fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. 
So here, when looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds have adequately 
compensated Mr K for the issues he faced concerning the way his name details were 
documented on his bank account statements.
Mr K has provided this service with additional commentary about his interaction with Lloyds 
and the service he received and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on 
every point he has made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come a full and impartial 
decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything hes said- I have. 
Mr Ks complaint centres around the fact his name was documented incorrectly on his bank 
statement which caused issues starting work with his new employers. Mr K has also raised 
the point he also had previous issues regarding the address on his bank statements, but I 
can see he has been compensated for that and I am satisfied this issue has been dealt with 
fairly by Lloyds.
As far as the main issue is concerned relating to Mr Ks bank statements not showing his 
correct full surname and the ensuing problems that created for him, its worth saying here 
this was initially due to the fact Mr K put down part of his surname as his middle name when 
applying for the account online, so I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that. Mr K seems to 
accept that, but his issue surrounds both the time it took Lloyds to correct matters, as he 
continued to receive statements with the wrong surname and Lloyds failing to return a call to 
him and kept him waiting for unreasonable lengths of time over the phone. 
While I understand Mr K has told this service he has suffered financially as he wasnt able to 
start work because of the surname on his statement not matching his personal details with 
his employer and that must have been worrying for him, here I have to consider if Lloyds 
acted promptly enough when the matter was brought to its attention and here I am satisfied it 
did. I say this as I can see Mr K initially raised this issue with Lloyds on 20 July 2023 and 
from the information I have seen, Lloyds updated its back-office records at that time. 
The issue here is Lloyds systems cant back date previous statements issued 
retrospectively, only those going forward and unfortunately here a statement was sent to Mr 
K showing the old surname details, as it was sent before the update had taken place. I also 
understand a historic duplicate statement was sent to Mr K, but this of course held the old 
information and wasnt accepted by his employer however, this was due to the fact Lloyds 
systems and processes dont allow it to amend historic statements and I am unable to tell 
Lloyds it must change its processes here. 
I can then see in mid- August 2023 when Mr K raised this complaint, Lloyds then offered and sent a letter to Mr K explaining the correct surname it held on its records, to help him take 
this forward with his employer. While Mr K may not agree, in normal circumstances I would 
expect Lloyds to correct its back-office records once it had been told of the correct details 
and it did that here. I wouldnt say it would be expected to have issued the letter it did as a 
matter of everyday business, but it did provide that solution shortly after Mr K informed them 
the statements were still incorrect,  and I am satisfied that was reasonable of Lloyds here. 
So, its fair to say Lloyds have provided assistance to Mr K by providing the letter when it did, 
and I cant say it can be held responsible for any financial hardship Mr K may have suffered 
as a result of his employers not accepting this. 
Mr K has made the point he endured long phone call waiting times and Lloyds failing to call 
back when it said it would. Lloyds have searched its records and we have been provided 
with evidence it has, but it cant trace the calls Mr K refers to. Thats not to say Mr K didnt 
make those calls he may well have, but I can only look at the evidence provided to me. That 
said like the investigator as Lloyds have accepted it should have called him back and paid 
Mr K £75 for that on top of the payment it has already made for the address issues, I feel 
even if he had experienced long telephone call waiting times, I am satisfied he has been 
adequately compensated overall, in any event.     
While Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman