DRN-4048935
The complaint
Mrs S complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (True Potential) gave 
unsuitable advice to encash existing investments and set up a new investment bond which 
was placed into trust.
Miss S  Mrs Ss daughter  represents Mrs S by way of a court order. I will refer to them 
both throughout this decision.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties so I dont intend to repeat them in detail. 
To summarise, in 2018 True Potential gave Mrs S advice  through Miss S  to invest for the 
purpose of mitigating potential inheritance tax (IHT). It advised Miss S  as deputy  to 
encash Mrs Ss existing investment bonds and invest the proceeds into one bond. That bond 
was to be written into a loan trust and Mrs S would receive a regular income. Miss S, along 
with one other, would be trustee and Miss S and her sister would be the beneficiaries.
The encashment of the existing bonds created a tax charge of around £60,000. Miss S 
complained about the following:
- The advice was unsuitable as Miss S wasnt authorised by the court order to set up a 
trust.
- Miss S was both trustee and beneficiary as well as Mrs Ss deputy and feels thats a 
breach of trust law
- True Potential didnt suggest using funds from a general investment account or ISA, 
and this has meant Mrs S faced a large tax bill
- Mrs S lost her personal tax allowance which has caused additional tax charges
- True Potential used an absolute trust despite giving Miss S the impression that the 
beneficiaries could be changed
I sent out my provisional decision on 13 February 2023. My findings were as follows:
The main issue being complained about is that True Potential advised funds to be 
placed into trust, when Miss S didnt have the authority under the Court of Protection 
order. However, for completeness Ill also address the actual investment advice.
The investment advice
True Potential reviewed Mrs Ss circumstances in 2018 and was asked to provide 
advice on tax planning and inheritance tax planning. The suitability report shows Mrs 
S was a higher rate tax payer on income she received from a trust and from her 
investments. The suitability report records Miss S as saying:
I want the investments to be as well managed but cost effective as possible, I also 
need the investments to be as tax efficient as possible. The investment is for the long 
term.
Its recorded that Miss S wanted to reduce the overall IHT due on the total estate. Its 
also recorded that True Potential would review the existing investment bonds. The 
suitability report explains why the existing bonds wouldnt be able to meet the goal of 
IHT mitigation as existing investments cant be placed into a Gift and Loan trust. It 
highlighted that to surrender the existing bonds, there may be a tax liability. True 
Potential included a tax calculation that highlighted there would be more than 
£60,000 tax payable as a result of accepting the advice.
Part of the complaint Miss S made was that the tax charge wasnt made clear, but I 
disagree. I can see from the evidence Miss S submitted the overall tax that was paid 
 albeit late  was around this amount. So, I think True Potential adequately informed 
her that to accept the advice would create this liability.
The bond recommended fell in line with Mrs Ss recorded risk profile, and was similar 
to the risk of the bonds already invested in. True Potential outlined the savings in 
annual fees and charges to show that the new advice would meet Miss Ss request of 
being as cost effective as possible. Overall, Im satisfied the advice to invest into the 
one bond was suitable for the purposes of reducing costs and mitigating the potential 
IHT liability.
Im also satisfied that the only way to provide the level of investment needed to 
continue the income Mrs S required was to encash the existing bonds. Mrs Ss ISA 
was already tax efficient and if any funds in her general investment account were 
used, the assets would also need to be sold prior to placing into a trust so a tax 
liability would always have occurred.
The trust
Ill first address Miss Ss complaint points that she shouldnt be a beneficiary, trustee 
and Mrs Ss guardian as it may be a breach of trust law. Our Investigator set out his 
reasons as to why he didnt think this was the case and I agree. Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest this is an issue. Miss S was signing for Mrs S  who is the settlor 
here so Miss S is free to be both trustee and beneficiary. I also note that the wording 
is clear in True Potentials suitability letter that it is only a discretionary trust that can 
accommodate beneficiary changes and not the absolute trust so I dont think it misled 
Miss S in the way she set out in the complaint. Ill now turn to the main issue.
The crux of this complaint is about reinvesting funds into a bond which is held in 
trust. Miss S has now provided confirmation from the Office of the Public Guardian 
that the Court of Protection Order doesnt allow her to enter into a trust agreement on 
behalf of Mrs S. I need to decide what, if any, action True Potential must take 
because of this, and whether True Potential has caused detriment.
Miss S has explained that True Potential said it would check with the Court of 
Protection whether a trust would be allowed and it didnt do so. I can see that this is 
the case and I do think True Potential ought to have checked when it said it would. 
Ordinarily, it is the deputys responsibility  Miss S in this case  to ensure she 
understands what she can and cant do legally. But, I accept that she went to True 
Potential for advice and True Potential said it would check and didnt do so. 
True Potential was aware that the Court of Protection wouldnt allow IHT planning 
due to not being aware how much money Mrs S would need in the future for her care 
 this is recorded in the fact find. It said that by recommending a loan trust, the funds 
remained accessible to Mrs S, and were repayable on demand. It felt that this 
therefore allowed for some IHT mitigation whilst ensuring Mrs S could retain the 
funds and use as much as she needed. I can understand the logic in this. Ive also 
read the court order appointing Miss S as deputy, and its ambiguous as to whether a 
trust would be able to be set up  so whilst I do think True Potential ought to have 
done what it said it would and check, I can understand why it felt its advice didnt go 
against the court order.We now know that a trust wasnt permitted to be set up. Miss S has said this means 
the trust must now be wound up as the advice was unsuitable  she also asks for a 
refund of the tax paid on bond encashment as well as fees and charges. I do 
understand why she feels this is the only solution but Im not persuaded at this point 
that Mrs S has suffered any detriment.
The Office of the Public Guardian confirmed a trust wasnt permitted, but its exact 
wording was:
We can confirm that creating a trust of the persons property should not take place 
unless you have further court approval. This would entail re-applying to the Court of 
Protection in order to have the relevant permissions to do this.
Miss S says the Office of the Public Guardian also confirmed retrospective 
permission could be applied for. However, she says this isnt what the complaint is 
about  she says the advice shouldnt have been given. In this case, I agree True 
Potential shouldve done what it said it would and check, but at this point I cant 
agree that this means the investment and trust needs to be unwound.
Miss S clearly wanted to address her mothers IHT liability  and the advice True 
Potential gave was suitable for this objective. It enabled Mrs S to have full access to 
her funds, for the growth to be outside of the estate and, as Mrs S received a regular 
income which was intended to pay for her care costs, had to ability the reduce her 
estate because shed be spending the money regularly.
Detriment
All of the above leads me on to thinking about detriment  that is whether Mrs S has 
lost out here. Its clear now that Miss S wasnt permitted to set up a trust  and Id 
mention this has only become clear very recently as Miss S asked the Office of the 
Public Guardian after our Investigators view. But its also clear that she can apply for 
retrospective permission. Theres not been any indication that permission would be 
declined  particularly because the funds are still entirely accessible by Mrs S. But 
Im unable to speculate on what the courts decision would be. And until that decision 
has been made I cant conclude that there has been any detriment. If the court 
declines permission then its likely action needs to be taken  but True Potential has 
said it would consider this complaint again if this was the case and Id expect it to do 
so.
At this point, it doesnt feel fair or reasonable to ask True Potential to refund amounts 
paid for its advice and associated costs for the trust to be unwound when an 
application to the court may mean it can continue. And if permission is granted, the 
investment and trust is entirely suitable for the objectives Miss S set out.
Whilst I do think it is Miss Ss responsibility to know what she can and cannot do as 
deputy for Mrs S, I also think True Potential ought to have carried out the check with 
the Court of Protection, but only because it said it would. As it didnt do this, it should 
ensure the costs of applying for retrospective permission are covered.
Going forward
I must make clear that this decision is based on the information available at present 
and the outcome is that True Potential should pay for the application Miss S needs to 
make for retrospective permission to create a trust with Mrs Ss investment. Any 
outcome of that application would be material new evidence that would need to be 
considered by True Potential, and in doing so it should provide new referral rights to 
our service for the complaint relating to whether that permission is accepted or 
declined. In turn, this service would consider the merits of the complaint relating to 
what should happen if the trust is not permitted after application. Putting things right
True Potential Wealth Management LLP must cover the application fee for Miss S  
as deputy for Mrs S - applying to the Court of Protection for retrospective permission 
 this should be paid to Miss S following receipt of the application having been 
made.
Responses to the provisional decision
True Potential accepted the provisional decision, but asked whether it would be able to 
review the application for retrospective permission as it has relevant information and wants 
to ensure the facts are listed correctly. Following this request I asked for Miss Ss comments 
as I was minded to say that was fair.
Miss Ss financial adviser made some additional points on her behalf. She said the following:
- No consideration has been given to the vulnerability of Miss S  Mrs Ss deputy.
- Any tax liability that may have been created by cashing in Mrs Ss general investment 
account hasnt been quantified  without this the outcome that the surrender of the 
bonds was suitable isnt justified.
Miss S didnt provide any additional comments relating to True Potential seeing the 
application for retrospective permission before its submitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the comments made by both parties, Ive reached the same outcome set 
out in my provisional decision (relevant extract above which forms part of this decision). The 
only amendment Im making is that I do believe its fair for True Potential to review the 
application to the Court of Protection for retrospective permission prior to it being submitted 
as it holds many of the facts the advice was based upon. Ill now address the comments 
from Miss S.
Firstly, I had noted that Miss Ss financial adviser raised her vulnerability. I think its 
important to note that this complaint is about the advice given to Mrs S - with Miss S acting 
as her court appointed deputy. The advice was based on Mrs Ss circumstances at the time 
and Ive seen nothing to suggest that advice was unsuitable. I note that Miss S trusted True 
Potential to give the right advice, and Ive concluded that subject to retrospective permission 
being granted, that advice was suitable for the circumstances True Potential were given. I 
also concluded that it was Miss Ss responsibility as deputy to understand the limits of the 
Court of Protection order, however True Potential shouldve checked with the court as it said 
it would. Its because of that omission that Im directing True Potential to cover the cost of 
the application for retrospective permission.
The second point Miss S has made is that any potential tax charges from cashing in Mrs Ss 
general investment account (GIA) hasnt been quantified  so we cant conclude that this 
wouldnt have been a better option. I agree this hasnt been quantified but I dont think it 
needs to be here. Its likely that had the investments within the GIA made gains over the 
many years it had been in existence, that a tax charge would be inevitable. In any event, 
Mrs S needed an income  as she was already receiving one from her bonds. If shed only 
encashed the GIA to place into a bond this wouldnt have provided her with sufficient income 
nor would it have satisfied the IHT mitigation that Miss S had said was of high importance  
this was only achieved with the creation of the loan trust  which may be permitted after an 
application for retrospective permission. 
Ive not been provided any additional evidence that has led me to conclude that the advice 
True Potential gave Miss S, on behalf of Mrs S, was unsuitable for her objectives based on the current information we have. And Ive explained above in detail (in the provisional 
decision extract) why, based on current evidence, I think the investment advice was suitable, 
and that I believed True Potential made it very clear what the tax consequences of that 
advice would be. The only remaining issue is whether retrospective permission is granted  
and up until this is applied for, I cant say theres been any detriment.
Going forward
I must make clear that this decision is based on the information available at present and the 
outcome is that True Potential should review and pay for the application Miss S needs to 
make for retrospective permission to create a trust with Mrs Ss investment. Any outcome of 
that application would be material new evidence that would need to be considered by True 
Potential, and in doing so it should provide new referral rights to our service for the complaint 
relating to whether that permission is accepted or declined. In turn, this service would 
consider the merits of the complaint relating to what should happen if the trust is not 
permitted after application. 
Putting things right
True Potential Wealth Management LLP must cover the application fee for Miss S  as 
deputy for Mrs S - applying to the Court of Protection for retrospective permission. The 
following steps must happen before it is paid to Miss S:
- True Potential Wealth Management LLP should review the facts listed in the 
application for retrospective permission and an agreement should be reached on the 
content of the application between both parties before it is submitted.
- Miss S should provide a receipt showing the application has been submitted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I partially uphold this complaint and direct True Potential 
Wealth Management LLP to carry out the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman