DRN-3938098
The complaint
Mr K complains that ReAssure Limited cant locate and provide information about a policy he 
took out in 1989. 
What happened
Mr K set up several policies with Legal & General (L&G) in the late 1980s. In October 2018 
L&G sent a letter to Mr K about a change of name hed requested in 1997. The letter 
specifically referred to policy number ****939. 
L&Gs pension business was taken over by ReAssure in 2020. 
Mr K wrote to ReAssure in August and October 2020. In his letter of 1 October 2020 Mr K 
said he wanted to withdraw some funds from his pension plans. He listed three policy 
numbers including ****939 and he asked for current fund values. Ive seen Mr K wrote again 
on 26 October 2020 saying he hadnt had replies to his letters of 31 August and 1 October 
2020 and he was making a formal complaint.  
It seems that initially ReAssure was unable to give Mr K any information about policy number 
****939. ReAssure investigated further and wrote to Mr K on 31 August 2021. ReAssure 
confirmed the policy had been set up on 4 March 1989 but subsequently wasnt proceeded 
with and no premiums were ever received. 
Mr K didnt think what ReAssure said was correct. Mr K contacted us and we referred his 
complaint to ReAssure. ReAssure sent its final response to Mr K on 31 December 2021. 
ReAssure said policy number ****939 was never taken up. L&G had received the application 
form dated 4 March 1989 and policy number ****939 was assigned. But no premiums were 
ever paid and so L&G cancelled the policy from inception. 
Mr K asked us to look into what had happened. He said L&Gs letter of 24 October 2018 
confirmed the policy existed and, as hed never accessed the policy, it must still exist. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. In summary our investigator said there 
was no evidence that any premiums had been paid into the policy. Apart from the letter sent 
in 2018 there was no documentary evidence relating to the policy. And, in 1998 L&G had, in 
response to a letter from Mr K, sent details of four policies he held with L&G. The 
correspondence didnt list policy number ****939. And it didnt seem Mr K raised any issue 
about that policy not being mentioned. The investigator said there was no evidence that Mr K 
had been notified that policy number ****939 had lapsed or that no premiums had been 
received. A similar letter had been sent in 1993 for a different policy. The investigators view 
was that policy number ****939 wasnt an active policy. Mr K had suffered a loss of 
expectation but there was no evidence of any financial loss. 
But the investigator thought the customer service Mr K had received was lacking  hed been 
sent the letter in 2018 but no follow up to say a mistake had potentially been made. And hed 
queried things with ReAssure in August 2020 and didnt get an answer until August 2021. 
The investigator recommended a distress and inconvenience payment of £100. 
In response ReAssure said it thought the issues raised had been covered in a final decision 
wed issued on another complaint made by Mr K. The investigator replied, saying that 
decision focused on customer service issues arising in connection with two different policies 
whereas Mr Ks current complaint concerned policy number ****939.
ReAssure said, although it had taken over twelve months to tell Mr K the policy hadnt been 
taken up at inception, Mr K shouldve been aware of that. Hed have known he wasnt paying 
premiums and no annual statements had been issued. ReAssure added that it wasnt 
obliged to keep records for policy that hadnt been taken up. So it didnt hold documentation 
which wouldve been sent to say the policy had lapsed. ReAssure didnt agree Mr K had 
suffered a loss of expectation. 
Mr K said compensation of £100 was inadequate. 
We told Mr K and ReAssure that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman. But 
subsequently the investigator wrote to Mr K and ReAssure saying that the complaint had 
been resolved, ReAssure having agreed to pay the compensation suggested by the 
investigator, and we were closing our file. 
Mr K replied saying he was confused as he hadnt accepted the amount which the 
investigator had suggested ReAssure should pay and hed asked for an ombudsman to look 
into the case. He later received a cheque from ReAssure for £100 which he destroyed as he 
didnt accept that was adequate compensation. 
The investigator confirmed to Mr K that the complaint had been put back in the queue for an 
ombudsmans decision and that due to the time that had elapsed hed try to get it allocated 
sooner than would normally happen. He apologised for the confusion regarding the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems we mistakenly thought Mr K would be prepared to accept £100 in settlement of his 
complaint. And ReAssure agreed to pay that sum and sent Mr K a cheque. But Mr Ks made 
it clear he doesnt think that sum is adequate and he wants an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Im sorry for our misunderstanding.
Ive considered Mr Ks complaint. But, having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached 
by the investigator on the central issue of whether policy number ****939 still exists. 
Where, as here, a complaint dates back some time, ascertaining exactly whats happened 
can be difficult. It may be that not all records will have survived  although sometimes a lack 
of records will suggest a policy never became active. Here theres no doubt that a policy was 
set up  ReAssure has confirmed that and the date  4 March 1989. But thereafter, aside 
from the letter dated 24 October 2018, theres no documentary evidence relating to the 
policy. No statements appear to have been issued and theres been no correspondence 
generally.  
Ive considered the 24 October 2018 letter very carefully. Its specifically about policy number 
****939  the heading of the letter is Mr Ks name and that policy number. And it says L&G 
had identified that as a plan held with it by Mr K and in respect of which documents to 
confirm a name change were outstanding. I can understand why Mr K points to the letter as clear evidence that the policy exists. But I dont think the letter is determinative. It may simply 
have been sent by mistake. So Ive looked at what other evidence there is to show the policy 
was active. 
I know Mr K says he recalls making contributions to the policy but he hasnt been able to 
produce evidence to show that. I do understand his difficulties, given the time thats elapsed 
since the policy was set up, in getting bank statements to show that payments were made. 
But Im not sure that would have shown into which policy payments were made. Mr K did 
have several other policies with L&G so its possible that payments were made into those 
plans instead. 
I note the investigator said Mr K shouldve been notified if the policy had lapsed. Had some 
contributions been made but then ceased, I think L&G/ReAssure wouldve needed to have 
notified Mr K as to any residual value, both at the time the policy was made paid up and over 
the following years. But, if no contributions were paid, the policy wouldve had no value and 
been cancelled from inception and it seems no notification was sent. Or if it was, given that 
the policy wouldve been cancelled over thirty years ago, no record has been retained. 
On balance and from what Ive seen, I think its more likely that the policy was set up but for 
whatever reason the planned contributions were never made. I cant say Mr Ks policy 
number ****939 was ever active. So I dont think hes suffered any financial loss in 
consequence of ReAssure being unable to trace all the details and say exactly what 
happened to the policy after it had been set up. 
Ive also considered how ReAssure dealt with the matter. Mr K contacted ReAssure about 
three pension policies, including policy number ****939 in August 2020 and again in October 
2020. It wasnt until 31 August 2021 that ReAssure was able to tell Mr K that the policy had 
been set up but no premiums had been paid so the policy hadnt proceeded. I accept 
ReAssure wouldve needed some time to look into the matter and there may have been a 
large number of files, records, systems etc to check. Sometimes searching for something 
thats not there may take longer than finding something which does exist. But I dont think it 
shouldve taken ReAssure about a year to get back to Mr K with a definite answer about the 
policy.
And Mr K had to chase for responses. For example, in his letter of 26 October 2020 he said 
hed received no replies to his letters sent in August and October 2020. And in his letter 
dated 3 February 2021 Mr K sets out information that hed requested about his policies, 
including policy number ****939, which ReAssure hadnt provided. 
I think there was some delay in some of the correspondence reaching Mr K. For example he 
didnt get ReAssures letter of 31 August 2021 until 14 October 2021. But Mr K lives abroad 
and I cant say that any delays were ReAssures fault as opposed to delays in the postal 
service. 
I know Mr K feels very strongly that £100 isnt adequate compensation for ReAssures 
failings. Hes brought three complaints about ReAssure (and hes mentioned a further 
possible complaint). I understand two complaints have been upheld and Im upholding this 
third complaint to the extent that I dont think ReAssure dealt with the matter well. Mr Ks 
various issues with ReAssure will no doubt have dented his confidence in ReAssures ability 
to investigate properly what happened with policy number ****939.  
But Mr Ks other complaints have been dealt with separately and Im only considering here 
his complaint about policy number ****939. That said, I recognise that having to bring a 
further complaint will likely have impacted more on him  hes likely to have suffered a greater degree of disappointment and frustration in having to complain again. And, as hes 
stressed, hes found his dealings with ReAssure time consuming and tiring. 
But I havent upheld Mr Ks central complaint  that he has a policy with some value thats 
gone missing. All Ive found is that ReAssure couldve dealt with Mr Ks queries and his 
complaint quicker. In the circumstances I think the sum suggested by the investigator, £100, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but in part only. ReAssure Limited must pay Mr K £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience suffered as a result of ReAssure Limiteds handling of his 
enquiries. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman