DRN-3799365
The complaint
Mrs H complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)s poor standard of service under 
her home emergency policy. 
What happened
A BG engineer attended Mrs Hs tenanted property to carry out a first inspection of the 
boiler, to check that it was in good working order to be covered under the policy. The 
engineer failed the boiler, as he discovered a gas leak and capped it off. The BG engineer 
gave a verbal quote for the repair, which he said was rejected. Mrs H describes that the 
engineer then recommended a friend who attended and gave a quote that she felt was too 
expensive.
Mrs H explained that she felt that the BG engineer and his friend were dishonest and took 
advantage of her because she was a woman. She said that she asked the friend to leave 
when he said the repair would cost between £1,000 - £2,000. She raised a complaint to BG, 
after she had engaged the services of another engineer who carried our traces to locate 
where the leak was coming from and repaired the leak. 
Mrs H complained to BG as her tenants had been left without gas for a few days, in winter. 
She also said that she was distressed as a result of the BG engineer and his friend. And that 
it was unfair that she was left with a bill of £375, for the repair. 
In its final response, BG confirmed that it had reimbursed the third-party engineers bill. 
Offered Mrs H £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. And she was given her 
referral rights. As Mrs H remained unhappy (as she said that she had to continually chase 
BG for a resolution, and she had to cancel a family trip to sort out the problem with the 
boiler) she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that he looked at what happened at the initial appointment, the issues this caused and BGs 
actions. He concluded that BG had acted reasonably, as it not only refunded the third-party 
engineers costs (which was a cost that BG shouldnt have refunded as Mrs Hs boiler had 
failed the initial inspection). BG had also refunded the two premium payments that Mrs H 
had made on the policy. And it offered compensation of £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused, which he thought was fair. 
BG accepted the view, Mrs H did not. She said that the actions of the BG engineer and his 
friend caused her much distress and the £75 wasnt enough compensation. Especially as 
she had lost out on a family holiday and lost money. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs H, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mrs Hs boiler had to have a first inspection before coming on cover with BG. BG sent an 
engineer to carry this out. The boiler failed the inspection due to a leak. Following this Mrs H 
said that she felt that the BG engineer and his friend (whom he had called and convinced 
Mrs H that he could repair the leak) were dishonest and took advantage of her as she was a 
woman. 
Mrs H felt that BG had treated her unfairly. So, Ive had a look at what actions BG took from 
the initial inspection of the boiler, what happened as a result and whether BG should have 
done anything differently. 
I understand that Mrs H has raised a number of points, which I have considered. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, its not necessary to comment on all of them, as we are 
tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality and on 
an impartial basis. The main issue of this complaint is whether BG were fair in their offer of 
compensation. In particularly, whether BG ought to reimburse Mrs H the cost of lost trip 
away, as well as the cost of the premiums paid. 
BG has provided evidence to show that the two premium payments made by Mrs H have 
been refunded to her. It explained that Mrs H had cancelled her direct debit and this in turn 
cancelled the policy and generated the refund, as per the policy terms. Mrs H requested that 
the payments be refunded and from the evidence, I think that they have. So, there is nothing 
further I can ask BG to do regarding the premium payments. 
Mrs H believes that BG were ultimately responsible for the money that she lost as a result of 
her not being able to take a pre-planned trip away. So, Ive had a look at this. 
From the evidence, the reason for BGs attendance at Mrs Hs property was to check that 
the boiler that she wished to cover under a home emergency policy, was in good working 
order. Its engineer found that there was a leak and capped the boiler. So, at this point the 
boiler had failed the initial inspection and could no longer be covered under the policy. 
Ive had a look at the policy terms and conditions to see what BGs obligations to Mrs H 
were. It stated: At the first service our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved 
list and your boiler or central heating and ventilation dont have any pre-existing faults. If we 
find its not on the approved list or it has a pre-existing fault, well either:  tell you what 
needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost. 
The attendance note indicated that the engineer provided a verbal quote to the responsible 
adult present. I can see that that person wasnt Mrs H but was her tenant.  Mrs H said that 
she had never received such a quote either verbally or via email. But, given that her tenant 
was present at the time and she was not, Im not satisfied that Mrs H has provided enough 
evidence to say that her tenant wasnt given the verbal quote nor what needed to be done to 
fix the leak. 
Mrs H said that hypothetically had she contacted BG (instead of following the BG engineers 
friend) she wouldve got a BG engineer out to her property within a day and the leak 
wouldve been fixed for a one-off fee. But, Im unable to consider something that Mrs H describes as hypothetical. I can only look at what actually happened. And Im satisfied that 
there was enough evidence to show that the BG engineer who attended, capped the gas, 
provided a verbal quote that was rejected and was told that a local gas safe engineer would 
be contacted. BG said that it is likely this was the reason why its engineer recommended his 
friend. But I think that despite the recommendation, Mrs H had a choice of whether to use 
the recommended engineer or to find an independent one. Ultimately, Mrs H chose an 
independent engineer, who I can see attended on the same day as the BG engineer. 
From the independent engineers report, he found that the gas had been isolated, which 
accords with the evidence from BG. He then carried out tests and located the leak coming 
from outside, which I understand was resolved that same day. A few days later, the 
independent engineer re-attended to re-connect the gas. He said in his report, there was a 
delay as he was unable to attend sooner due to work commitments. I also note that the 
tenant was provided with temporary heating and cooking facilities. 
BG said that as the boiler had failed the first inspection, no work wouldve been covered 
under the policy as the boiler would not have come on cover. The policy wouldve been 
cancelled, and a full refund wouldve been provided.
As I have mentioned, BG provided a full refund of the premiums Mrs H made. And following 
Mrs Hs complaint to BG, it also reimbursed Mrs Hs independent engineers fee of £375. Im 
satisfied that the refund of the premiums is in line with the policy terms. Im satisfied that the 
reimbursement of the third-party engineer, was fair, given that the policy wouldve been 
cancelled, and no work wouldve been done following the failure of the boiler. 
Mrs H said that BG ought to have reimbursed her lost trip costs, as she blames the BG 
engineers conduct, which she said fell below that of a competent engineer and the 
dishonesty of his friend. But having reviewed the evidence, I dont agree, and Ill explain 
why. 
Mrs H instructed the independent engineer on the same day as BG had attended. Following 
the tests, he carried out to locate the leak (which incidentally would not have been covered 
under the BG policy, as the boiler had failed) the leak was repaired that same day.  It wasnt 
until a few days later that Mrs Hs independent engineer re-attended to re-connect the gas. 
So, I think any delay in re-establishing gas in the property was due to Mrs Hs independent 
engineer who said he couldnt re-attend sooner. Further, although Mrs H said that her 
tenants were without heating or cooking facilities, I can see that temporary heaters and a 
hob were left for this. Consequently, I dont think its fair or reasonable for BG to reimburse 
Mrs Hs family trip costs.
Finally, BG offered £75 for the inconvenience caused to Mrs H. Given that it had reimbursed 
the third-party engineers costs (which it shouldnt have) and refunded the premium 
payments (in line with the policy). I think the £75 offered was a fair reflection of the impact 
this event caused to Mrs H. And if, this payment hasnt been made, then it should be done 
as soon as practical. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs H will be, Im not 
satisfied that BG should increase its offer of compensation, as I think that BG dealt with Mrs 
Hs complaint fairly. So, I cant ask BG to reasonably do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I think that British Gas Insurance Limiteds offer of compensation of 
£75 for the trouble and upset caused. And the reimbursement of the third-party engineers 
fees of £375, as well as the refunding of all premium payments, are fair and reasonable.
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay the £75 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs H, unless this has already been done. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman