DRN-4354775
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service he received from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited under his motor policy following an accident with his car. He specifically complained 
about the delay in providing a courtesy car. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in accident on 12 December 2022 and Advantage took his car to its 
approved repairers. Those repairers initially told Mr R his car was a total loss on. As the 
incident happened just before Christmas and Mr R would then be without a car, he made 
arrangements to try and find another car. He did but he had to pay a non-refundable deposit 
of £500.
 
He also thought he was entitled to a courtesy car as thats what he had opted for on the 
aggregate website whilst finding this policy. But Advantage explained his policy only 
provided for a courtesy car in the event his car was being repaired. 
It turned out Mr Rs car was in fact repairable, so he was entitled to a courtesy car, but this 
was at odds with what Advantages approved repairer initially told him. Advantage decided 
this on 14 December and then told Mr R this on 16 December. 
Given the mixed messages from the approved repairers plus the confusion over a courtesy 
car, Mr R said it had been very distressing given it was all so close to Christmas. Advantage 
didnt think it had done anything wrong but paid Mr R £30 compensation for the slight delay 
in providing the courtesy car. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator felt Advantage 
could have done more and said it should pay Mr R a further £100 compensation. Whilst Mr R 
agreed, Advantage didnt, so Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill now 
explain why. 
Being involved in an accident is always a distressing event and although car insurers like 
Advantage arent at all responsible for the accident occurring, it knows how distressing it can 
be for their customers involved. 
Mr R suffered from two instances of confusion. The first was that he thought given the details 
he had inputted into the aggregator website in finding this policy he would always be entitled 
to a courtesy car. This was obviously wrong as Advantage explained its policy in line with 
many others in the industry dont provide a courtesy unless the car is taken to one of its 
approved repairers and more importantly that the car was deemed repairable. 
This brings us to the second area of confusion, Advantages approved repairers told Mr R 
his car would be deemed a total loss. Given it was near Christmas and given it was then 
clear to Mr R he wouldnt be at all entitled to a courtesy car given his car was apparently a 
total loss, this caused him to go out searching for a new car. He wasnt told by Advantage it 
would check its approved repairers view on his car, or that the decision could change. 
Whilst Im not that convinced Advantage overly delayed, I do consider its and its approved 
repairers communications with Mr R were less than clear at the time, which caused Mr R 
more aggravation and inconvenience than necessary. 
Therefore, I do consider the payment of further compensation to be warranted. Im of the 
view that the investigators thoughts of a further £100 compensation to be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances and of the level I would have decided on if he hadnt 
already suggested it. Whilst I dont have any evidence of the non-refundable deposit Mr R 
said he paid on another car, I do consider he was put to unnecessary trouble and upset 
given the mixed messages he received from Advantage and its approved repairers over 
whether his car was a total loss or not. I consider Mr R had no reason to doubt the approved 
repairers view that his car would be deemed a total loss. The approved repairers are agents 
of Advantage, and it was perfectly understandable why Mr R relied on their opinion, 
regardless of the fact that their decision was overridden.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R a further sum of £100 
compensation in addition to the £30 it already paid him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman