DRN-3047272
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) before September 2001 and a 
Platinum Account (PA) in September 2004 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says that she was pressured into taking the SA and the PA and their benefits were of 
little use to her.
Lloyds says that it recommended the two accounts to Mrs S and advised her to take them on 
both occasions as it says they were suitable for her, in her circumstances at the time.
I wasnt present at either of the sales so I can only base my decision on the evidence 
available to me today.
Fee free accounts were widely available and advertised at the time of both sales, and 
packaged bank accounts had only been available for a few years when Mrs S first took out 
the SA. So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs S knew she could have a fee free 
account if she wanted one.
I recognise that Mrs S has given her honest recollections and says she felt pressured in both 
sales. And I think its likely that Lloyds told her a lot about the accounts, as it was trying to 
sell the SA and PA on both occasions. But I cant see any reason why Mrs S couldnt have 
declined and continued with a fee free account if shed wanted to.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs S knew she had a choice and chose to take out 
the SA and PA on both occasions.
Both parties agree that the sales were advised, and so Lloyds was required to ensure the 
products were suitable for Mrs S.
The adjudicator listed out the details of the products in his view, so I wont repeat them here.
In my view there was nothing about Mrs Ss circumstances on either occasion that would 
enable me to say the SA or PA were unsuitable for her.
Mrs S appears to have had a regular income; she used and benefitted from the interest free 
overdraft. When she had the SA, Mrs S called out the car breakdown service. She then 
upgraded to the PA and used the car breakdown service another three times and continued 
to use her interest free overdraft. 
In my view, this shows that Mrs S had received the information about the products and knew 
how to use them. Although Mrs S says she didnt use all the benefits and had some 
alternative cover at times, it was for her to decide what to use, and she could have closed 
the accounts at any time but didnt for many years.
So, although I know that Mrs S will be disappointed, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong 
in these sales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman