DRN-3386107
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he received from Gemini Wealth Management 
Limited in respect of transferring a defined benefit occupational pension (which Ill refer to as 
the work pension) to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of his employers work pension scheme. In October 2017 the 
employer provided him with information about his work pension  including that the cash 
equivalent transfer value was £799,898.36.
On 19 October a fact find document was completed which outlined Mr Ms financial position 
and objectives. Of note, it was recorded that:
Mr M was 54 and was considering phasing in his retirement from age 55
he wanted to consider transferring the work pension to a personal pension where he 
could access his funds via a drawdown
he intended to retire from full-time employment and move to part-time, so he needed a 
flexible retirement income
he felt the death benefits via a drawdown were better suited to his circumstances than 
the 50% spouses pension available under the work pension
he was interested in using a significant amount of the tax-free cash available by 
transferring for home improvements
he considered himself to be a low to medium risk investor.
A separate risk profile questionnaire recorded Mr Ms attitude to risk as 3/10 (with 1 being 
low). Gemini classed this as cautious.
A file note made at the time by the advisor said that having given consideration to the 
various risks Mr M was of the view that an income drawdown best suited his retirement 
needs.
Mr M emailed the advisor on 12 December confirming that he intended to transfer his work 
pension because:
he would have full control over it
the death benefits under the new arrangement could be utilised by his wife and children
he could take early retirement, and
he was confident with the risk of an investment fund rather than his employers offer.
Mr M told us the advisor visited him and asked that he send this email so that he could pass 
it to his compliance department. He also told us the reasons he gave in the email were the 
words of the advisor.
On 13 December Gemini provided Mr M with its recommendation report. The report 
summarised much of what Ive outlined above and:
said the work pension was projected at age 65 to provide Mr M with an estimated annual 
retirement income of £25,186; or a reduced retirement income of £17,775 having taken 
£118,500 as tax-free cash
outlined the various risks of transferring
said the critical yield (which is how much the new pension needed to grow by in order to 
match the benefits of the work pension) was:
Retirement age Pension taken Critical yield
55 Full over 50%
55 Reduced, with tax-free cash 39.56%
60 Full 11.67%
60 Reduced, with tax-free cash 8.4%
said the critical yield for all options was unlikely to be achieved
listed various pros and cons in transferring, including:
opros = Mr M had control over where his funds were invested; he could take the 
benefits flexibly, he could phase taking his benefits
ocons = the work pension provided guaranteed benefits; the critical yields were 
high; transferring exposed Mr M to risks he wouldnt have with the work pension.
Gemini recommended that Mr M transfer the work pension to a personal pension. The 
reasons given for the recommendation were that his wife would have more choice for how 
she took benefits upon his death; and the new plan allowed Mr M the flexibility of retirement 
options and a suitable range of funds to invest in.
Mr M followed the recommendation and his work pension was transferred to a personal 
pension. The transfer was completed in February 2018.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which set out why I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below, and they form part of my 
final decision.
Relevant rules/considerations
There were various rules and principles that Gemini had to abide by/follow at the time it 
gave the advice. Three I thought were particularly important were:
othe advice had to be suitable
oGemini had to work on the basis that advice to transfer the work pension was 
unsuitable; and it only became suitable if it could be clearly shown to be in Mr Ms 
best interests, and
oGemini had to treat Mr M fairly and act in his best interests.
General observations
My overall impression of Geminis defence in this case was that the recommendation to 
transfer was suitable because it met Mr Ms objectives and transferring was the only way 
his objectives could be met. I didnt think that argument in itself was persuasive because 
what a consumer wanted (ie their objectives) and what was actually suitable for them or 
in their best interests might be two different things. In essence, Gemini shouldnt have 
recommended a transfer simply because it met a consumers objectives. If the transfer 
was unsuitable then it was unsuitable, and the recommendation should be to not transfer. And if the consumer then wanted to ignore the advice and transfer anyway that 
was their prerogative.
Gemini mentioned that our investigator hadnt set out how Mr Ms objectives could have 
been met. Its not our role to explain what options were available to Mr M. There may 
have been a variety of options available to a consumer that met their objectives, but it 
might be that none of them were suitable or in their best interests. Sometimes it might 
have to be explained to consumers that their objectives/expectations are either 
unrealistic or only achievable if they take action that is unsuitable for them.
Was the advice suitable?
While there are other factors, in most cases the key issues in me deciding whether or not 
advice to transfer was suitable are the critical yield, the consumers attitude to risk and 
their capacity for loss of their pension.
Gemini argued the critical yield was irrelevant in this case as Mr M never intended to buy 
an annuity but I disagreed. This was because Gemini had a responsibility to explain to 
Mr M in a clear way how a transfer would compare with what he was giving up. COBS 
19.1.7 said that when a business advises a retail client on a pension transfer it should 
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So I thought the critical 
yield was important in determining whether Mr Ms pension might be worth more or less 
by transferring.
Our investigator referred to 'discount rates' being a good indicator of what level of growth 
would have been considered reasonably achievable; and she quoted a discount rate of 
3.1% per year for five years to retirement  which was well below any of the critical yields 
needed. Based on the figure quoted, I concluded it was very unlikely the critical yield 
would have been achieved  particularly given Mr Ms relatively low attitude to risk 
(which meant his funds would be invested in low risk investments, which would unlikely 
grow to the required level).
In respect of Mr Ms capacity for loss of his pension, as he had a separate personal 
pension he could fall back on there was an argument that he could absorb some loss of 
his work pension funds. However, at the time of the advice the personal pension was 
said to have a value of around £300,000 (compared to the nearly £800,000 for the work 
pension). So the work pension was expected to be Mr Ms main provision for retirement 
income. And his capacity for losing the value of his work pension was therefore lower 
than it might otherwise have been.
I also thought the fact Mr M had another personal pension (the value of which increased 
significantly a few months after the transfer of the work pension was complete) was 
relevant to the transfer advice. That was because death benefits, the ability to take 
income flexibly and the ability to take tax-free cash were all mentioned in respect of 
Mr Ms objectives and as reasons for the transfer of the work pension. It appeared to me 
that these needs could have been met by the personal pension.
For the death benefits, although it was understandable how Mr M felt about passing his 
pension to his wife if he died Geminis role was to advise him about the realistic situation 
(given that he was in good health  which called into question the likelihood of him 
actually dying early) and the implications for him and his family. It also needed to be 
remembered that the primary purpose of Mr Ms pension was to provide an income in 
retirement  it wasnt to provide life insurance cover.Gemini broadly set out the situation with the death benefits in the recommendation 
report. But I thought there were some weaknesses in the information it provided. One 
example was that under the pros and cons section of the report it said that if Mr M died 
before he reached age 75 his wife could receive the remaining fund value  which it 
quoted as approximately £800,000. I thought that messaging was unclear because in the 
body of the report Gemini warned that Mr Ms funds might run out if he lived longer than 
expected, if the investment returns were lower and/or if he drew too much income over 
the years  which in turn would mean there would be little or no death benefits to pass 
on upon his death.
The report also said that Mr Ms wife would prefer a flexible income upon Mr Ms death 
rather than the guaranteed income that would be provided by the work pension. But I 
couldnt see that Gemini had assessed what income Mr M thought his wife would need if 
he died. I couldnt therefore see that Gemini considered whether the spouses pension 
available from the work pension, together with her own pension provisions and any death 
benefits she could/would receive from Mr Ms personal pension, would have been 
sufficient to meet this need. So while it might have been preferable upon Mr Ms death 
for his wife to receive a lump sum payment, it hadnt been shown that this was actually 
necessary or that it was worth giving up the guaranteed benefits of the work pension for.
For the flexible income, I hadnt seen anything which showed that any analysis was done 
in respect of how Mr M could alternatively use his personal pension to top up any 
income requirements that werent met by the work pension. Similarly, I couldnt see that 
any analysis was done in respect of how Mr M could potentially take tax-free cash from 
his personal pension to use for home improvements. I thought this was particularly 
important given that the compensation paid into the personal pension a month or so after 
the work pension transfer completed was significant  which meant the value of the 
personal pension was essentially the same as the transfer value of the work pension. So 
any need for flexible income and/or tax-free cash Mr M had could easily have been met 
by the personal pension.
Finally, based on what was known at the time (ie the personal pension having a value of 
around £300,000), Geminis recommendation meant Mr M went from a position of being 
unlikely to exceed the lifetime allowance (LTA) to one where he definitely would  thus 
exposing him to a LTA charge on the funds over and above the LTA. Its not always the 
case that advice to transfer a work pension is unsuitable just because the consumer will 
exceed the LTA. However, I thought in this case it added to the issues Id outlined above.
It turned out that the personal pension was eventually valued at around £840,000, which 
meant Mr M would have exceeded the LTA even if he hadnt transferred the work 
pension. But the increase in the personal pension value meant Mr M significantly 
exceeded the LTA by transferring, which in turn meant his LTA charge would also 
significantly increase. I accepted that at the time of the advice it was thought the 
personal pension would only be valued at £300,000; however, Gemini knew 
compensation was most likely going to be paid into the personal pension. And Mr M was 
still a few months away from turning 55 (he couldnt take the tax-free cash until then). So 
I thought consideration ought to have been given to either delaying the advice until the 
amount of compensation was actually known, or to advising Mr M that if he was going to 
transfer the work pension it would be worth waiting until it was known how much the 
compensation for the personal pension would be before doing so.
I thought this was also relevant to Geminis argument that the £800,000 transferred from 
the work pension could easily provide a Mr M secure retirement income. If that was the case, then it was also true that it wouldnt have been necessary (had consideration been 
given to delaying the advice or the transfer) for Mr M to transfer the work pension at all 
because the personal pension could/would have provided that same secure retirement 
income  without Mr M having to take any risk with his work pension.
Even without the value of the personal pension increasing, there was an inherent risk in 
Mr M transferring the work pension of his funds running out completely  due to lack of 
growth (or even loss), ongoing charges and/or withdrawals. Gemini referred in its 
recommendation to the funds lasting until Mr M reached 90 based on how much he said 
he would withdraw in the future; but it also referred to them running out by the time he 
reached 73 if losses of 35% were suffered.
Many of the issues Id outlined were detailed in the recommendation report and were 
highlighted as risks. However, Gemini was required to do more than give Mr M 
information to enable him to make an informed choice of what to do  it was also 
required to give advice/a recommendation that was suitable and in his best interests. 
I concluded that the recommendation to transfer the work pension was unsuitable 
because:
othe critical yield was unachievable
o(based on the information available at the time regarding the personal pension) 
Mr M didnt have the capacity to lose much of his work pension funds
odeath benefits, the ability to take income flexibly and the ability to take tax-free 
cash could have been met by the personal pension
ono analysis was done regarding Mr Ms wifes income needs upon his death; or 
on whether those needs could have been met by the existing pension 
arrangements
ono analysis was done in respect of how Mr M could use his personal pension to 
top up any income requirements that werent met by the work pension; or of 
how Mr M could take tax-free cash from his personal pension for his immediate 
needs
oof the implications in respect of the LTA and the LTA charge
ono consideration was given to delaying the advice or the transfer until the 
compensation had actually been paid into the personal pension
othere was a risk of Mr Ms funds running out. 
Would Mr M have transferred anyway?
The various risks were pointed out to Mr M in the recommendation report. So I thought it 
likely that Mr M decided to transfer with his eyes open ie he was aware of the risks 
involved. However, there was nothing Id seen which suggested to me that Mr M was a 
particularly sophisticated or experienced investor. The fact find recorded that he had 
some knowledge of investments and how they worked, but that was a fairly sweeping 
statement that didnt tell me much. The only actual experience that was recorded related 
to some shares  but that could mean Mr M simply bought a few shares. So I thought 
Mr M was in a position where he was wholly reliant on the advice of a professional 
advisor.
Accordingly, if the advice had been suitable  ie to not transfer as it wasnt in his best 
interests  I thought it was most likely that Mr M would have heeded that advice. I wasnt 
persuaded that his desire to leave his stressful job would have changed that.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr M asked various questions about how the compensation would be calculated and 
whether my final decision would be binding; but he didnt comment on the conclusions Id 
reached.
Gemini didnt agree with my provisional decision as, in summary, it felt the recommendation 
met Mr M's needs in circumstances where they werent being met by the work pension. It 
also said the risks of transferring were communicated to Mr M. Gemini made various points, 
which I address below as necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nature of the complaint
Gemini argued that Mr Ms complaint concerned the suitability of the investment advice he 
received, as opposed to the suitability of the advice to transfer his pension. It therefore felt I 
should focus on the complaint about the investment advice.
Gemini made the same argument previously and I responded to it in my provisional decision. 
As there are no new points for me to consider, my position remains as outlined previously, 
which was (in summary):
although Mr Ms complaint to Gemini centred on the investment strategy, we have an 
inquisitorial remit in our approach to complaints which means we arent limited to 
considering the exact complaint that was made  we can consider issues that are closely 
related to the crux of the complaint and have some bearing on it
the overall advice process includes the advice to transfer the pension and the advice on 
where/how to invest the underlying funds  they essentially go hand in hand; and Mr Ms 
overall concern is that his retirement income has been put at risk due to Geminis advice
I therefore think its appropriate for me to consider the transfer advice as part of the 
complaint.
Suitability
In response to my provisional decision Gemini said, amongst other things:
I couldnt reasonably conclude that the transfer advice was unsuitable as it allowed Mr M 
to meet his needs
it wasnt bound by the presumption of unsuitability as this was only guidance rather than 
a rule
it explained the work pension to Mr M and gave him various warnings of what he would 
be giving up and what might happen if he transferred
the advisors role was to consider Mr Ms priorities and to identify a suitable solution that 
achieved his objectives  and it did this in this case by striking a balance between the 
financial security offered by the work pension and Mr Ms circumstances/lifestyle choices 
he was looking to achieve.
Gemini went on to explain how the transfer met Mr M's stated needs eg flexibility, control 
over retirement benefits, death benefits.
There are occasions when advice to transfer from a defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme is suitable, but theyre rare  hence the presumption of unsuitability. Im aware of Geminis view that its advice allowed Mr M to meet his objectives; however, Ive already 
explained that I dont think advice is automatically suitable simply because it enables a 
consumer to meet their objectives. I dont think an argument along these lines stands up to 
scrutiny if other factors make the transfer unsuitable or not in the customers best interests. 
As Gemini has said, a balance needs to be struck between:
how realistic the objectives are given the consumers attitude to risk/capacity for loss
whether the objectives are wants rather than needs
what is being given up.
In my provisional decision I set out various areas where I felt the advice process fell down. I 
dont think Gemini has provided me with anything further in this respect which persuades me 
to change my mind  its essentially repeated its arguments that the advice was suitable and 
explained how it feels it met Mr Ms needs.
I disagree with Geminis view on the presumption of unsuitability. In my view, theres a clear 
statement by the regulator to the effect that when advising a customer about transferring 
from a defined benefit pension scheme the advisor should start by assuming it will be 
unsuitable and it will only be suitable if it can be shown to be in the customer's best interests. 
Irrespective of any technical argument about whether this is just guidance or a rule it, in 
my opinion, represents good industry practice and it should therefore be followed in order to 
treat customers fairly.
Im aware of the various pieces of information (eg the critical yield not being achievable) and 
warnings (eg about the LTA) that Gemini gave to Mr M. I referred to this in my provisional 
decision when I said I felt Mr M that had his eyes open when he decided to transfer her 
pension. However, the advisor was making a recommendation here. So he needed to do 
more than just give Mr M information and warnings  he had to provide Mr M with advice that 
was suitable and in his best interests.
Gemini repeatedly made reference to the fact that I hadnt explained how various objectives 
could otherwise have been achieved. I refer back to what I said in my provisional decision 
about our/my role  its to ultimately decide whether or not Gemini treated Mr M fairly by 
giving him suitable advice. Im not a financial advisor so I dont know what options were 
available at the time  so its not for me to explain how Mr Ms objectives could have been 
met, or whether it was even possible. I can only look at what did happen and make a 
judgement on whether the advice was suitable/in Mr Ms best interests.
Critical yield
Gemini argued this was irrelevant as Mr M hadnt raised it as an issue, it clearly told Mr M it 
was unlikely the critical yields would be achieved, and Mr M said he wasnt considering 
buying an annuity (and it hadnt received anything to suggest hed changed his mind). The 
relevance of the critical yield is something I addressed in my provisional decision. And while 
I note Geminis comments, I remain of the view that the critical yield is relevant for the 
reasons outlined above.
Risk warnings/attitude to risk
Gemini feels that the underlying investments reflected Mr Ms attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss. It also pointed to my description of Mr Ms attitude to risk as low when in fact it was 
cautious; and to Mr M painting a different view now (ie that he was extremely cautious) to the 
information he provided at the start. Ultimately, Gemini feels that I placed greater weight on 
Mr Ms unsupported version of events.I dont think the point about whether the investments reflected Mr Ms attitude to risk is 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because I concluded that the advice to 
transfer the pension was unsuitable. So had suitable advice been given, Mr M would never 
have been in the position of investing as he did.
Although a 3/10 rating might be cautious on Geminis risk scale, Im satisfied that my 
reference to Mr M having a relatively low attitude to risk was accurate. This is because, 
using everyday language, it wasnt medium (which I think is somewhere in the vicinity of 5 
or 6 out of 10) or high (which I think is somewhere in the vicinity of 8, 9, or 10 out of 10).
I also disagree that I placed greater weight on Mr Ms version of events in this respect. The 
only reference to Mr Ms attitude to risk that I made in the Findings section of my provisional 
decision was my conclusion that it was unlikely the critical yield would have been achieved. 
And this is a point Gemini agrees with.
Causation
Gemini said that Mr M had already received a transfer value from his work pension and had 
received advice from a colleague who had already transferred his pension. So it feels Mr M 
had already made the decision to transfer, which lessened the argument that he was reliant 
on the advice it gave. Gemini also felt too much emphasis had been placed on Mr M's 
mental health and the correlation with investment risk.
I accept that Mr M receiving information from his employer about his work pension is 
suggestive of the fact he was thinking about the possibility of transferring the pension. 
However, I think theres a difference between thinking about it and actually doing it having 
received advice to the effect that its unsuitable and not in your best interests. Of course, its 
possible that Mr M was going to transfer the work pension irrespective of the advice he 
received from Gemini. But I have to decide this case based on what I think is most likely in 
all the circumstances. And for the reasons outlined above, if Mr M had received suitable 
advice I think its most likely that he wouldnt have transferred his work pension.
I dont think Geminis reference to Mr Ms mental health carries any weight. I say this 
because I didnt at any stage in my provisional decision refer to Mr Ms mental health as a 
reason why I felt the advice was unsuitable. In fact, the only reference I made to Mr Ms 
health was in respect of the death benefits, and that was based on the advisor recording 
Mr Ms health status in the fact find as good.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above it remains my view that the recommendation to transfer the 
work pension was unsuitable. It also remains my view that had Mr M received suitable 
advice he most likely wouldnt have transferred his work pension.
Putting things right
There are two potential areas where Mr M might have lost out  in respect of loss due to an 
increased LTA charge, and in respect of the transferred pension itself.
Increased LTA charge
I think Gemini should pay compensation because by transferring the work pension Mr Ms 
overall pension value for LTA purposes is in the vicinity of £1.64m (the transfer value of the 
work pension plus the value of the other personal pension). And this is much higher than it 
would have been had he not transferred the work pension  which in turn means the LTA charge Mr M will be required to pay due to exceeding the LTA will also be much higher than 
it would have been.
Mr M provided me with further information on what he most likely would have done and what 
he most likely will do going forward:
In respect of what he would have done had he not transferred his work pension and he 
kept it where it was, he told me he might have stayed working for his employer but in a 
less stressful role. He also said hes still working and intends to do so for the foreseeable 
future. He thinks its likely he would have drawn from the personal pension first, before 
accessing the work pension.
In respect of the benefits he has actually drawn from his pensions so far, he told me he 
crystallised £789,856.30 in October 2018 from the work pension he transferred and took 
£197,464.07 in tax-free cash and designated £592,392.23 to a Flexi access drawdown. 
He also crystallised £240,143.70 of his other personal pension in November 2018 and 
took £60,035.92 in tax-free cash and designated £187,273.02 to a Flexi access 
drawdown. He said his records show that hes used 99.98% of his LTA.
He said he took regular income from the crystallised pots of £36,000 per annum until two 
years ago when he stopped withdrawals and then recommenced at £20,000 per annum 
to supplement income.
In respect of his future plans to take benefits from his pensions between now and his 
75th birthday, he told me hes now taking £2,500 per month gross from the crystallised 
funds and he doesnt see this changing much until circumstances change as he gets 
older.
Based on what Mr M said:
the total amount he placed in drawdown at the end of 2018 was just under £780,000
the income hes taken is £92,000 (ie £36,000 in 2019 and 2020 and £20,000 in 2021); 
and hes now taking £30,000 per annum, which hes going to do until hes 75  so for 
around 17 years in total
so that will make Mr Ms total withdrawals around £602,000 (ie £92,000 plus 17 x 
£30,000).
This means the £780,000 Mr M placed into drawdown should, on the balance of 
probabilities, be sufficient to cover his income needs until he turns 75. That in turn means its 
unlikely that Mr M will need to crystallise any more funds and, therefore, pay any LTA charge 
until he turns 75. For completeness, it also means that if Mr M hadnt transferred his work 
pension his personal pension would most likely have covered his income needs on its own.
Given the above, I think its fair to work on the basis that if Mr M hadnt transferred his work 
pension he would most likely have continued working until 65. According to Geminis 
recommendation report, the indexed deferred work pension was £25,186 per annum, which 
means it had an LTA value of £503,720 (20 x £25,186). This combined with the other 
personal pension gives an approximate total LTA value of £1.34m (compared to the £1.64m 
it is by transferring). This in turn means that Mr M is going to have to pay the LTA charge on 
an extra £300,000 when he turns 75.
I therefore think Gemini should pay Mr M £75,000 (ie 25% of £300,000) compensation in 
respect of this. This compensation is independent of any losses Mr M might have suffered 
on his pension by transferring. So it should be paid to Mr M within 30 days of the Financial Ombudsman Service confirming to Gemini that Mr M has accepted my final decision. 
Interest must be added to this compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 30 days, that 
it takes Gemini to pay Mr M.
I appreciate my calculations arent perfect because I dont know precisely what Mr M is going 
to do in the future, and what hes told me about what he likely would have done had he not 
transferred the work pension does involve a degree of hindsight. However, there are many 
variables in working out this type of redress and Im tasked with making a decision based on 
what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And on that basis I think its 
appropriate to work with what Mr M has said.
Pension transfer
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Gemini to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As above, I consider he wouldnt 
have transferred the pension and he would have worked until he was 65. Gemini must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers, based on Mr M 
retiring at 65.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Gemini may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should be paid directly to 
Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement 
which I assume to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
This compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Gemini receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Gemini 
to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Award limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Gemini to pay Mr M the compensation amounts 
as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amounts dont 
exceed £160,000, I additionally require Gemini to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above. Where the compensation amounts already exceed £160,000, I only 
require Gemini to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amounts exceed £160,000, I also recommend that 
Gemini pays Mr M the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award will be binding on Gemini. My 
recommendation wont be binding on Gemini. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
final decision and then go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Gemini Wealth Management Limited to settle the matter as 
per the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman