DRN-4245144
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the poor service he received when he sought assistance
following a breakdown under the Roadside Breakdown Cover section of his car insurance
policy.
RAC Insurance Limited is the underwriter of the European Motoring Assistance section of Mr 
Fs policy. All reference to the underwriter in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F was travelling with his wife to a port for onward travel to Europe when unfortunately his
car broke down. He called for assistance and was offered a taxi home and for his car to be
recovered to a garage. But under the policy, Mr F was entitled to a hire car due to where he
had broken down so that his travel plans could continue.
Despite Mr Fs requests for the hire car, RAC failed to acknowledge his entitlement until 16
November 2022. And Mr Fs car wasnt recovered to a garage until 15 November 2022.
In November 2022 Mr F raised his complaint with RAC a number of times.
RAC apologised for failing to provide Mr F with a hire car and said it would reimburse him for
the costs - and associated costs - to arrange one so that he and his wife could travel abroad.
Mr F organised a hire car for 22 November 2022. This was the earliest date because he
needed to complete a vehicle abroad form for the hire car company which would take a few
days to process.
However, on 19 November 2022 Mr F told RAC that his car had been repaired by the
garage. This meant Mr F no longer needed the hire car from 22 November 2022. So Mr F
travelled with his wife on their journey in his car.
RAC upheld Mr Fs complaint. It offered him a total of £500 compensation. This was £150 for
the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. RAC said its call agents had
failed to provide a hire car when Mr F was entitled to one when he broke down on 5
November 2022.
It offered £280 for eight days loss of use of a hire car at £35 a day, and £70 to cover any
charges Mr F may have had to pay for rearranging his travel. It said it would consider any
further charges if Mr F provided evidence.
Our Investigator thought RAC had done enough to resolve Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F didnt agree. In summary he said RAC hadnt done enough to put things right. He
wants RAC to pay him the equivalent costs it had agreed to pay for a hire car for 14 days
before his car was repaired. He doesnt think its fair that RAC has avoided paying this when
it provided such a poor service to him. He reiterated the timeline and the impact RACs poor
service had on him and his wife and their travel plans.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 June 2023 as I intended to uphold the complaint and to 
ask RAC to increase the compensation award to a total of £850. 
Mr F accepted my provisional decision. RAC didnt reply. So the case has been passed back 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F accepted my provisional decision. As I havent received any new information from 
RAC, my final decision is on the same lines as my provisional decision. 
Mr Fs policy says it will provide the following in the circumstances under which Mr F broke
down:
Onward travel in the UK
What is covered under section D1:
If we attend a breakdown under Section A (or C) and cannot fix the vehicle by your
planned departure date and you are within 24 hours of your planned departure date
we will arrange a hire car for the continuation of your journey for up to 14 consecutive
days.
If RAC had acted in line with the policy terms, Mr F would have been delayed for his onward
journey by around 24 hours - taking into account a reasonable period of time for RAC to
arrange a hire car. I say this because Mr F broke down in the early hours of the morning of 5
November 2022.
It took the garage four days to repair Mr Fs car. So - if RACs agent had promptly recovered
his car, the impact of the first error in failing to provide a hire car would have - on balance -
been less.
The impact of RACs failings meant Mr F and his wife lost two weeks of their four week 
holiday and missed attending planned events.
Its clear from the emails and call records provided by Mr F that he had to spend a significant
amount of time in contact with RAC to ask for what he was entitled to under the policy. Ive
no doubt that the impact of having to make calls daily to check if his car had been recovered
and to try to obtain the benefit under the policy to enable him and his wife to travel was
significant and upsetting. Mr F was told on a daily basis that his car was going to be
recovered, but it wasnt. And he was repeatedly told he wasnt entitled to a hire car, passed
between departments and given different reasons as to why.I think the goodwill gesture payment offered by RAC of £350 for loss of car hire at £35 a day
and £70 to cover charges incurred due to changing ferry travel goes some way to putting
things right. I dont agree that RAC should reimburse Mr F for a car hire cost that he didnt
incur as it was no longer needed.
But I dont think the compensation award of £150 for distress and inconvenience is enough
to reflect the impact of RACs failings on Mr F. I think it is unreasonable that Mr F wasnt
provided with the benefit he was entitled to when he broke down - and this was clearly
compounded by the fact that he was repeatedly told over a period of around ten days that he
was wrong. This caused Mr F considerable frustration and worry - all the time while losing
days of his and his wifes holiday which I think was completely avoidable.
Taking everything into account, I think a fairer compensation award in addition to the distress 
and inconvenience award of £150 should be £500, so I think RAC should pay an additional 
£350 to Mr F. This should be in addition to the £350 offered for loss of car hire and for time 
taken to rearrange his travel plans and check for any associated costs on cancellation of car 
hire. I add here that the policy says RAC will arrange car hire - but Mr F did this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require RAC Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Increase the compensation award for distress and inconvenience from £150 to £500.
This is in addition to the £350 offered for loss of car hire and for rearranging travel 
plans, so a total of £850.
RAC Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman