DRN-1637447
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that the amount required to redeem their second charge loan with 
Swift 1st Limited was too much. Theyve said compound interest was not mentioned in the 
contract and the interest rate they were charged was too high.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs Q took out a secured loan of £12,500 plus fees of approximately £1,300. 
The contractual monthly payment (CMP) was approximately £234 and the interest rate was 
approximately 16%. The administration of the loan was transferred to Swift in 2016.
The loan was due to end in 2017 but was extended at Mr and Mrs Qs request and 
redeemed over a year later, in 2018.
Arrears built up early in the loans term and a suspended possession order (SPO) was 
granted by a court in 2008. But sufficient payments were made by Mr and Mrs Q to avoid 
eviction. The SPO required Mr and Mrs Q to pay their CMP plus approximately £60 each 
month to reduce the arrears.
From 2008 to part way through 2013 payments were inconsistent, resulting in a further build-
up of arrears. The arrears peaked in 2013 at over £6,000 and then gradually reduced when 
Mr and Mrs Q established a regular payment of £300 per month. The arrears were finally 
paid-off after the term was originally due to end  in 2017. Mr and Mrs Q redeemed the loan 
in July 2018, with a payment of approximately £29,000.
In its final response letter, Swift said the amount owed was the result of late or missed 
payments and additional interest and charges added to the account. It said when payments 
were missed with no apparent plans to repay, Swift appointed solicitors and those costs 
were also added to the account. And the terms of the agreement explained how fees and 
charges would be added to the loan and how they would attract interest  compound  but 
that changed to simple interest from October 2008. Swift also said it made attempts to 
contact Mr and Mrs Q by telephone and post.
Our investigator said Swift was entitled to reflect additional work carried out and could apply 
charges in line with the loan agreement. He said Swift sent frequent correspondence 
informing Mr and Mrs Q of the account status. He thought Swift had treated Mr and Mrs Q 
fairly, given the concessions it made, and acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
loan agreement.
Mr and Mrs Q disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To reach my decision Ive considered whether the amount Mr and Mrs Q paid to redeem the 
loan looks reasonable, given all that had happened up to that point. But I havent carried out 
a calculation based on all that Mr and Mrs Q paid against the original balance and all the 
fees and interest Swift has added to the account. Thats not the role of this service.
I have also considered whether Swift communicated sufficiently with Mr and Mrs Q for them 
to be aware of what was happening to the balance. And if Mr and Mrs Q ought to have 
known from Swifts communication that the balance would not have been repaid at the end 
of the term, based on the payments they were making.
Swift objected to us considering any matters pre-dating 14 August 2013, on the basis that 
they occurred more than six years before Mr and Mrs Q complained and were therefore time 
barred. Our investigator found that this was a complaint we could consider because the 
event complained about was the amount owed when the loan was redeemed  2018. But he 
has informed Mr and Mrs Q that  in line with the rules by which were governed  we cant 
make a finding on matters pre-dating 14 August 2013.
Ive seen annual statements dating back to 2008, showing what was happening to the 
account balance. For example, the statement covering May 2013 to May 2014 shows an 
opening balance of £31,105.65 and a closing balance of £32,618.96. So, I think                  
Mr and Mrs Q would have known then the amount they still owed and that, despite making 
regular monthly payments of £300, the amount they owed wasnt reducing at that time. 
During 2014, Swift started to charge a lower, concessionary, interest rate. So that did 
increase the rate at which the arrears reduced and, in turn, the overall amount they owed 
started to reduce. But, because the statements showed the reduction, I think Mr and Mrs Q 
would have been able to see that the balance would not be fully repaid by the end of the 
term. And, from May 2016, the annual statements showed month by month the outstanding 
arrears balance and the outstanding overall balance separately. 
Interest was applied to the loan every month and was based on the outstanding balance 
every day. The contractual monthly payments agreed at the beginning of the loan are 
calculated to repay the full balance at the end of the term  based on the assumption that all 
payments are made on time. When payments are made late or not at all, the balance stops 
reducing at the rate required to repay the loan at the end of the term. And, as the balance 
remains higher for longer, more interest is added than allowed for in the original calculation 
of the CMP. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that the arrears  the payments that 
have been missed  need to be repaid, resulting in less of the CMP being used to reduce the 
balance.
In addition, Swift added charges and legal fees to the balance. Generally, we think its fair for 
a lender to apply a charge when an account is in arrears and there isnt an arrangement in 
place, or the arrangement is broken. The terms of the loan allow Swift to do this and it does 
appear that Swift has added charges in line with the loan agreement. The agreement also 
allows Swift to add legal costs when they arise and, again we generally think that its fair that 
it does.
Given the substantial effect of the missed payments on the account balance and the amount 
of interest that balance attracted, Ive thought about whether Swift should have increased the 
CMP or taken other steps to help Mr and Mrs Q, that would have reduced the arrears 
balance more quickly. So, Ive looked at Swifts contact notes and the account statements to 
get an understanding of what Mr and Mrs Q could have afforded at the time.
The account statements indicate that Mr and Mrs Qs financial difficulties were at their worst 
leading up to and including 2013 when their arrears amount peaked at approximately 
£6,000. After that, they agreed with Swift to pay £300 per month. And they managed to 
make most of those payments until they redeemed the loan in 2018.The contact notes and letters sent to Mr and Mrs Q show that the payments of £300 started 
off as reviewable arrangements to pay. I think, from the notes, it appears that Mr and Mrs Q 
were paying as much as they could during this time. I say this because the notes also refer 
to other debts, particularly the first charge mortgage with another lender. And the tone of Mr 
and Mrs Qs correspondence indicates that they would have understood that the amount 
agreed was concessionary. For example, when applying to renew the arrangement in 
August 2014, they said:
If you wish we will complete another incoming/outgoing form for you, but as I have 
said our current financial circumstances havent changed. We would really appreciate 
your help and support and would appreciate your help so far, would you please 
accept £300.00 per month as before?
Given that, from what Ive seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs Q couldve afforded more at the 
time, I dont think it would have helped if Swift had increased the CMP. So, I think Swifts 
more pragmatic approach in this case was reasonable, even though Mr and Mrs Q still had 
an amount to repay after the original term ended.
Swifts contact notes also show that a projected end of term balance was given to               
Mr and Mrs Q over the phone in March 2016. So, I think, if Mr and Mrs Qs financial situation 
had changed for the better, they could have increased their payments from then.
Compound interest
Mr and Mrs Q have said compound interest was not mentioned in the contract. Swift 
mentions compound interest in its response to Mr and Mrs Qs complaint and confirmed that 
only simple interest has been applied since October 2008. I think it may help if I explain that, 
while the contract doesnt mention compound interest by name, it does explain:
You will also have to pay interest on unpaid sums and unpaid costs, expenses and 
charges and unpaid default interest as shown in clauses A and L overleaf.
The document then goes on to outline the additional fees potentially payable (as they 
applied at the time). Clause A explains that interest will be charged on any late payment. 
Clause L says:
We will add our costs, expenses and charges to your account as soon as we have to 
pay them or decide to charge them. You should pay them at that date. If you do not, 
we will charge interest on each day of the month (at the rate that applies to the loan), 
on:
I) any costs, expenses and charges which we have added to your loan 
account and which remain unpaid on that day;
2) any interest we charged under (I) above up to the end of the previous 
month, and which remains unpaid on that day.
The rate of interest charged
Mr and Mrs Q have said that the interest rate they were charged was too high. The initial 
interest rate that they agreed to  approximately 16% - was stated in the loan agreement 
dated from 2007.Mr and Mrs Q agreed to the loan on that basis, so I dont think Swift acted 
unfairly by applying that rate to their loan.
I have looked at the agreement to consider whether the rate was linked to any other factors 
which meant it should have changed  reduced or increased. The loan agreement says:We may vary the interest rate to reflect any change to the costs of our funds (see 
clause I overleaf).
Clause I says:
We have the power to change the rate of interest we charge under this agreement to 
reflect a change in the cost of our funds. We may use that power by giving you at 
least 14 days notice in writing by first-class post. The change will apply from the date 
shown in the notice, which will also tell you why the cost of our funds has changed.
So, I can see that, under the loan agreement, Swift had the power to change the rate of 
interest in line with changes in costs, but I havent seen that it was obliged to as a result of 
changes to costs or for any other reason.
Swift did reduce the interest rate  to approximately 11% in September 2014 - initially as a 
concession to help Mr and Mrs Q, but it didnt increase the rate after that. It would appear 
from the statements that it was the reduction in the rate that led to the effective decrease in 
arrears  so actually resulting in a smaller balance at the end of the term.
Summary 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs Q feel aggrieved by the amount the Swift loan has cost 
them over and beyond its term. I can see that theyve gone through substantial financial 
difficulty and it mustve been disappointing that Swift wouldnt accept a reduced amount to 
settle the debt. But Swift wasnt obliged to accept a reduced amount and I havent seen that 
its handling of the account or its communication with Mr and Mrs Q was unfair. 
Overall, Im satisfied the loan has operated in line with the original terms - including the 
interest rate charged and that the terms of the loan explained how the interest would be 
compounded. And I think Mr and Mrs Q were made aware of the terms when they agreed to 
the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Qs complaint about Swift 1st Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman