DRN-3387493
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service hes received from Quilter Financial Services Ltd. Hes 
unhappy with the lack of rebalancing of his portfolio and with errors made when processing 
quarterly income payments. To put things right hed like full compensation for the errors, any 
lost growth, the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the errors and also the cost of 
moving to a new adviser.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go over them in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows: 
Quilter wrote to Mr W in July 2020 and explained that theyd found discrepancies 
within his General Investment Account (GIA) portfolio for the 2019/20 tax year 
Theyd found that the portfolio construction had been disrupted when a withdrawal 
had been processed on 1 May 2019 which resulted in the funds within the portfolio 
not being totally aligned to the portfolio design
The error wasnt fully rectified until 13 November 2019
They also explained that theyd made errors in selling investments from the portfolio 
to facilitate quarterly payments of £7,500. They said that theyd made the payments 
in March and May 2020 instead of April and July 2020 
They apologised and accepted liability for the errors and compared the performance 
of the portfolio between 30 April and 13 November 2019 to a model portfolio on FE 
Analytics - the FFP4 model. They found that the FFP4 model had performed better 
than his portfolio by 1.78% so they offered to pay him the difference 
They also offered compensation for the error with the quarterly payments. They did 
this by using a benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Index  to 
calculate what the portfolio would have been worth if the error hadnt occurred
They also offered a payment of £400 for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
caused him and gave him referral rights to this service 
There was a further error with the quarterly payment for October 2020  it was made 
in June instead of October (it was subsequently reinvested in September). Quilter 
offered Mr W redress based on the method theyd used for the previous errors with 
the quarterly payments and also £150 for the further distress and inconvenience 
theyd caused
Mr W subsequently asked us to look into the complaint due to the ongoing errors. 
It was considered by one of our investigators who thought the complaint should be 
upheld and that redress should be calculated as follows  
oFor the errors regarding the portfolio construction she thought the 
performance of the portfolio should be compared to the performance of a 
benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index  
and compensation paid if applicable
oFor errors regarding the first two early withdrawals (quarterly payments for 
April and July 2020), Quilter should determine which funds were encashed 
early and how many units of each fund would have been sold to generate the 
payment of £7,500. They should then calculate how many units would have 
been sold if the funds had been sold down at the correct date. If it showed 
that Mr W had been disadvantaged then Quilter should pay compensation of 
what the surplus units would have been worth at the date the funds were 
encashed when the GIA was closed (taking into account any redress 
payments already made)
oFor the error with the third early withdrawal (quarterly payment for October 
2020) she thought Quilter should determine which funds were encashed early 
to generate the £7,500 and compare this to the value those units would have 
had when the funds were reinvested. Mr W should then be compensated if 
there was any difference between the two figures 
oShe thought the amounts of £400 and £150 offered for distress and 
inconvenience caused were fair and reasonable 
Mr W partially agreed with the redress that had been suggested but also thought he 
should be compensated for fees hed incurred when hed moved his portfolio to 
another adviser due to Quilters many errors. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered the issue with the portfolio construction between April and November 
2019. Quilter have accepted that theyve made an error, so I dont need to make a finding 
about that particular point. Instead, my role is to consider if the offer of redress is fair and 
reasonable.
Quilter have accepted that Mr Ws portfolio wasnt set up correctly between 30 April and 13 
November 2019. In order to put things right, Quilter should try to put Mr W as close to the 
position he would probably now be in if the portfolio had been set up correctly. The redress 
that has been proposed compares the performance of his portfolio over the period it wasnt 
set up correctly to the performance of a suitable benchmark over the same period. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and reasonable. 
Ive then considered the issue with the quarterly payments that were made early. Again, 
Quilter have accepted that they were at fault, so Ive considered if the redress offered is fair 
and reasonable. 
The redress that has been proposed is to determine if the units that were encashed early 
would have been worth more if theyd remained invested until when they should have 
actually been sold. I think this method of redress is fair and reasonable as it ensures that Mr W hasnt lost out on any potential growth he would have seen if the units hadnt been 
encashed early. 
Ive also considered the compensation thats been offered for the distress and inconvenience 
that Mr W has suffered. From what Ive seen Quilter have made a number of errors which 
have impacted him, including repeated errors with the quarterly payments. Taking everything 
into account, I think the payments of £400 and £150 which theyve offered as compensation 
are broadly in line with what I would have awarded, and I dont think any further award is 
required. 
The main issue of disagreement seems to be around whether Quilter should compensate Mr 
W for the fees hes incurred in moving away from them. I take the points hes made about 
the poor service hes received since Quilter took over the management of the portfolio and 
why this made it necessary for him to move away from them. 
While I can award compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Quilters 
failings, I dont think this should extend to covering the costs of setting up accounts with a 
new provider. This isnt a cost Mr W had to incur as a result of Quilters errors, instead it was 
a result of his choice to cut ties with them. And while I can understand his reasons for doing 
so, I dont think I can fairly ask Quilter to compensate him for this. 
Putting things right
Redress for errors with portfolio construction
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
W as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Quilter should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
General 
Investment 
AccountNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index30 April 
202013 
November 
20208% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude.
Redress for errors with the quarterly payments
The first two quarterly payments  March and May 2020
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must: 
A - Determine the units that were encashed early to generate £7,500 on each of the 
first two occasions  26 March and 13 May 2020 
B - Determine how many units would have been sold to generate £7,500 if processed 
on the correct date - 9 April 2020 and 9 July 2020 
Compare A to B. If this shows that more units were sold because of the early 
encashment then Quilter should pay Mr W the value that the surplus units would 
have had at the date when his General Investment Account was closed (less the 
redress payments already made)
The third quarterly payment  June 2020
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must: A - Determine the units that were encashed early to generate £7,500 on 29 June 
2020 
B - Determine the value those units would have had when the funds were eventually 
reinvested 
Compare A to B. If this shows that the value of the units would have been higher 
when they were reinvested, then Quilter should pay Mr W the difference in value 
(less the redress payments already made)
Quilter should also pay Mr W £600 (£450 + £150) for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
caused him (if they havent done so already). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I think this complaint should be partially upheld. Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman