DRN-3941618
The complaint
Miss D complains that British Friendly Society Limited has turned down an incapacity claim 
she made on an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In 2017, Miss D took out a personal income protection insurance policy to cover her own 
occupation in a self-employed role. The policy provided a monthly benefit, for up to two 
years, if Miss D became unable to work due to illness or injury.
Miss D travelled abroad in late 2019. She says she last worked in her role while away in 
December 2019. In March 2020, Miss D was in a country Ill call L. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel abroad, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And on 23 March 
2020, the UK government imposed lockdown restrictions. On the same day, the FCDO 
advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK immediately. The first national lockdown 
ended in June 2020, before new lockdown restrictions were imposed between November 
2020 and March 2021. No new national stay-at-home restrictions were imposed after March 
2021. 
Miss D decided to remain in L for the duration of the Covid-19 pandemic. She said that there 
had been no cases of Covid-19 in L for the first year and that numbers of cases in the UK 
were very high. She said she couldnt afford a repatriation flight. While she was away, she 
received payments from the UK governments Self-Employed Income Support Scheme 
(SEISS) to recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on her business. She booked a return 
flight for March 2022, at which point, she said borders had reopened and the risk to her 
health had significantly subsided.
However, in February 2022, Miss D was diagnosed with a spinal condition and required 
surgery, which she underwent abroad a few weeks later. She was advised not to travel for 
around two months and therefore, flew back to the UK in May 2022. 
Upon her return to the UK, Miss D made an incapacity claim on her policy, as her spinal 
condition and surgery had left her unable to carry out her occupation. 
British Friendly turned down Miss Ds claim. It said that Miss D hadnt been working for two 
years before the start of her incapacity and she was technically unemployed at the point 
shed become incapacitated. Therefore, she hadnt been able to provide evidence that shed 
earned an income in the 12 months prior to her incapacity, in line with the policy terms. 
British Friendly did pay Miss D £56.88 as a backdated refund of premiums for the months of 
July, August and September 2022. Thats because it had offered her a premium holiday and 
backdated this to the point Miss D had made the claim. British Friendly also said that if Miss 
D wanted to cancel her policy, it would be willing to refund all of the premiums shed paid 
after March 2020.  
Miss D was unhappy with British Friendlys decision and she asked us to look into her 
complaint. She said she had received an income in the 12 months prior to her incapacity in 
the form of the SEISS payments. And she felt British Friendly should take the exceptional 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19 into account when considering her claim.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that a policyholder needed to be in employment in order for incapacity claims 
to be covered. She didnt think SEISS payments fell within the policy definition of income. 
She noted that the policy terms stated Miss D needed to tell British Friendly about a change 
in her circumstances. And as borders had been open at points between March 2020 and 
March 2022, she didnt think it was fair to say that Miss D had been entirely unable to work 
during this time. So she felt it had been fair for British Friendly to turn down Miss Ds claim.
Miss D disagreed and Ive summarised her response. She said shed contacted British 
Friendly in December 2020, ahead of leaving the country, to tell it she was travelling abroad 
for three months. She says she was told to keep paying her premiums, as her intention had 
been to return after the trip and carry on with her usual self-employment. She said it had 
been safer for her to stay in L, given the high numbers of Covid-19 in the UK. She said she 
hadnt had the funds to organise repatriation earlier than March 2022  when borders had 
reopened and health risks had fallen. She also maintained that prior to Covid-19, her income 
had been around £12,000 per year and that her SEISS payments should be treated as 
income.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss D, I think British Friendly has treated her 
fairly and Ill explain why.
Its clear that Miss D suffered from a painful and worrying spinal condition, which required 
urgent surgery. I dont doubt what a worrying time this must have been for Miss D and I do 
hope shes made a good recovery from the operation.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ds policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether British 
Friendly has treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Ds 
contract with British Friendly. The policy says:
In order to claim benefit, you must be incapacitated as set out in our definition of incapacity.
British Friendly has defined what it means by incapacity as follows:
Incapacity - This means that you are totally unable to carry out your occupation due to 
physical or mental illness or injury resulting in a complete or partial loss of income.
The contract sets out how British Friendly assesses incapacity claims. It states:
In the event of a claim we will ask to see proof of your income in the 12 months
immediately prior to your incapacity.The policy also sets out circumstances in which it wont pay benefit. These include the 
following situations:
if you are unemployed, a student, retired or a house person when incapacity
starts - we will not pay your claim if you do not have any income; or
if you become unemployed or you are made redundant without suffering from
any incapacity.
In this case, British Friendly concluded that Miss D hadnt earned any income in the 12 
months immediately before she became incapacitated, and that shed been unemployed 
when her incapacity began. So Ive gone on to consider whether I think these were fair 
conclusions for British Friendly to draw.
I should explain that I dont necessarily agree with British Friendly, or our investigator, that 
the SEISS payments Miss D received werent income. Its clear from Miss Ds tax return that 
these payments had to be declared as taxable income for the relevant tax year. The 
payments were received during 2021  in other words, during the 12 months before her 
incapacity began. So were the claim otherwise payable, I may well have found that British 
Friendly ought to take the SEISS payments into account to calculate benefit.
However, Ive also carefully thought about the timeline of events here and whether I think 
Miss D can be reasonably be considered to have been in employment at the time of her 
incapacity. And I dont think it was unfair for British Friendly to have concluded that she 
wasnt. By Miss Ds account, she had last worked in her role in December 2019  over two 
years before she became incapacitated in February 2022.
It's clear that due to the unprecedented situation which arose because of the Covid-19 
pandemic and the affects of it domestically and on international travel, Miss Ds trip to L was 
impacted. I appreciate that she says she didnt have the funds to take a repatriation flight 
earlier than she did. And Im also aware that Miss D was worried about the high level of 
Covid-19 cases in the UK versus the low numbers of cases in L at the start of the pandemic. 
So I appreciate that protecting her health was understandably very important to Miss D.
However, the UK wasnt continually in lockdown during 2020 or 2021 and international travel 
had been possible at times. After July 2021, most restrictions in the UK had ended and 
international travel was possible, although some countries decided to impose travel 
requirements and rules on travellers. Im aware that the UK government was also organising 
repatriation flights for UK citizens stranded abroad following the FCDOs advice on 23 March 
2020 for all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK immediately. This means I dont think I 
could fairly find that Miss D had had no choice but to remain in L, nor that she couldnt have 
returned to the UK and recommenced working in her role, sooner than she did. 
Theres also no evidence to indicate that Miss D was suffering from any incapacity which left 
her unable to work before February 2022  she simply hadnt been working for over two 
years. So I dont think it was unfair for British Friendly to have concluded that Miss D was 
technically unemployed at the time she became incapacitated. And therefore, I dont think it 
was unfair for British Friendly to have concluded that Miss Ds claim was specifically 
excluded from cover.
 
The contract terms also include general duty for policyholders to tell British Friendly about a 
change in a specified list of circumstances. This states:
You must inform the Society, as soon as reasonably possible (and in any event within 2 calendar months), of any of the following changes in your circumstances as these may affect 
your entitlement to benefit under the terms of your policy:
you change your address or country of residence;
you change your occupation, or the country in which you work;
you change from being employed to self-employed or vice versa;
you become unemployed, a house person or student;
you retire;
you have a decrease in your annual income of more than 10%;
your employer changes the provisions of your sick pay entitlement;
when you are claiming benefit, you are fit enough to return to work.
In my view, whilst I appreciate Miss D says her work was seasonal in nature and that she 
didnt work during the winter months, I think it wouldve been clear to her fairly soon after the 
pandemic began that she was unlikely to be returning to the UK for some time. She would 
also have been aware that she wasnt working and that therefore, her annual income was 
likely to decrease by at least 10%. So I think she ought to have told British Friendly about 
her change in circumstances.
Miss D has provided some evidence that she made contact with British Friendly in 
December 2020, albeit British Friendly has no evidence of this. But the evidence Miss D has 
provided doesnt say what her contact was about, what was discussed or agreed, or that 
British Friendly agreed to take any action. And Miss D says that she contacted it to let it 
know that shed be travelling to another country for three months, before returning to her 
self-employed role. Given the lockdown conditions which prevailed in December 2020, it 
seems unlikely that Miss D was planning to go abroad for three months at this particular 
points, especially as she was already in L. So it seems more likely that this contact related to 
her original 2019 trip and took place prior to her travelling abroad. But even if Miss D did call 
British Friendly at this point and was told to continue paying her premiums, it seems she 
indicated that she planned to return and resume her self-employed work. So any suggestion 
by British Friendly that she should continue to pay her premiums would seem to have been 
reasonable, based on the information Miss D says she gave British Friendly.
Overall, based on the policy terms and conditions, and considering the circumstances, I think 
it was fair for British Friendly to turn down Miss Ds incapacity claim. British Friendly has 
already refunded Miss D some premiums representing a premium holiday she may have 
been able to take. I find this was a fair response from British Friendly.  Its also offered to 
refund all of the premiums Miss D paid for the policy after March 2020, should she decide to 
cancel the policy. Its suggested that Miss D may wish to take advice from a financial adviser 
on this course of action. This option, which I think is a fair one, remains open to Miss D and I 
leave it to her to contact British Friendly should she wish to cancel the policy and obtain a 
refund of her post-March 2020 premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman