DRN-3244494
The complaint
Ms D complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund all the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Ms D was called by someone claiming to be from HMRC. She was told she hadnt paid the 
correct amount of tax between 2017 and 2019 and that, if she didnt pay the outstanding 
amount immediately, she would be arrested. Ms D says she was convinced the caller was 
from HMRC as they knew her name, sounded like they were calling from a call centre and 
appeared to be calling from a genuine HMRC number. So she made a series of payments 
over the next few days from a number of her accounts, including one with Metro, to account 
details given to her by the caller. Ms D made 30 payments from her Metro account, most for 
just under £1,000, totalling £27,965. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
The scam was uncovered after a few days when another bank Ms D was making payments 
from called her and explained she had been the victim of a scam. Ms D then reported the 
payments to Metro and asked that they be refunded.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. Metro 
investigated Ms Ds case and said she had made the payments without a reasonable basis 
for belief that they were genuine and so wasnt entitled to a full refund under the CRM code. 
But it did accept it could have done more to advise her about the risk of scams for the first 26 
payments, so refunded 50% of the money she lost on those payments. Ms D wasnt satisfied 
with Metros response, so brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Ms Ds complaint. They said Ms D had a reasonable basis 
of belief when making the first four payments, so Metro should refund these in full. But they 
said Ms D should bear some responsibility for the payments made after this and so Metro 
only needed to refund 50% of the remaining payments. Ms D disagreed with our investigator, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
should have reimbursed Ms D under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The CRM 
code places a level of care on Ms D too, so Ive also considered whether she met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Metro is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Ms D have a reasonable basis for belief?
Ms D was called by someone claiming to be from HMRC. She says the caller knew her 
name and details of the business she ran, and that the noise in the background of the call 
made it sound like they were calling from a call centre. And she says she asked the caller to 
verify they were calling from HMRC and was directed to a page on the UK Government 
website and told to check that the phone number showing on her phone matched the one on 
the website, which it did. Ive not seen anything to suggest Ms D was aware scammers could 
spoof phone numbers in this way.
Ms D also says she was told she had paid the incorrect amount of tax between 2017 and 
2019. And as she is self-employed and had changed accountants several times in the past 
few years due to problems shed had with them, she found this story to be plausible and 
assumed one of her previous accountants had made a mistake. She was also told the 
outstanding amount was around £1,000 plus solicitors fees and court costs, which doesnt 
seem like an unreasonable amount to have under-paid her tax by. So I think its reasonable 
that these factors all convinced her the call was legitimate.
Metro has said Ms D could have hung up and called HMRC back to check the person she 
was speaking to was legitimate. But I can understand why Ms D, who isnt familiar with 
banking processes, didnt think to do this at the time  particularly as shed checked and the 
phone number appeared to be for HMRC. The caller also put pressure on Ms D by saying 
her case had been passed to the Supreme Court and threatening her with immediate arrest 
if she didnt pay the amounts they said she owed straight away. So I dont think it would be 
fair to say Ms D lacked a reasonable basis for belief because she didnt carry out further 
checks.And so I think Ms D did have a reasonable basis of belief when she made the first four 
payments out of her account. But as the scam went on, I think Ms D should have had more 
concerns about what was happening and what she was being told by the caller.
Ms D says, after she made the initial payments, the caller kept coming back to her with 
reasons why she needed to pay more money. But I think its reasonable to expect that 
HRMC would know exactly how much it was pursuing her for  particularly if the case had 
gone to court. And, after the first few payments, Ms D had paid back significantly more than 
the around £1,000 she was initially told she owed. So I think this should have caused Ms D 
significant concern.
Ms D was also asked to make payments to different bank accounts at several different 
banks, which I wouldnt expect HRMC to ask her to do. She was called a number of times 
over several days, told the payments all had to be under £1,000 as HMRC couldnt process 
payments larger than this and that she shouldnt tell her bank the payments were for HMRC, 
which I think should all have raised concerns. The documents she was sent by the caller as 
proof of what she owed were also poorly written and had some details, such as her name, 
incorrect. And the longer the scam went on, the more time Ms D would have had to stop and 
think about what was happening, to check what shed been told or to ask someone else 
about it.
So I think as the scam went on Ms D should have had increasing concerns about what was 
happening and what she was being told. And, after shed made the first four payments, I 
think these concerns should have been significant enough that I no longer think she had a 
reasonable basis for belief when she was making the payments from this point on.
Did Metro meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Ms D had a reasonable basis for belief from the fifth payment 
onwards, she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost as a result of 
these payments if Metro didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to 
provide effective warnings.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
As the individual payments werent for particularly large amounts, I dont think Metro needed 
to provide effective warnings for the first four payments. But by the fifth payment, Ms D had 
made a series of payments within an hour and a half, all for amounts just below £1,000 and 
to two new payees. So I think Metro should have recognised this pattern of payments as 
similar to those often used in scams, have identified that Ms D was potentially at risk and 
provided effective warnings from the fifth payment onwards.
Metro has accepted that it didnt provide Ms D with an effective warning when she was 
making the first 26 payments. So its offered to refund 50% of the money she lost as a result 
of these. But its said it called Ms D before the 27th payment and gave her an effective 
warning at that point. So it didnt offer to refund any of the last four payments.
Ive listened to this call and I dont think Metro made it clear to Ms D what this type of scam 
could look like  that scammers could spoof numbers and would pose as trusted 
organisations and put pressure on people for immediate payment. And it didnt explain any 
steps she could take to avoid falling victim to this type of scam  such as hanging up and calling the organisation back. So I dont think this call Metro had with Ms D was clear or 
impactful enough to be an effective warning in these circumstances.
And as Metro accepts that no effective warning was provided to Ms D at any other time, I 
think it failed in its obligations under the CRM code to provide an effective warning in relation 
to all the payments Ms D made, from the fifth payment onwards.
Overall then, I think Ms D had a reasonable basis for belief when making the first four 
payments, but not when making the payments after that point. And I think Metro failed to 
meet its obligations under the CRM code by not providing an effective warning to Ms D from 
the fifth payment onwards. So I think the correct outcome under the CRM code is that Metro 
should refund the first four payments in full, and 50% of the remaining payments.
Should Metro have done more to protect Ms D?
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM code, when Ms D made these payments, 
Metro should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things).
As the payments Ms D was making werent for particularly large amounts, I think its 
reasonable that Metro didnt identify that she could be at risk of financial harm from fraud as 
a result of the first few payments. But after the fourth payment, Ms D had made a series of 
payments in a relatively short period of time, all for just below £1,000, and to two new 
payees. And as this kind of pattern of payments is often associated with scams, I think Metro 
should have identified at this point that Ms D could be at risk of fraud and so carried out 
further checks before processing the fifth payment.
Due to the number of payments Ms D had made in a short period of time and the total 
amount of money shed sent at this point, I think its reasonable to expect these further 
checks to have included questions about the purpose of the payments and why they were 
being sent in this kind of pattern.
Metro did call Ms D about one of the later payments and she told it the payments were 
related to her business. And I think its likely she would have given similar answers if Metro 
had called before the fifth payment too. But as she seemed evasive on the call and said 
several times that the payments were urgent and needed to be sent immediately, I dont 
think Metros questions went far enough and it should have asked further questions about 
exactly what the payments were for and why they needed to be made so soon and in this 
pattern.
Ms D hadnt been given a cover story by the caller and was only told not to mention HMRC. 
So if Metro had asked these further questions before the fifth payment, I dont think Ms D 
would have been able to provide a convincing or coherent explanation. Metro should then 
have identified that she was likely the victim of a scam and explained this to her, as the other 
bank did when it later called her and the scam was uncovered.
And so if Metro had carried out further checks before processing the fifth payment, as I think 
it should have done, the scam would have been uncovered at this point and Ms D wouldnt 
have sent any further payments as a result of the scam. So I think Metro should bear some 
responsibility for the payments Ms D made, from the fifth payment on, as a result of not 
taking sufficient steps to protect her. And as Ms D has now been without that money for a 
period of time, I think Metro should pay her compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a 
year, from the date of the payments until the date of the refund.Did Ms Ds actions contribute to her loss?
While I think Metro failed to take sufficient steps to protect Ms D, I also need to consider her 
own actions and whether she should bear some responsibility for the money she lost. And 
having done so, I think I should make a deduction to the refund to reflect this.
I accept this was a sophisticated scam and that the number spoofing and information the 
caller had about her convinced Ms D the call was genuine. But I have concerns about how 
plausible the scam was as it continued.
As I explained above, the scammer kept calling Ms D with new reasons why she needed to 
pay more money, she was asked to make payments to a number of different accounts, told 
HMRC couldnt process payments over £1,000 and asked to lie to her bank. The documents 
she was sent by the caller were poorly written and she continued making payments to the 
caller, even after Metro called her with concerns about the payments.
So in the circumstances, I think Ms D must bear some responsibility for her loss. And I think 
it would be fair to reduce the refund by 50%.
Recovery of funds
Ive also looked into whether Metro could have done more to recover Ms Ds funds once it 
was made aware of the scam. But Metros notes show it contacted the other banks the 
payments were sent to on the same day Ms D told it about the scam and has been 
communicating with them about possible recovery. So I dont think Metro could have done 
more to recover Ms Ds funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Metro Bank PLC 
to:
Refund 100% of the money Ms D lost as a result of the first four payments  for a 
total of £3,690
Pay 8% simple interest on this first refund from the date it initially rejected Ms Ds 
claim until the date of settlementRefund 50% of the money Ms D lost as a result of the remaining payments  for a 
total of £10,292.50
Pay 8% simple interest on this remaining refund from the date of the payments until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman