DRN-1322650
The complaint
Ms G complains about WDP Insurance Limiteds settlement of her mobile phone claim. My 
references to WDP include its agents.
Ms G will note that my decision is about a different business than our investigator referred to 
in his correspondence. WDP is the insurer and the correct business for me to make my 
decision about. The business our investigator referred to handles complaints on WDPs 
behalf. The change of business hasnt altered the outcome of my decision.
What happened
Ms G damaged her black mobile phone and made a claim. She says that as WDP told her a  
replacement phone in black was out of stock she accepted a sliver handset. But the phone 
was a present to her husband and when he saw the phone he didnt like the silver version.
Ms G said before she took the replacement phone from its protective case she called WDP 
to ask for a black second replacement phone but it refused. Ms G said she had a right to 
reject the silver handset under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 and WDPs refusal was 
unfair. She wants WDP to send her the same model as her original phone in black.
WDP said the policy was clear it could provide a phone of a different colour, make and 
model to settle a claim. It also said in the claim call it clearly told Ms G that the sliver handset 
it offered and she accepted would be her permanent replacement.
Our investigator said WDP had acted fairly and the right to reject under The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 didnt apply to Ms Gs circumstances. 
Ms G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said she and her husband 
thought the phone would be dark, not bright, silver. He was left with a phone he didnt like 
and WDP should provide a phone of the same colour she claimed for. She also said the 
replacement phone was a used phone and not in the phones original box.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. I need to decide whether WDP fairly and reasonably settled the 
claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
In the unlikely event we cant send you a same model replacement, well offer you a 
different make, model or colour device with comparable features and functionality.
So the policy is clear that WDP can provide a phone of a different colour to settle a claim. 
Most, if not all, general mobile insurance policies have a similar term.
WDPs call notes show that before it sent the phone to Ms G it told her the black version of 
the phone was out of stock and offered her a gold or silver handset. Ms G asked for silver 
and WDP told her that would be the permanent colour handset. Ms G asked if the black 
handset would be back in stock, WDP said it would take 3-7 days. Ms G said she would 
speak to her husband and returned to say she would have the sliver handset. WDP again 
told her the phone would be the permanent colour.
I think WDP acted reasonably in giving Ms G the choice of alternative colours and she had 
the opportunity to wait for the black version of the phone to come back in stock. I understand 
that when Ms Gs husband saw the phone he didnt like the colour. But WDP had made it 
clear that Ms Gs choice was permanent the colour. 
Im satisfied that WDP acted fairly in not changing the replacement silver handset for a black 
handset.
Ms G has referred to the right to reject under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the Act). The 
right to reject under section 20 of the Act only applies to certain contracts, for example a 
sales contract. Section 20 doesnt apply to an insurer replacing a phone to settle a claim 
under an insurance policy.
Ms Gs mentioned that she thinks the replacement phone wasnt brand new. The policy 
says:
Any replacement device you receive may be refurbished to our as new' standard 
using original equipment manufacturer parts.
So its clear that WDP can provide a refurbished phone as a replacement to settle a claim. 
Thats also a common term in many, if not most, mobile phone insurance policies. WDP 
didnt do anything wrong by sending the refurbished phone in a box that wasnt original to 
the phone.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman