DRN-3140924
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with
First Response Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W and First Response Finance on 7 
October 2021 and set out what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with First 
Response Finance that he signed in January 2020. He contacted First Response 
Finance in March 2020 about some issues with the car but said that he didnt have 
time to raise a complaint. He took the car to a garage and paid £1,559.99 for work on 
the car which included a new timing chain and clutch.
He contacted First Response Finance again in July 2020 about other issues with the 
car and again in February 2021 because of a suspension issue. It offered to cover 
the cost of a mechanical report about the faults as a goodwill gesture but said that Mr 
W would have to arrange the recovery of the car to a local garage. There was also 
regular contact between First Response Finance and Mr W about his financial 
difficulties and the payments under the agreement.
Mr W complained to First Response Finance about the issues with the car in June 
2021. It said that the car had been positioned in a way which prevented it from being 
assessed so he would be required to resolve that himself to allow a mechanic to 
inspect it. Mr W wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that, 
without any evidence to suggest otherwise, the problems appeared to be due to a 
reasonable level of wear and tear so he thought that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. He said that he appreciated that Mr W was unable to 
transport the car to an independent garage for inspection but he thought that the offer 
from First Response Finance to pay for an inspection was fair. He also said that Mr 
W had raised issues with the suspension, boot and alloy wheels over six months 
after acquiring the car so the onus was on him to prove that those issues were 
present or developing at the point of supply, or an inherent defect.
Mr W has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that 
he went to buy a second hand quality car but the under trays are damaged, its had a 
second engine, nuts and bolts were missing, parts of the engine were rusty and pipes 
had been crudely fitted and were leaking. He said that the garage had advised that 
previous work carried out on the car wasnt up to an acceptable standard. He says 
that this is not a quality car and shouldnt have been sold.
My provisional findings were as follows:
First Response Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr W was nearly nine years old, had been driven for 134,593 miles and had a price 
of £5,750. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors.
Mr W contacted First Response Finance about ten weeks after the car was supplied 
to him about some issues with the car but he said that he didnt have time to raise a 
complaint. He took the car to a garage and paid £1,559.99 for work on the car which 
included a new timing chain and clutch. The garages invoice records the cars 
mileage as 135,456 and describes in detail the issues with the car.
Mr W contacted First Response Finance in July 2020 about other issues with the car 
and again in February 2021 because of a suspension issue. It offered to cover the 
cost of a mechanical report about the faults as a goodwill gesture but said that Mr W 
would have to arrange the recovery of the car to a local garage. He didnt do so and 
complained to First Response Finance about the car in June 2021.
The car needed to be repaired in March 2020 and that was only about ten weeks 
after the car had been supplied to Mr W  and in that time hed only driven 863 miles 
in the car. I dont consider it to be reasonable to expect a car to need a new timing 
belt and clutch so soon after it was supplied to a customer and after it had only been 
driven for 863 miles. Theres not been an independent inspection of those issues but 
the garage provided detailed comments about the issues with the car. I consider it to 
be more likely than not that issues with the timing belt and clutch were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Mr W and, for that reason, that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time.
Mr W had contacted First Response Finance about issues with the car in March and 
July 2020 and February 2021 but it didnt raise a complaint until after hed written to it 
in June 2020. It had said that it would raise a complaint in March 2020 but Mr W said 
that he didnt have time to do that and didnt contact it again until July 2020.
I dont consider it to be likely that the issues with the car about which W has 
complained since March 2020 were present when the car was supplied to him. If they 
had been I consider that it would be reasonable to expect them to have been 
identified when the garage repaired the car and provided detailed comments about 
the condition of it in March 2020. The car passed an MOT test in August 2020 and 
the only advisories related to two of its tyres. Its mileage at that time was 137,569 so 
Mr W had been able to use the car to drive nearly 3,000 miles.
As the other issues developed more than six months after the car was supplied to Mr 
W, I consider that its reasonable for First Response Finance to require Mr W to 
provide evidence to show that those faults would have been present or developing 
when the car was supplied to him. I consider that its offer to pay for the cost of an 
inspection was fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require First Response 
Finance to allow Mr W to reject the car or to pay for any further repairs to be made to 
the car  but I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay £1,559.99 to Mr W 
to reimburse him for the repair costs that he incurred in March 2020. I also consider 
that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay interest on that amount.Mr W says that hes not been able to drive the car since February 2021. I sympathise 
with him for the issues that hes had with the car and the other difficulties that hes 
described. I suggest that he contacts First Response Finance about his options 
under the agreement. Its aware of the financial difficulties that hes experienced and 
its required to respond to them positively and sympathetically:
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or First Response Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Both Mr W and First Response 
Finance have accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr W and First Response Finance have accepted my provisional decision theres no 
reason for me to change the findings that are set out above or the outcome that was set out 
in my provisional; decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for First Response Finance 
to take the actions that were set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I order First Response Finance Limited to:
1. Pay £1,559.99 to Mr W to reimburse him for the repair costs that he incurred in 
March 2020.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires First Response Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. First Response Finance must give Mr W a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman