DRN-2618810
The complaint
Mr L  on behalf of his company J  complains that HDI Global SE (HDI) unfairly voided 
his professional indemnity policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known, so I will not repeat everything again here. 
In summary, Mr L is unhappy because HDI have voided his architects professional 
indemnity insurance. They say that he has breached his duty of fair presentation under the 
Insurance Act 2015 because he deliberately or recklessly failed to disclose material 
circumstances known to him in February 2020 that wouldve affected their underwriting. 
Specifically, HDI say he failed to disclose issues with a tanking system that had been 
installed on a basement contract (the basement contract) for one of his clients, as well as 
issues with the design, all of which is now the subject of court proceedings. 
HDI said that Mr Ls misrepresentation was material to their assessment of the risk, and that 
they would not have offered insurance under any terms if he had presented the true position, 
so the policy was voided.
Mr L complained that this was unfair. He says that HDIs assessment displayed a 
fundamental lack of understanding of the material facts as well as construction contracts and 
said that his brokers emails sought clarification on what he perceived to be circumstances 
that might give rise to a claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that HDI had voided Mr Ls 
policy fairly because he hadnt disclosed the circumstances regarding the tanking failures he 
had known about, despite having had concerns that this couldve led to a claim being made 
against him. Mr L disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Section 3 of the Insurance Act 2015 imposes a duty upon the policyholder to make a fair 
presentation of the risk, including every material circumstance they know or ought to know 
would influence the judgment of a prudent insurer in determining whether to offer cover.
The insurance proposal was completed by Mr L on 4 February 2020, which asked the 
following questions:
4.7  Are all ongoing projects on-time and on-budget? If No please provide full 
details on a separate sheet.
To this question, Mr L had marked No and included the following response:
One projecthas over-run and is over-budget as a result of the main contractor 
being liquidated. The delay was due to a slowing of the site works prior to liquidation 
and the time taken to appoint a replacement contractor. The increased cost was due 
to the additional cost of appointing a replacement contractor and additional works 
instructed by the clients.
Another question in the proposal asked:
5.2  After full enquiry, are any partners, principals or directors of the firm aware of 
any circumstance which might give rise to a claim? If Yes please provide full 
details. 
Mr L marked Yes to this question and included the following response:
I am currently in dispute with clients who have claimed that I underestimated the 
construction costs of a project for them and that they only proceeded on the basis of 
this estimate.
So, while Mr L disclosed the details of a separate dispute, he did not mention anything in 
relation to the tanking system issues experienced on the basement contract. Mr Ls answers 
gave the impression that the delays in this project were entirely due to the liquidation of the 
contractor, whereas at the time the proposal was completed, the project was on the second 
attempt to resolve the tanking issue, which still hadnt been resolved and had experienced at 
least three periods of significant water ingress.
HDI had amended Mr Ls quote to include cover for the basement contract but included a 
consequential loss exclusion. Several emails were sent between Mr Ls broker and the 
insurer to clarify what would and wouldnt be covered in the basement. One such email from 
Mr Ls broker on 18 February 2020 asked:
A specialist contractor was brought in for the tanking and obviously if there was a 
claim linked to the failure with the tanking, the first point of call would be this 
contractor.
What the insured is worried about is if the above happened and his client targets him 
with a claim, due to the contractor no longer being around to make the claims 
against. Even if this was defended, there is a chance that the court could decide in 
favour of the client and he would be held responsible for the remedial works. Would 
the policy cover this?
He has also queried that if there was a problem with one of the basement walls and it 
needed replacing. Would he be covered for the temporary support to the rest of the 
property whilst the new wall is being reinstated? You mentioned below not providing 
cover for damage to other properties and/or parts of that building but this would be a 
support structure and not repairing.
HDI have alleged that the following misrepresentations were made by Mr L, which were 
material to their underwriting:
He had drawn attention to the fact that the basement contract had over-run in terms 
of time and budget in his response to question 4.7, but he misled the insurer as to the 
reasons for this. While the liquidation of the contractors played a part in the delays, the primary reason appears to be the failure of the tanking system. The quantity 
surveyors report highlights the delays caused by the failure of the tanking system, 
which caused significant water ingress in January 2018, June 2018 and January 
2019, whereas the contractors did not go into liquidation until May 2018, meaning the 
cause of the delay went far beyond the liquidation of the contractors alone.
Mr Ls response to question 5.2 didnt highlight the issues with the basement contract 
that might give rise to a claim. However, in his witness statement he gave details of 
the consideration he gave to his potential liability, so as of 4 February 2020 there 
were circumstances within his knowledge that may have given rise to a claim, which 
he failed to disclose.
Mr Ls broker sought clarification of the quotes between 13 February and 
20 February 2020 about how the policy would apply to the basement contract. The 
questions referred to seepage issues and failure of the tanking system which, 
although posed as hypothetical questions, had already occurred. 
Based on the correspondence between Mr Ls broker and HDI prior to the terms being 
agreed, it would appear that a claim was at least suspected if not anticipated, and that 
consideration was given to Mr Ls potential future liability for the tanking failure. I accept its 
possible that it may have coincidentally been part of the brokers enquiries to understand the 
full extent of cover. But in this instance, the exact circumstances of the claim that later 
materialised were outlined. Indeed, the broker said that this was something Mr L was 
worried about, and I note it was only eight days after the policy was taken out that he was 
informed that court summons was being sent to him by the claimant. 
Mr L says the emails show that the circumstances of the tanking system were disclosed to 
HDI. But I do not think this can reasonably be deemed as full or adequate disclosure of the 
problems with the tanking system, as the circumstances were presented as a hypothetical 
scenario (i.e. if the above happened) rather than categorically informing the insurer that 
any such circumstances had occurred or were at risk of occurring. 
The terms of the policy were not agreed until 20 February 2020, so Im satisfied that this 
email correspondence forms part of the proposal discussions. Mr L says that he was not 
party to these emails, which I appreciate he may not have been. But they were between his 
broker and HDI, and the broker was acting on his behalf and under his instruction. And Its 
clear from the brokers emails that she was asking questions that had come from Mr L. So 
Im not persuaded he wouldnt have been aware of these discussions either. 
I accept its possible that Mr L may not have fully anticipated a claim being made. But the 
insurance proposal asks if he was aware of any circumstance that may give rise to a claim. 
This meant he had to volunteer any such circumstances he was aware of (or ought 
reasonably to have been aware of); it didnt require him to anticipate an actual claim being 
made. Indeed, an insurer will not usually rely on the policyholder to make this prediction, 
which is why they ask for any circumstances so they can assess the risk of whether a 
particular claim could materialise. 
I accept that the contractor going into liquidation no doubt played a part in the basement 
contract delays, amongst various other reasons. But it does appear that the failures of the 
tanking system materially contributed to the delays as well. For example, in his witness 
statement, Mr L describes how some months after the tanking system was installed, the 
client noticed damp patches and that the wooden floor was warped, where it subsequently 
became apparent that the tanking system had been badly installed and had to be taken out 
and reinstalled.Its clear from Mr Ls witness statement that he was aware of the issues with the tanking 
system. I appreciate that the problems associated with it were caused by the contractor 
rather than Mr L. But its apparent from the correspondence with HDI that Mr L at least 
foresaw some risk of his company potentially being held liable for these problems with the 
contractor later going into liquidation. And given that these issues had not been fully 
resolved by February 2020, I think he ought reasonably to have volunteered this information 
to the insurer. Its clear that Mr L was concerned enough about these issues to ask his 
broker to seek clarification on whether they would be covered, so Im satisfied he ought 
reasonably to have known that such concerns would also be material to the insurer, such 
that he has breached the duty of fair presentation. Indeed, section 7 of the Insurance Act 
2015 gives a non-exhaustive list of examples of things that may be material circumstances, 
which includes any particular concerns which led the insured to seek insurance cover for 
the risk. 
Section 8 of the Insurance Act 2015 sets out the remedies for breach of the duty of fair 
presentation, but states that any breach must be a qualifying breach  i.e. one that induced 
the insurer to offer cover on different terms than they otherwise would have done  which the 
Act states can be either deliberate/reckless, or careless. The remedy an insurer can take in 
response to a qualifying breach is set out in Schedule 1 of the Act and is dependent on 
whether the breach was deliberate/reckless, or careless. 
HDI has explained that they would not have offered cover under any terms had they been 
made aware of the prior and ongoing issues with the tanking system. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr Ls non-disclosure can be considered a qualifying breach in these circumstances. 
HDI say that Mr Ls non-disclosure was deliberate and or reckless, which would entitle them 
to void the policy and retain the premiums paid under Schedule 1 of the Insurance Act 2015. 
However, in this instance they have chosen to refund the premiums in any event, so I do not 
consider it necessary to determine whether the breach was deliberate or reckless, as Im 
satisfied it was careless at the very least, for reasons Ive set out above. A careless breach 
still entitles the insurer to void the policy, but obliges them to refund the premiums, which is 
the remedy HDI have already chosen.
So Im not persuaded that HDI have acted unfairly by voiding Mr Ls policy in these 
circumstances, as Im satisfied there was a careless (qualifying) breach of Mr Ls duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk, which led the insurer to offer cover they otherwise 
wouldnt have provided. 
Mr L also submits that HDI took an unreasonable amount of time to tell him (through their 
solicitors) that it would be voiding his cover and wouldnt be covering the claim. They 
instructed their solicitors to consider the claim on 19 March 2020, and it wasnt until 4 August 
2020 that an avoidance letter was issued. 
I appreciate that it took longer than expected for this decision to be made. But the 
circumstances and background of Mr Ls claim spans a timeframe of a few years, and the 
insurer had to investigate matters with various parties to determine the facts before they 
were in a position to make an informed decision. HDIs solicitors have also said that while 
they were investigating matters, they acted to protect Mr Ls position in respect of any court 
action, and Ive seen nothing to indicate that HDIs delay in telling Mr L about their decision 
to void the policy has ultimately prejudiced his position. So, while I understand it would have 
been frustrating having to wait five months to know whether he was covered, its not 
something that I consider would warrant compensation in these circumstances. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, who understandably feels strongly 
about his complaint. But Im not persuaded that HDI have done anything wrong in these 
circumstances, so I will not be asking them to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L  on behalf of 
J  to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman