DRN-4124833
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D are unhappy with the decision by Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
following a claim for storm damage on their home insurance policy.
Mr D and Mrs D also have a representative (their son) dealing with their complaint on their 
behalf. For ease of reference I have referred to Mr D throughout this final decision. 
What happened
Mr D held a home insurance policy with Gresham. The policy terms explained the policy 
would cover storm damage, but this would not include loss or damage that happens 
gradually. The general exclusions also explained the policy would not cover 8. Events 
before the cover start date. Loss, damage, injury or liability which occurred before the cover 
under this policy started. 
Mr D has explained that he visited his parents in August 2022, and noticed that there was 
significant defection to the roof and that it needed looking at urgently. Mr D has explained 
that This was something I had highlighted to [my father] earlier in the year following the 
major storms that we had suffered. Mr D contacted Gresham to register a claim for the 
damage caused to the roof, the internal bathroom, and two bedrooms.
Mr D arranged for an independent survey to be carried out by company A to inspect and 
provide a report on the cause of damage. Company As report recorded:
-It is understood that some signs of movement were first noticed after a storm and 
heavy rainfall in February this year but has recently become much more noticeable.
-The trusses appear to be compatible with BS 5268 However, no diagonal bracing 
across the hangers, struts or rafters could be seen.
- It is believed that storm wind loading on the west gable and suction on the east 
gable has caused the damage. 
-If the bracing had been provided in accordance with BS 5268- 3 then we consider 
that this structural failure would not have occurred. Truss suppliers are not normally 
responsible for installing the bracing, which is normally provided and fixed by the 
builder on site. In this case, it appears that the builder forgot to install the bracing, 
and the rest of the properties on the estate should be checked for similar oversight.
Gresham also instructed their own surveyor with company H. Company Hs report said:
We met the customers son who is representing his father at the property who 
advised us that in Feb 2022 they noticed that the TV aerial was slightly bent/ 
moved
I have taken photo images inside the loft area and you can clearly see the twisting of 
the roof trusses as the internal blockwork has leaned across and started to push all 
the trusses, I cannot see any internal lateral restraint straps from the blockwork 
across the trusses
-Upon inspection of the main roof which is in a fair condition we found that the 
damage is not consistent with an insurable peril for storm.
Company H also reported that damage to the internal areas was not consistent with storm 
but is due to a failure of materials externally.
Gresham reviewed the reports, and informed Mr D that his claim was declined. Mr D was 
unhappy with this outcome, and escalated his complaint to this service. The investigator 
found that Gresham had acted fairly in declining Mr Ds claim, as there wasnt enough 
evidence to say that storm conditions were the main cause of damage. Mr D disagreed with 
these findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim for storm damage 
This service has an established approach for considering storm damage. Wed likely say a 
business needs to do more if the answer to the following three questions is yes:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to any is no, its likely the business has acted fairly.
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
The parties are in broad agreement that storm conditions were prevalent on around the 
suggested date the damage is said to have happened. This isnt the crux of dispute for either 
party. So Ive gone on to consider the whether the damage is consistent with storm damage. 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The highest windspeed recorded for the month of February 2022 was 62 mph. Its not 
inconceivable that such high winds could cause severe structural damage (although I accept 
Gresham dont accept the evidence necessarily supports this). But the primary point of 
dispute, and Greshams reasons for declining the claim, is whether the storm conditions 
were the main cause of damage. So Ive focused my findings on this point. 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Gresham say our interpretation of policy cover, is that it was never the intention of the 
insurer to provide cover for an inherent potentially defective roof truss design, that we feel 
we can demonstrate to have been in operation since 2019. When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive considered the reports provided by the independent experts- both from Gresham and Mr 
D. Ive also considered what Gresham have explained about their own investigation of the 
condition of Mr Ds roof over a number of years, and particularly, before Mr Ds policy was 
taken out. On balance, having considered the evidence, I dont think the evidence supports 
Mr Ds view that storm conditions are the main cause of the damage being claiming for. 
Gresham have provided satellite images showing the east gable end of the property from 
November 2010, July 2019, and October 2022. 
In the image taken from November 2010, the tiling appears relatively vertical. There are little 
signs of any gaps or misalignment between the tiles. The image from July 2019 shows a 
lean in the roof. This is demonstrated by gapping between some tiles, creating a curve along 
the side of the roof. This shows the roof with more of a A-line design as the tiles curve out 
towards the bottom of the roof where it meets the guttering pipe. From review of this 
evidence, it would appear more likely than not that at the time of taking out insurance, Mr Ds 
roof was already exhibiting damage. The damage may have had little or no impact on Mr D 
at the time. But it is evident that the roof wasnt aligned the way it should be, and there was 
damage present that wasnt there in the earlier November 2010 image. 
 
Gresham have also provided an image from October 2022. This image shows the roof tiles 
all in alignment. There is no gapping, resulting in a more defined vertical line from the top 
end of the roof to the end where it meets the guttering pipe. It is clear that this image 
represents the state of the roof after repair works had been completed. This image is in stark 
contrast to the curved and misaligned tiles showing in the July 2019 image. 
Gresham say the collection of images show evidence of the roof suffering from damage prior 
to the start of the policy in September 2021. And for this reason, in accordance with the 
policy terms, the claim would not be covered. Mr Ds policy does not cover Loss, damage, 
injury or liability which occurred before the cover under this policy started. Based on the 
evidence, I cant say Gresham have acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ds claim.
Ive considered Mr Ds strong representations about the condition of the roof, and the design 
and build being compatible with regulations at the time. But this doesnt change the terms 
that must be satisfied in order for Gresham to agree to cover Mr Ds claim. The evidence Ive 
seen is more consistent with there being damage which occurred before the cover started- 
and not caused primarily by storm conditions. 
Mr D has made comments about the lack of important detail relating to the missing bracing 
in the report completed by Greshams appointed surveyor. I havent commented any further 
on this point because it makes no material difference to the outcome of Mr Ds claim, for the 
reasons Ive explained. I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr D. But insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where the damage isnt 
covered by the policy. I cant say that Gresham have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Ds claim. Because of this, I wont be asking Gresham to do anything in 
settlement of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman