DRN-3013590
The complaint
Ms H (through a representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry 
out proper affordability checks.
 
What happened
Ms H took two home collected loans from Morses between August and November 2015. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be 
found below:
loan 
numberloan amount agreement date repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)combined 
weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 07/08/2015 04/07/2017 34 £10.00
2 £400.00 13/11/2015 14/12/2020 33 £30.00
Ms H had some problems repaying her loans, and it looked like Morses agreed to a 
repayment plan in order to assist Ms H to repay what she owed. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Hs complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint. He 
said, Morses had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that Ms H 
would likely to be able to afford her loans. 
Morses appear to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators outcome and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman. But she didnt provide any further comments or evidence. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Ms H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
For loan 1 Ms H was required to pay Morses £10 per week, and loan 1 was still running 
when loan 2 was granted. So in total Ms H was committed to paying Morses £30 per week. 
Morses had to do proportionate checks to make sure Ms H was likely to be able to afford 
these repayments. Having looked at everything, I think the checks Morses did went far 
enough. 
When these loans were approved, Morses asked Ms H about her weekly income and 
expenditure. Morses has told this Service that Ms H declared had an average income of 
£153.40, expenditure of £40.00 and a disposable income of £116.75 [per week].. This left 
Ms H with sufficient disposable income to afford the weekly repayments she was committed 
to making. 
There also werent any obvious repayments problems during loan 1 (before loan 2 was 
granted) that may have prompted Morses to have carried out further, or more in-depth 
checks. So, I still think the checks Morses carried out were proportionate. 
For Ms Hs loans I think Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Ms H was 
likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent seen 
any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any financial 
problems Ms H mightve been having at the time. Or anything else that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on 
the information it obtained and approve these loans. So, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint about her loans. I appreciate Ms H will be 
disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in 
explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman