DRN-2734318
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) blocked 
her Barclaycard.
What happened
Ms C had a Barclaycard with a limit of £15,100. In July 2020, Barclaycard blocked the 
account. Ms C went on holiday in August 2020 and found that it was blocked  and so 
couldnt use the card.
Ms C complained. She had no idea the card had been blocked. Barclaycard didnt notify her. 
She therefore was inconvenienced on her holiday as she couldnt hire a car as she wanted. 
This caused added expenses of EUR360. She wanted her limit of £15,100 restored and the 
additional charges refunded.
In October 2020, Barclaycard said Ms Cs card was blocked as a fraud prevention measure 
 there had been some suspect transactions on the account. Theyd followed their 
processes. Ms C already had an existing limit of £15,100  this was unchanged. They didnt 
uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Ms C brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said Barclaycard blocked Ms Cs 
card because there were two suspicious transactions in May 2020 (£6,000) and June 2020 
(£5,000).  Barclaycard contacted Ms C at the time by text message and shed said they 
werent genuine. Barclaycard also tried to contact her by phone at the same time, but the call 
was disconnected before an agent could get through. Ms C was also sent a letter in July 
2020 to say that a block had been put on the card  and she was asked to get in touch so 
get the card verified again.
Ms C said that she didnt confirm to Barclaycard that the transactions werent genuine  they 
were hold transactions pending possible property purchases. There wasnt a way to reply to 
Barclaycards texts. She didnt get the letter in July 2020. She asked that her complaint be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Cs complaint is what happened in May and June 2020  when the suspect 
transactions occurred. Ive looked at Barclaycards records. These show that on 16 May 
2020, an authorisation of £6,000 was attempted, and another on 10 June 2020 for £5,000. 
Their records quote that one or more transactions not recognised by SMS  that is, there 
was a response by text to say they werent genuine. Ms C told us that the transactions were 
hold authorisations as she was possibly buying property. But  in my view, they were still 
authorisations which Barclaycard needed to agree to. On 3 July 2020, I can see that 
Barclaycard sent a letter to Ms C to say weve spotted some usual activity on your account 
and placed a temporary block on your card, just to be safe. We just need to check some 
details with you so we can get you up and running again.If we dont hear from youwe 
may need to permanently block all transactions on your account So, as I see it, 
Barclaycard were clear regarding what had happened, and that a block would remain on the 
account unless Ms C got in touch. Theres no record that she did so. Ms C has said she 
called Barclaycard  but couldnt get through. We asked Barclaycard about this and theyve 
searched their records for any calls  without success.
Ms C says she didnt get the letter dated July 2020  but Ive seen that it was sent to the 
address that Barclaycard hold in their records  the same one as statements were sent to. 
So, I must reasonably assume it was delivered to that address. 
I can also see that Ms C didnt use the card for regular purchases  so she wouldnt have 
experienced the effects of the block before she went abroad on holiday  in August 2020  
this was unfortunate as things couldve been resolved before then if she had tried to use the 
card in the UK. Thats no ones fault, but just a statement of fact.
I can also see that Ms Cs limit of £15,100 was unaffected and remained in place throughout 
the period in question - and up to Barclaycards final response in October 2020.
Barclaycard  like all banks  must have fraud prevention measures in place to protect 
customers. And as I see it, they acted reasonably here. Their records show that Ms C said 
the transactions werent genuine, and they wrote to her to let her know that her card was 
blocked  and what to do about it. So, in all the circumstances, I dont think Barclaycard 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.
Barclaycard told us in February 2021 that theyd be happy to unblock Ms Cs card if she 
contacted them to go through their processes  so thats what she should now do if she 
wishes to use the card, and the limit of £15,100, again.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman