DRN-3457986
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Great lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has declined her travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
Mrs B took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in September 2019. She paid the 
premium and had declared medical conditions. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. 
Mrs B booked a trip and her travel dates were from 4 March 2020 to 1 April 2020. Due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic and the travel restrictions that were being put in place, Mrs B had to cut 
her trip short and returned to the UK on 24 March 2020. In order to return earlier than initially 
planned, Mrs B incurred an additional flight cost. 
Upon her return, she submitted a claim to Great Lakes for the cost of the additional flight. It 
declined the claim and explained that Mrs B didnt have cover on her policy for what 
happened, and she also didnt take the Travel Disruption Cover which would have provided 
the cover she needed. 
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. She didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mrs B 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. She said under the policy terms and 
conditions, Mrs B had no cover for what happened in her situation. 
Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the policy documents and the terms and conditions of the policy as 
this forms the basis of her travel insurance contract with Great Lakes.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
The IPID provides a summary of certain information about a policy in a way thats easy to 
understand. On page 2 of the IPID, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
The policy terms and conditions
The Cancellation and Cutting Your Trip Short section of the policy, on page 15, sets out what 
is and what isnt covered. This says:
Cutting Short Your Trip
What is covered:
We will pay up to £500 for Basic cover (unless you have purchased the optional
£1,000/£3,000 add on) or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover (up to £15,000 may be
available, please see the table of benefits 16 for details) for your non-refundable
deposits and amounts you have paid (or you have contracted to pay), for your
travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £300 for Basic
cover and £350 for Comprehensive cover) which you do not use because of your
inability to complete the trip due to:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling
companion or any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service
or being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional,
or advisory capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring
during your trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your
presence is required by the Police in connection with such events.
Under the same section on page 15, the policy goes on to explain what isnt covered. One of 
the reasons where cover isnt provided is:
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or
amendment of the booked trip due to Government action.
And under the General Exclusions section of the policy on page 40, it says:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
25. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar
governing body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Having carefully considered the relevant policy terms and conditions, I cant see that Mrs B 
has cover in the Cancellation and Cutting Your Trip Short section of the policy for what 
happened in her situation. The trip was curtailed due to circumstances entirely outside of 
Mrs Bs control and I appreciate that. But the trip wasnt curtailed for any of the reasons 
specified on page 15 of the policy. Curtailment due to a change in the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice isnt a valid reason for a curtailment claim to be paid 
under the policy. It isnt a listed, insured event for which cover is provided under the terms of 
the policy.  Ive also considered the remaining sections of her policy but there is no cover that Mrs B 
could benefit from in the circumstances of her curtailment. There are some limited situations 
where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to 
certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, 
I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy 
terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
It's hard to say with any certainty that there was any one specific reason for Mrs Bs claim. I 
think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, the FCO advice as well as 
government restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some 
degree the curtailment of the trip. 
Mrs Bs trip was curtailed on 24 March 2020 which was the date the UK announced 
restrictions on movement and these restrictions remained in force until after Mrs B was due 
to return to the UK. 
Ive considered Mrs Bs and Great Lakes comments about Travel Disruption Cover also. 
This is an additional option that Mrs B could have taken out with her policy. I can see that 
this option wasnt taken by Mrs B at the time of taking out the policy. While I appreciate 
Mrs B has said she hadnt been explained what this additional cover entailed, the crux of the 
issue is that she didnt opt for this cover and while there might have been a possible 
successful claim had this been taken, this is with hindsight. Ultimately, the extension wasnt 
taken out and there is no cover for what happened to Mrs B under her policy as it currently 
stands.  
Overall, not only are the reasons for the curtailment not covered as a listed, insured event 
under her policy, its also likely the exclusion quoted above would also apply to the 
circumstances of her claim in any case. 
Taking everything into account, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes hasnt declined Mrs Bs claim unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont 
require Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman