DRN-2794520
The complaint
Mr H complains that he got poor service from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when trying to set 
up online banking.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr H wanted to set up online banking with HSBC. He called them on 1 July 
2020 and on 13 July 2020 to do this. The necessary security packs were sent out on 3 July 
2020 and then again in 15 July 2020.
Mr H complained. The first pack didnt arrive - even though he was told it would be sent 
within one or two days. And the second pack didnt arrive until 30 July 2020. And each time, 
he had to spend a long time on the phone  more than 30 minutes - trying to speak to 
HSBC. He felt that HSBC didnt understand his complaint and the inconvenience caused by 
the delays. And so, the compensation of £20 given by HSBC wasnt enough.
HSBC apologised  he was misinformed that the pack would be sent out within one or two 
days, when it would have been received in seven or ten days. For that, they paid 
compensation of £20. The packs were sent out on 3 July 2020 and 15 July 2020  the 
delays must have been down to postal delays.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said he could see that HSBC had 
sent the packs out when theyd said. The telephone delays were unfortunate but couldve 
been a result of the Covid pandemic. Similarly, the postal delays were also caused by this. 
So, he thought that HSBC acted fairly.
Mr H asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr H is coming from  he wanted to get access to HSBCs online services  
and thought that this would be straightforward. But unfortunately, he had to wait over 30 
minutes to get through to HSBC  and was then misinformed that the security pack (needed 
to get set up with online banking) would take only one or two days  when they shouldve 
said, more realistically, it would take seven to ten days. But then the pack didnt arrive at all. 
And he had to call again  and the pack eventually arrived on 30 July 2020  so it took him a 
month to get set up. Mr H thinks that the compensation paid of £20 isnt enough  and thinks 
£200 is more realistic.
Ive looked at what happened here. This service looks at what a bank like HSBC did in 
dealing with Mr Hs requests  and looks at whether it made any mistakes or errors  and so 
makes a judgement on whether the overall impact on him was unfair or unreasonable.
Ive seen in HSBCs records that they despatched the first pack on 3 July 2020  after Mr Hs 
first call. Ive also seen that the second pack was sent out on 15 July 2020. So  they acted 
fairly in that respect. Its unfortunate that Mr H was badly informed about the timescale for 
getting the first pack  but HSBC have recognised that and paid him £20. 
Its also unfortunate that there were problems with the postal services  so that the first pack 
didnt arrive, and the second one was delayed. But I agree with our investigator  its a fact 
that the postal services were struggling to make timely deliveries during the pandemic. This 
service takes the view that in general, once a bank, including HSBC, has despatched an 
item (as happened here), then it cant be held responsible for its delivery  once its been 
passed to the Royal Mail.
Its also a fact that all banks and other large companies were struggling to answer calls at 
the time  due to staff illnesses and the need to organise people to work at home. So  while 
the delays experienced by Mr H were frustrating, I cant find that HSBC were actually at fault.
So  I can see that the sequence of events was frustrating for Mr H, but I find that HSBC 
didnt make any errors and did act reasonably in what they did  so, while Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision, I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman