DRN-2110497
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) require her to sign a 
retainer with a solicitor holding her liable for their legal fees. She believes these costs should 
be met by her legal expenses policy. 
What happened
Mrs E wanted to make a claim on her policy to cover the legal costs of pursuing a dispute 
with her neighbor regarding the party wall act. RSA accepted the claim and appointed 
solicitors to act. 
The solicitors sent their terms of business and a retainer to Mrs E for her to sign. This sets 
out the solicitors hourly rates and states that Mrs E will be liable for any costs incurred on 
her behalf. Mrs E raised concerns that these costs should be met by the policy. 
RSA has advised Mrs E that the policy will cover the costs but she would need to sign the 
retainer with the solicitors in order for them to act for her. As Mrs E wasnt comfortable with 
signing the retainer, she complained.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the solicitors covering letter explains 
that as Mrs Es claim is being funded by a legal expenses policy, she wont be liable for the 
fees. Mrs E has also been assured of this verbally by both RSA and the solicitors. She said it 
was usual for a solicitor to require a signed retainer in order to establish a solicitor/client 
relationship. It would also enable them to recover their fees if successful in court.
Mrs E didnt accept what our investigator said, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into account the policy terms and 
standard industry practice. Mrs Es policy provides cover for legal costs. In order for the 
solicitors to act for Mrs E, she will need to sign a retainer to be their client. This is not 
unusual; its standard practice and is required regardless of how a case is funded. The 
retainer will usually set out the solicitors terms of business and their hourly rates. This is 
because RSA doesnt instruct the solicitors  they act for Mrs E. What RSA does is 
underwrite the costs on Mrs Es behalf.
I can see that the solicitors covering letter to Mrs E which enclosed their retainer explains 
that Mrs Es claim is being funded by way of a legal expenses insurance policy. It says:
Funding your claim
You have the benefit of a legal expenses insurance policy for legal costs. However, I am 
obliged under the Solicitors' Code of Conduct to give you an estimate of the likely overall 
cost of our services. Please note that whilst you remain responsible for our costs, they will 
be paid by your legal expenses insurer under the terms of your policy and the terms of the 
Collective Conditional Fee Agreement (CCFA) we have with them, if they are not recovered 
from your opponent.
Like all other legal expenses insurers, RSA has arrangements with solicitors to take on 
claims under the policy. And it will pay the solicitors directly, normally at discounted rates. 
But as Ive explained, the solicitors dont act for RSA, they act for their client  in this case, 
Mrs E. So they would still have to provide her with a client engagement letter setting out 
what their charges are - and what they could try to recover from the other party if the case is 
won. 
As this is a requirement under the solicitors code of conduct, its not in RSAs control to say 
Mrs E doesnt have to sign it. Mrs E expressed concern that she would have to pay the costs 
up front and then claim them back, but that isnt the case. Im satisfied she has been 
provided with reassurance that she is not being held liable for the solicitors legal costs. And 
it has been explained to her why she needs to sign the retainer. So if she wants to pursue 
her claim, shell need to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman