DRN-4250790
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M complain that Starling Bank Limited wont refund money they paid for 
replacement windows and doors which they didnt receive from the merchant.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr B and Miss M were seeking replacement windows and doors. They obtained 
a quote from a company (which I will refer to as W). 
Mr B and Miss M explain they carried out research into W including checking Companies 
House and reading reviews. Those reviews mentioned delays but didnt cause them any 
particular concerns about Ws legitimacy.
They decided to proceed and paid the initial 50% deposit  an amount of £8,580. This was 
sent by Faster Payments bank transfer from Mr B and Miss Ms joint Starling account. 
W visited their property and measured up. Mr B and Miss M were provided with design 
drawings. At that point, everything seemed to be progressing as expected. However, they 
were subsequently unable to contact W. Mr B and Miss M later learned that W might have 
entered administration.
They contacted Starling about the matter in January 2022, asking if Starling could help 
recover their payment. Starling advised contacting Ws administrator. 
However, Mr B and Miss M began to suspect that W hadnt been operating legitimately and 
had in fact defrauded them. A different window installer told them the measurements and 
drawings were faulty and extremely inaccurate. He thought this meant W had never intended 
to fulfil the contract.
So, Mr B and Miss M reported the matter to Starling as a scam. However, Starling said it 
believed they had a civil dispute with W. In other words, Starling didnt consider Mr B and 
Miss M had been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam). Starling 
couldnt help and didnt consider it was liable to refund Mr B and Miss M.
Mr B and Miss M didnt accept this. Theyd reported the matter to Action Fraud and said it 
told them a civil dispute would only apply where goods or services were provided (at least in 
part). Theyd not received any goods and so this was fraud. They continued to believe this 
had been a scam and disputed that W had been operating legitimately.
Mr B and Miss M referred their complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
what had happened, but she didnt uphold their complaint. The Investigator sympathised with 
the situation Mr B and Miss M now found themselves in but agreed with Starling that the 
matter was a civil dispute rather than an APP scam. The information shed gathered from 
relevant third parties indicated this had been a legitimate business that had encountered 
trouble following the pandemic and that it had failed, rather than having been fraudulent. She 
therefore thought the bank had no obligation to provide Mr B and Miss M with a refund. 
Mr B and Miss M didnt accept this. As no agreement could be reached, I have been asked 
to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened here. Mr B and Miss M have paid a considerable sum 
and received nothing in return. 
It seems hard to argue other than that W has breached its contract with Mr B and Miss M. 
They have a claim against that business as a creditor, and I understand that they have 
already registered this claim with the liquidator. But Im not deciding a dispute between them 
and W  I dont have any power to look into a complaint about W. My role is limited to 
deciding Mr B and Miss Ms dispute with their bank. 
Of course, Starling didnt contract with Mr B and Miss M for the works, and I cant fairly hold 
the bank responsible for any breach of contract or other failings on Ws part. As a starting 
point in law, Mr B and Miss M are responsible for the payment they instructed Starling to 
make for them. Unfortunately, theres little protection available for bank transfer payments, 
as this was. The protections that would apply against breach of contract or 
misrepresentation if Mr B and Miss M had paid by card arent available. 
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
does provide some protection to victims of APP scams where the payment is made by bank 
transfer. But it only applies to APP scams, and it includes a specific exclusion for: private 
civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, 
or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
In other words, failure to provide goods or services isnt sufficient for the code to apply. 
Neither would a defective service, such as significant measurement errors or faults in the 
plans. In order to find that Starling was somehow liable to Mr B and Miss M under the CRM 
Code, Id need to find that the evidence was strong enough to show this had been a 
deliberate, criminal scam from the outset rather than it being such a private civil dispute 
between them and W.
The question I need to address then is whether the available evidence demonstrates W was 
most likely acting fraudulently when Mr B and Miss M made this payment - deliberately 
setting out to deceive them into making the payments whilst never having intended to supply 
or fit the windows and doors as agreed. That also requires that I can exclude, on the balance 
of probabilities, the alternative possibility that this is simply a matter of W breaching its 
legitimate contract with Mr B and Miss M.
Simply put, that means deciding whether the available evidence shows it is most likely that 
W set out to defraud Mr B and Miss M with criminal intent. That is a high bar to meet.
In their submissions, Mr B and Miss M have provided evidence and documents in support of 
their claim that W was a fraudulent enterprise. 
Aside from faulty measurements and drawings, it seems likely no other work was completed. 
Mr B and Miss M have also obtained written comments from the director of the window 
company they contracted with to carry out the works after Ws failure to do so. He believes W had no intention of providing products or installation based on sizes and 
incorrect format I was shown and believe to be a fraudulent sale. 
Ive taken account of these points and the other arguments and evidence submitted by Mr B 
and Miss M.
But I have also considered the other evidence available to me, including that gathered by our 
Investigator. W appears to have been trading for around 20 years. It seems unlikely to me 
that a firm such as this could have operated continuously for that length of time if it had been 
consistently failing to fulfil its agreements. That is perhaps reflected in the lack of concerns 
Mr B and Miss Ms research revealed  if the feedback about W theyd seen had suggested 
this was a fraudulent firm I doubt theyd have gone ahead. 
After W entered administration, I understand that some concerns about the failure and 
potential fraud were referred to the Police and Action Fraud. But I am not aware that either is 
pursuing a live investigation.
During her investigation, the Investigator obtained evidence showing the usage of the 
account held by W at the recipient bank. While I cannot share that evidence here, I have 
reviewed it and find it appears more consistent with legitimate operation than fraud. This 
interpretation is supported by the opinion of the insolvency practitioner that W was likely 
operating legitimately but encountered financial difficulties which finally led to the failure of 
the company.
All considered I simply cant safely conclude that W took Mr B and Miss Ms money without 
ever having the intention of carrying out any of the work. The evidence available to me 
simply isnt enough to support such a finding. It isnt inconsistent with this having been a 
legitimate business that failed. So, I dont think Starling was at fault in reaching the outcome 
it did.
And while Mr B and Miss M point out that some customers with other banks have been 
refunded, I cant fairly require Starling to do so unless I find it was somehow required to.
I appreciate how frustrating and disappointing this answer will be. Mr B and Miss M have lost 
a lot of money as a result of Ws failure to complete the agreed work. But I cant exclude the 
possibility that W entered the agreement in good faith, intending to fulfil the work (as it 
appears to have done previously for other customers) and then was unable fulfil the 
agreement due to the unanticipated failure of the business or some other reason. The 
evidence doesnt allow me to conclude its more likely than these alternative possibilities 
that W essentially intended to steal Mr B and Miss Ms money from the outset and never had 
any intention of fulfilling the arrangement in full or in part. 
That means that I cant fairly hold Starling responsible for the loss suffered here by Mr B and 
Miss M. In saying that I dont underestimate the impact this whole matter has had on them  
I am sorry they appear to have lost a significant sum through no fault of their own. But its 
simply the case that I cant fairly tell Starling to pay them the money theyve lost, because I 
dont think Starling has treated them unfairly or was otherwise at fault here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman