DRN-3859502
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money she lost 
in a scam.
What happened
Miss M says that she saw a video about investing on a video sharing app and contacted the 
individual who posted it via a messaging app to express an interest in investing. She asked 
how the investment worked and was told that most clients give a budget and that if she paid 
by a certain time, she could be put in for a pay out the following week.
Miss M didnt ask what she was investing in but says that the trader posted things about 
cryptocurrency trading, so she assumed it was that. The trader also posted positive reviews. 
Miss M says she contacted some people about the reviews but didnt receive a reply. Miss M 
decided to go ahead and invest £500 and was provided with account details. After a week 
she contacted the trader to ask about her profit and was advised that her funds could be 
released once she had paid a liquidation fee of £300. Miss M checked how much profit shed 
made (£1,885.33) and that her profit would be released if she paid the fee and was assured 
that it would, so she made the payment to the same account. 
Miss M didnt receive any funds and contacted the seller, who initially told her she was 
spending time with her daughter and then stopped responding altogether. Miss M reported 
the scam to Barclays on 1 July 2022. Barclays considered Miss Ms claim under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) and reimbursed 50% of her loss. 
Barclays also contacted the receiving bank but was told no funds remained. 
Miss M was unhappy with Barclays response and brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a genuine 
investment. The investigator also said that Barclays couldnt reasonably be expected to 
prevent the payments from being made as they werent significantly unusual. Finally, the 
investigator felt that Barclays did what it could to recover Miss Ms funds. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Miss M under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss M was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for her to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Under the CRM 
Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
M and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Barclays has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss M made are enough to support its position that it can rely 
on an exception to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think she had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person she transacted with was legitimate or that the 
investment she was making was genuine. I should say that its the combination of these 
factors that lead me to believe Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief and that 
none of them can be considered alone. 
- Miss M found out about the investment on a video sharing app and communicated 
via a messaging app. I wouldnt expect a genuine trader to advertise in this way or to 
use this method of communication.
- Miss M had no idea what she was investing in or how the investment worked. She 
also had no reason to believe the scammer was a legitimate trader and didnt ask 
any questions to satisfy herself this was the case. She has said she assumed she 
was investing in cryptocurrency, but the scammer didnt say this or explain how 
profits could be made. All the scammer said was that Miss M should give her a 
budget, which she did, and the only question Miss M asked the scammer was when 
shed receive her profit.
- Miss M didnt receive any documentation in respect of the investment. She wasnt 
given any terms and conditions/contract and no information about her was gathered. 
I think these factors should have been red flags that something wasnt right. 
- Miss M decided to invest after seeing screenshots and reviews provided to her by the 
scammer. She didnt complete any checks herself or verify the claims. Such reviews 
are easy to fake (as was the case here). Im aware that Miss M said she contacted 
people on the messaging app, but I havent been provided with any evidence to show 
she received any responses. In light of my other concerns, I dont consider Miss M 
went far enough. 
- Miss M was asked to pay the account of an unknown person who wasnt the trader 
that she was communicating with her. I cant see that she queried this with the 
scammer or took any steps to understand why she was paying an unknown third 
party. The scammer posted something with the name of a company on it (but no 
evidence she was associated with that company). Genuine traders work for a 
company and payments would go through that company. So I think Miss M ought 
reasonably to have had concerns. 
- Miss M has said she was approached by two other traders before she fell victim to 
this scam. She completed some research and chose not to go ahead with these 
traders as she thought they were scammers. So I consider Miss M was aware of the 
possibility of being scammed and should have taken additional steps before 
transferring funds.
- Miss M wasnt provided with a plausible reason for the need to pay an additional £300. She paid this additional amount after being told her original investment and 
profit had reached £1,885.33 within a week, which also wasnt realistic.
- When making the payments Miss M chose the friends and family payment reason 
rather than an investment. This meant that Barclays couldnt provide her with a 
warning that was specific to investment scams. 
Overall, I dont consider Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
genuine investment through a genuine trader.
Should Barclays have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss M? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide Effective Warnings to their 
customers. In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think Barclays shouldve 
provided Miss M with effective warnings when she made the payments or taken any other 
steps to prevent them from being made. Although I appreciate the loss of the funds have had 
a significant impact on Miss M, the amount of each transfer was relatively small and didnt 
cause concern in other ways. In the circumstances, I wouldnt make an award to Miss M. 
Barclays has already refunded £400 to Miss M though 
Recovery
Barclays has an obligation under the CRM Code to contact the bank that received scam 
funds to try to recover in them. In this case, I can see that Barclays contacted the receiving 
bank promptly after the scam was reported but was advised that no funds remained to return 
to Miss M. So I dont consider Barclays could have done anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman