DRN-3249395
The complaint
Mr P has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
invest in a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG) and a discretionary 
managed portfolio. Mr P is represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In early 2014 Mr P was turning age 45 and says he had one pension with Wesleyan, but no 
other significant pensions or savings (other than from contracting out of SERPS). He was not 
a sophisticated investor. He was working as a manager on £45,000 per year. 
His CMC says he was cold called and encouraged by an introducer to transfer to the SSAS 
to get better returns than his existing pension and then eventually access all the proceeds as 
a lump sum at retirement. It says he was at most a low to medium risk investor. We know 
that CMIM had signed an introducer agreement with an unregulated firm called Your Choice 
Pensions (YCP) which also worked with a number of other sister companies.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Ps pension, on 13 January 2014 a new 
employing company was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. On 20 
January 2014 he signed terms of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of 
advice in relation to TRG for the purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
Mr P also signed an undated indicative investment form at around this time, setting out that 
he was looking to invest 75% of his pension in TRG and 25% in CMIMs discretionary fund 
management (DFM) service  with the remainder left in cash. 
On 24 January 2014 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Ps new employer with 
him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. There was an 
annual fee of £500+VAT to operate the SSAS. 
Mr P hasnt retained his copy of the written advice from CMIM  a so-called dear Trustee 
letter, or any covering letter enclosing that advice. From other cases we know that investors 
who were brought to CMIM through this introductory method and who ended up investing 
part of their SSAS in CMIMs DFM service (like Mr P) each received one of these letters. 
There is other corroborative evidence on this case which Ill discuss later, suggesting CMIM 
advised Mr P by this route.
Typically YCP wrote to these individuals with a covering letter stating the following:
Please find enclosed written advice on your chosen investment into commercial property in Cape 
Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited under 
your instruction for your consideration.
The enclosed dear trustee letter wouldnt have referred to Mr P by name and mentions that 
the business has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with 
advice that it understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and 
furthermore, the TRG investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. 
CMIM went on to summarise its research and view on the suitability of the Cape Verde 
investment, some of which Ive quoted below (with my emphasis). The first three 
paragraphs below were extracted without much alteration from TRGs own key features 
document about the risks of the investment:
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed. 
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort. You may wish to take 
independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should be 
held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification
carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities 
and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you 
seek independent financial advice
The letter went on to propose CMIMs MVA Balanced Portfolio (so-called because it was 
balanced between shares and bonds) to provide the suggested diversification into other, 
lower risk investments. 
On 25 February 2014 CGL requested the transfer of Mr Ps Wesleyan pension policy using 
forms signed by Mr P that day, and on 6 March CGL received a transfer of £63,252 from 
Wesleyan. Subsequently on 10 March Mr P signed a letter confirming that his instructions to 
invest in TRG and CMIM were based on its written advice  i.e. the dear trustee letter. His 
instruction read as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in 
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately 
qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the 
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of:
( a ) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
( b ) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
On 14 March £41,850 was invested into TRG, plus £19,302 shortly afterwards into CMIMs 
DFM arrangement.
My understanding is that discounts were offered on the TRG purchase, paid back to 
investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa until the resort opened. This correlates with Mr P 
receiving around £244 per month initially, but this became closer to the quarterly figure from 
August 2016 and then dropped further to when it was last known to be £191 in March 2019. 
Evidently the resort was unprofitable. 
In February 2015 the DFM arrangement was sold for £19,957 and transferred to Avalon 
investments  to be managed by Organic Investment Management. Subsequent balances 
from the SSAS bank account were invested with Organic. This was specified to have a 
medium lower risk growth objective.
The UK limited company via which Mr P invested into TRG had entered into separate 
contracts with developers to build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it. Initially 
this was to be the Llana Beach Hotel, but this was subsequently revised in November 2014 
by agreement with Mr P to the Dunas Beach Resort.
Mr Ps CMC raised the complained in July 2019 but CMIM didnt initially respond until after it 
had been referred to the ombudsman service. A number of similar complaints have been 
made against CMIM and it has set out a common position on all of the complaints  which Ill 
set out later in this background.
As part of his investigation the investigator spoke to Mr P, who recalled that he had been 
referred to CMIMs introducer by another CMC processing a PPI claim. He was promised 
during a four hour meeting (with that introducer) that he could expect £500,000 from his 
£40,000 investment in TRG. That was the only incentive for him to invest  no other perks 
were offered.
In summary, our investigator took the view that CMIM should have advised Mr P not to 
invest in TRG: firstly because it was unsuitable for him as an unsophisticated investor, but 
secondly because to do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions.
The key points of CMIMs position are as follows:Much of CMIMs data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. CMIMs only financial benefit 
arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It 
attended numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky and only appropriate when considered as part of a 
diverse portfolio where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its DFM 
services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk portfolio of 
Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr P or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to DFM (which did not happen in this 
case). To the best of its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter appeared to be very close to the 
Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was placed on this 
letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they also had their 
own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr P did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr P were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr P to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr P to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Ps loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Ps losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr P to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address later.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and investors. 
It believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr P to invest in TRG?
I should start by saying Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of 
advising on investments. This is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (amongst other things) as advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS: Mr P would be participating in a (named) pooled property scheme 
where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole.
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Ps investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that CMIM wasnt, at least, carrying out the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it attended numerous 
preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed documentation regarding the 
investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and as to risk. However, advice 
given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught by chapter 9 of COBS  
the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And its dear Trustee letter reminds Mr P that it hadnt 
assessed those circumstances.
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
So, the part of the definition before the word or indicates its possible to make a personal 
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presented 
in such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as 
being suitable for them in particular. But if I approach this from Mr Ps position I have to take 
into account that CMIM told him it wasnt making a personal recommendation; he knew he 
hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it.
On balance, I think Mr P ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter he would have 
received was a prompt for him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being 
described in that letter as an appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: 
was he cautious or more tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the 
expected duration of the investment? If Mr P felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs 
advice would have carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, 
he had personally contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself 
mean it was truly a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by 
it separately encouraging him to seek further independent advice. If it thought he was better
off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised him at all. And its open to me to 
consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at 
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9.
Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note that as TRG was a 
UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr P, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr P to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr P had already decided to invest in TRG  he had 
completed an indicative investment form  so the dear Trustee letter would not have been 
pivotal in his thinking. I dont necessarily agree with that, but more importantly I dont think 
its relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further 
at PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances at the time the communication was made:
( 1 ) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
( 2 ) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients  and I count Mr P in that 
category  to draw. I say this in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term: here Mr P 
was at a relatively young age in the retirement context;
- CMIM suggesting it was possible to mitigate the risks of TRG by diversifying: it 
recommended a DFM portfolio to achieve this;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr P to take his own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed
him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if he wasnt cautious or needing 
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way: CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment.
It would have been apparent to CMIM at the time that third parties had quite a lot of influence 
over what the trustees did; this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely 
to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in 
persuading Mr P to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how 
much attention Mr P paid to its advice, he signed an instruction declaring that he had regard 
for it in making his investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise this is what would follow then it 
should have done, given it said it was giving its advice for the purposes of that Act.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Mr P was simply signing where a third party told him 
shouldnt have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs advice an 
inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the 
view that both the introducing firm and CGL were inducing Mr P to invest because of vested 
interests, yet it was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation 
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in 
certain specified (and limited) circumstances. This underlines that advising on (and not just 
personally recommending) an investment can also amount to a promotion: the very nature of 
promotion means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though 
YCP or its sister companies may also have promoted it originally, and even though didnt 
make a personal recommendation).
Did Mr P qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion? 
Mr P is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since.
This leaves the range of exemptions set out at COBS. Based on the timing of when Mr P 
signed CMIMs terms of business (and all other steps to establish his SSAS) I think he would 
have received the dear Trustee letter after 1 January 2014. From this point there was an 
exemption at COBS 4.12.1R for solicited advice, but this allowed a promotion where the 
communication met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for 
advice on the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other 
communication from the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to 
influence the client in relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 essentially said that anyone with a business relationship with the firm including an 
introducer or appointed representative, is connected to it. So its clear that the introducer 
agreement with CMIM by which YCP and its sister companies procured Mr Ps business 
would always have made this exclusion unavailable too. I also cant see that any of the other 
exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R were available either  not least because Mr P doesnt 
appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated investor and didnt have any of the 
other professions or roles specified. 
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr P, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to
Mr P previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr P paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Mr P to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr P thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr P would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice.
Mr P was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I 
think he the most he would have reasonably understood was that he was getting an 
appropriately qualified opinion on whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in 
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that 
Mr P was misled if CMIM now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. 
And at a fundamental level, I dont think Mr Ps inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear 
Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mr P) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr P to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Ps investment 
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the 
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments.
In any event, its just as difficult to see how it was possible for advice stated in the terms of 
business to enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of PA95 
not to be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small 
size, most of the regulations in the secondary Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) 
Regulations 2005 dont cover Mr Ps SSAS. But regulation 7 does, and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in the investment instruction CGL required Mr P to sign. 
And I cant fairly say it was possible for him to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, 
and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS, without a 
recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of 
that SSAS.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle2);
- take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if 
the introducer remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it 
later heard from them because theyd signed up for its DFM service. That calls into question 
whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as 
it refers to the care CMIM should take in formulating advice (whether thats a personal 
recommendation or not).
In observance of these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM 
could reasonably take:
1 . Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr P at all; or
2 . Agree to accept introductions through YCP, but proceed on a basis which was fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr P, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Note that if the recommendation was not to invest in TRG, this would not amount 
to promotion and so the restrictions on promotion wouldnt be breached.
- Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr P directly, rather than supplying it via 
third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mr P, 
if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was in 
favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or indicated it would make 
direct recommendations against investing, I accept its possible that those parties would 
have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome.
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr P was required to take 
couldnt just be given by any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
( a ) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given by 
a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of that 
Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
( b ) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected; and the consequences giving advice in favour of 
investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising Mr P at all, but it chose to give 
advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of the proper 
personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr P to satisfy the regulators 
expectations and those reasonably implied by PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It 
ought to have known that an investment in UCIS taking up a substantial portion of the 
individuals pension provision was plainly unsuitable for an inexperienced investor. It should 
have realised that Mr P could ill afford to take this much risk, given the little other savings he 
had. In my view Mr P is unlikely to have had the experience to appreciate this for himself.
There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property 
development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks
 to counter that presumption of unsuitability. Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS 
being introduced to Mr P by other parties was in order to invest in TRG. And I think its likely 
that Mr P received CMIMs dear Trustee letter before his Wesleyan pension was transferred 
to the SSAS, or at the very least before either the TRG or DFM investment were made. So I 
need to consider how Mr P would have acted, if CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG.
I find it unlikely that the other parties involved would have been interested in the SSAS being 
used to invest other than in TRG, which they appear to have had some incentive to market 
to Mr P. To secure this investment they wanted advice in favour of it, to demonstrate the 
trustee was mindful of the requirements of PA95. And as I said above, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that other regulated firms should also have advised against TRG.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme 
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such 
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It could also 
have been flagged up in the checks ceding pension schemes was carrying out to mitigate 
against pension liberation/scams.
Ive taken into account that Mr P didnt instigate the advice here and hadnt built up a long- 
standing relationship with the introducing agent. He didnt even meet CMIM. As CMIM itself 
realises, its name was brought on board to legitimise Mr Ps investment in TRG. But 
CMIMs advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It should have made very 
clear that it was unsuitable for him.
Once that opinion had been given I cant safely say it could easily have been undone by 
any attempts to refer Mr P to other advisers. Im satisfied the more likely outcome is that any 
further attempts to secure his TRG investment would have failed in the light of CMIMs 
proper advice that it was not a suitable investment for Mr Ps SSAS. 
What would Mr P have done with his DFM funds?
I recently asked the investigator to write to remind CMIM that if I uphold this complaint Im 
likely to take the view that CMIM's involvement in recommending TRG was central to why it 
was also used (at least initially) for the DFM part of the portfolio. The DFM recommendation 
was the balancing component to the TRG advice. So, if I decide to uphold the complaint, the 
DFM funds would form part of the recommendations for redress. And Im satisfied here that 
CMIM advising against TRG would have given Mr P a reason not to give (or to abort) his 
instruction to Wesleyan to transfer all of the funds, if he was still in time to do so. 
When he spoke to our investigator Mr P mentioned that his Wesleyan plan was not doing 
much, but later in the discussion he said the introducer advised him to move it because 
Wesleyan was not acting on his behalf and not reinvesting the income it produced. There is 
no evidence I can see that this was actually the case. I consider therefore that Mr Ps 
unfavourable opinion of Wesleyan was for a large part fostered by the introducer: he hadnt 
gone looking for advice to transfer his pension before his PPI CMC prompted him.
So on balance, I think Mr P would have been willing to remain with (or go back to) Wesleyan 
when he learned CMIMs advice conflicted with the introducers view; as it should have done. 
But owing to the uncertainty over when precisely the dear Trustee letter was delivered I 
cant be entirely sure that Wesleyan would have taken the funds back if theyd already been 
transferred. So Mr P may have been stuck in the position where he needed advice either 
from CMIM or another firm he could trust, on what he should do with the proceeds of the 
transfer.
CMIM already recommended a DFM arrangement with some of Mr Ps funds. But as Ive 
said, that was the balancing component as part of a wider recommendation. So I cant safely 
conclude that, even if Mr P took further advice from CMIM, exactly the same type of DFM 
mandate could (or should) have been used on the entire SSAS. It was also open to CMIM to 
identify (as it has now argued) that the SSAS wasnt necessary for Mr P at all; such that he should switch back to a more conventional personal arrangement of the sort he had 
previously held with Wesleyan. Clearly once the TRG investment was off the table it is a 
matter of some speculation what then would have happened.
At this point I should acknowledge that Mr Ps CMC said at the outset that it was not 
complaining about the DFM aspect: it said this was only on the understanding that the DFM 
assets appeared to still be liquid and encashable, unlike TRG. However its position here is 
inconsistent as it was also arguing for Mr P to be returned to the position where he hadnt 
transferred from Wesleyan at all. Im required to arrive at a fair and reasonable conclusion 
on what Mr P would likely have done, and the ombudsman service has an inquisitorial role to 
look beyond precisely how Mr Ps complaint has (at one point, and inconsistently with the 
rest of the complaint) been expressed.
We do not of course know if Mr P would have sought any advice he needed to on alternative 
investments from CMIM, or another adviser. From what I can see, CMIM didnt credibly 
assess Mr Ps attitude to risk: it seems to have encouraged use of a balanced DFM portfolio 
for all its clients. So my preferred route to putting things right here would be to assume that 
Mr P remained with Wesleyan: either because he could still do so, or because the alternative 
investments he would have made when properly advised would in all likelihood have 
performed similarly to the Wesleyan plan. 
So, as a preferred method of redress I consider a notional value from Wesleyan would 
provide a fair and reasonable proxy for how Mr Ps funds would have performed. However I 
will set out an alternative method of redress later in this decision, if its not possible to obtain 
such a value from Wesleyan.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Ps losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know 
whether Mr P intends to complain about CGLs actions as his SSAS administrator, but 
occupational schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any 
case there is a higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are 
regulated and rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mr P has chosen to 
bring this complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Ps own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. 
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr P as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it 
shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr P would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him 
CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that 
on the balance of probabilities Mr P would still have gone ahead with making these 
investments, had CMIM treated him fairly.
Ive considered what Mr P told our investigator. I think hes been truthful that he felt 
badgered by the introducer into agreeing to invest. But what he was agreeing to initially was 
to be referred to CMIM, a regulated firm, for an opinion on TRG and its DFM service. And 
theres a reason people go to regulated firms for advice. Such firms have earned their 
regulatory authorisation. People trust the advice they give. In this case, CMIM displayed an 
awareness of Mr Ps legal obligations as a trustee and he issued his investment instructions to CGL on the basis of CMIMs advice. 
Accordingly I have little reason not to conclude that Mr P would have taken seriously a 
recommendation from CMIM not to invest in TRG. Im persuaded on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr P would not have made the TRG investment or invested in the same 
DFM funds. If an investigator has taken a different view on causation on another complaint, 
then either party may refer that view to an ombudsman. I may not have agreed with that 
view.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr P in the position he would have been in, 
had he not transferred from Wesleyan to the SSAS  or at least enjoyed similar ongoing 
performance to how the Wesleyan plan would have performed, for the reasons Ive given 
above. I recently asked the investigator to make CMIM aware that this would be my 
preferred method of redress when upholding the complaint.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Wesleyan to obtain 
a notional value for Mr Ps policy as at the date of my final decision, assuming that it
continued to be invested in the same funds after it was transferred-out. As a condition of 
accepting this decision Mr P will need to give CMIM his authority to obtain this information. 
This notional value should be compared with the actual value, as at the date of my final 
decision, of Mr Ps CGL SSAS (including any associated wrapper that now contains the 
proceeds of the amounts he has invested in DFM arrangements). 
The actual value of Mr Ps CGL SSAS as at the date of my final decision should be deducted 
from this notional value to arrive at Mr Ps initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding 
administration charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the 
actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That is the case with the TRG holding in the CGL SSAS. 
Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should include 
anything CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS. The fractional ownership company through 
membership of which Mr P holds the TRG investment should be consulted to achieve 
this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the TRG investment from the CGL SSAS it 
should value it as nil, as part of determining the actual value. Its also fair that Mr P 
should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS and 
move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly regulated arrangement. Third 
parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. So as I 
recently asked the investigator to remind CMIM, to provide certainty to all parties I 
think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS administration fees at 
the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to give a reasonable period of time for the 
SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS (should it not be possible for CMIM to do so).I cannot anticipate whether TRG and/or the fractional membership company will be 
permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to 
the extent that this is possible, CMIM will have benefited from the value it thinks is in the 
investment by buying it out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the 
investment, it may ask Mr P instead to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mr Ps losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need 
to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Mr P to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is a loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the initial 
loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax protections or 
allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay that amount 
direct to Mr P. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. But 
as he would be yet to take his tax-free cash sum, the adjustment should only apply to 75% of 
the compensation, giving a composite reduction of 15% overall.
CMIM must also pay Mr P £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning. Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr P in a 
clear, simple format.
If Wesleyan cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for Mr Ps
investment instead, and use it in the same way as the notional value in its calculations. 
Mr P was 45 at the time of advice and therefore at least ten years from his earliest possible 
retirement age. His CMC accepts that he might have been willing to take up to a medium risk 
 and where there is a longer term to retirement Mr P has more capacity to do that. Its also 
consistent with the medium lower risk profile adopted for the Organic portfolio (which was of 
course not the only asset in the SSAS) that Mr P was prepared to take some risk.
Therefore only if Wesleyan cannot provide a notional value  which remains the preferred 
method of redressing this complaint  I consider that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Index (on a total return basis) would be the appropriate benchmark to use in this case.
This benchmark is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK 
equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return. Although it is called an income index, the mix and 
diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr P's circumstances and likely risk attitude.
It doesnt mean that Mr P would have made investments that exactly mirrored the return on 
this index. For that reason CMIM shouldnt be deducting investment costs or other charges 
from the benchmark. The view Im taking here is that the sort of funds Mr P would have 
invested in with Wesleyan (or elsewhere, on further advice) would typically have performed 
broadly in line with this benchmark; notwithstanding the charges (which could have been 
lower than the SSAS in any event). It is a proxy that is being used for the purposes of 
compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or indeed gains (if any) flowing from the DFM investments Mr P  
made subsequent to CMIMs advice form part of his overall loss. I note the points CMIM has 
made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio was appropriate, which it 
cannot say for the subsequent reinvestment with Organic. But Ive reached the conclusion 
that Mr P would most likely have had no reason to be investing in these DFM arrangements 
at all, but for CMIMs failings.
So, including the present-day value of the DFM component is part of putting Mr P back into 
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. That includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider which also would not have needed to happen if CMIM 
had advised Mr P differently.
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Ps losses. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Ps rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay him compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above. If Mr P accepts 
this decision and compensation is not paid within 28 days of CMIM being notified of his 
acceptance, interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of the final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman