DRN-1968487
The complaint
Mrs W has a roadside assistance insurance policy underwritten by Ageas Insurance Limited. 
Ageas uses an agent to supply services under the policy. In this decision any mention of 
Ageas also refers to actions by its agents or representatives.
Mrs W complains that, following the breakdown of her car, she was wrongly advised by 
Ageas to drive to a garage, causing further damage to her car. She also complains about the 
slow handling of her complaint.
What happened
In mid-July 2019, Mrs Ws wheelchair-adapted car broke down. She phoned Ageas, who 
arranged for one of its partner recovery firms to attend. The engineer assessed the car, 
made some temporary repairs and instructed Mrs W to drive to a garage. 
On inspecting the car, the garage advised that the car shouldnt have been driven and that 
further damage was likely to have been caused.
Mrs W complained to Ageas. She chased Ageas regularly as the garage refused to 
undertake the repair until it had clarity on who was paying. Mrs W emphasised that her 
husband relied on the vehicle for transport to hospital, as well as for other appointments.
Around a month after the breakdown, Ageas confirmed that the repairs could proceed and 
that this would not impede the handling of the complaint. 
At the end of August, Ageas arranged for the recovery of the car to a different garage which 
specialised in disability-adjusted vehicles.
This second garage initially quoted £3,479 for the repairs but Mrs W was reluctant to 
proceed while it was unclear how much Ageas would pay. At the end of September, after 
many more phone calls and unable to wait longer due to the impact on her husbands health, 
Mrs W instructed the garage to begin the repairs.
In October 2019, Ageas made a conditional offer to pay 20% of the repair cost, dependent 
on the reasonableness of the price being confirmed in a second quote. Mrs W did not think 
this offer sufficient. She was also concerned that, given the work had already begun, it would 
be impossible to gain a second assessment of the cost. So, she brought her complaint to us.
Ultimately, the garage invoiced £2,549 for the work, which Mrs W paid.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint and recommended that Ageas should pay 
50% of the cost of repair, and pay Mrs W £450 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays in resolving her complaint. Ageas did not agree and 
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint raises three questions:
- Did the engineer attending Mrs Ws breakdown advise incorrectly, causing further 
damage to the car?
- If so, what proportion of the cost of repair should be borne by Ageas?
- And was Mrs Ws complaint handled by Ageas in a satisfactory way?
I set out below my findings on each of these questions in turn.
Cause of damage
Mrs Ws car clearly had a fault which caused it to break down. The engineer conducted a 
temporary repair to the radiator water hose. Unfortunately, we have no recorded evidence of 
what was said.
The first garage was surprised that the car had been driven from the breakdown. It said that 
The situation would not have been helped by driving the vehicle  it should have been 
recovered to us and checked and inspected before driving.
The second garage also expressed surprise that the engineer allowed the vehicle to be 
driven away. This garage said that, The hose blowing off would have been the cause for the 
engine to have stalled. However, the total failure of the head gasket and the further damage 
to the cylinder head could have been prevented had the vehicle been recovered to a garage 
for a full investigation and the cooling system bled through correctly.
Ageas has suggested that the typical response for an engineer in this situation would be to 
perform the temporary repair, refill with water, run the engine to temperature and, assuming 
all is operating safely, to advise the customer to drive to a garage keeping an eye on the 
temperature gauge. It said that there is nothing to suggest this didnt happen. Ageas have 
pointed to evidence from the first garage, who said that when the car arrived, the 
temperature gauge was at maximum.
It is impossible to know whether or not the engineer advised Mrs W to watch the temperature 
gauge and to stop her journey if she saw it rising. However, it is clear that an immediate 
recovery to a garage was not advised. On the basis of the evidence from both garages, I 
believe the engineer should have suggested this.
Therefore, I believe Ageas should bear some of the cost of repair to the vehicle.
Proportion of cost
In her complaint, Mrs W suggested that, given how long it took Ageas to resolve her claim 
and the stress caused, Ageas should now pay the full cost of repair. 
I deal with the handling of Mrs Ws complaint below. With regard to the repair, there was 
clearly a fault with Mrs Ws car irrespective of Ageass actions so I dont think it would be fair 
to ask Ageas to pay for the entire repair cost. 
Having fully inspected the car and conducted the repair, the second garage said, Had [the] 
vehicle been recovered to a garage rather than driven, then should the head gasket have gone, the damage to the cylinder head may not have happened. This could have resulted in 
a substantially lower final [repair] cost.
It is impossible to be precise about the extent of the damage caused by driving the car to the 
garage but, on the basis of the evidence above, I believe it was substantial.
Therefore, I believe Ageas should pay Mrs W 50% of the repair cost, which amounts to 
£1,274.50. In addition, it should pay Mrs W interest on this amount (at 8% simple per 
annum) from the date Mrs W paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
Handling of Mrs Ws complaint
Mrs W is a carer to her husband, who is in a vulnerable condition. She made clear to Ageas 
that she needed the car repaired quickly so that he could make his hospital appointments 
and for other trips. And yet it took Ageas over a month to confirm that the repairs could 
proceed. It took almost three months for it to confirm what proportion of the cost of the 
repairs it was willing to cover.
In my view, some of this period was avoidable. Ageas could have sent a loss adjuster to 
assess the damage to the vehicle, or it could have requested a quote for the repairs from the 
first garage, or it could have arranged for an independent quote while the car was at the 
second garage. I believe it could have reached a decision on its offer sooner; and, 
particularly given the vulnerability of the customers husband who depended on the car, it 
should have done so.
The delay caused Mrs W both distress and inconvenience. She has explained how, in this 
period, she saw her husbands health decline, which was made worse by him being unable 
to leave the house. He missed some hospital appointments and other social appointments. 
His anxiety increased, affecting his ability to take medication, sleep, concentrate and 
manage pain. This all caused Mrs W distress and made caring for her husband harder. 
Mrs W found that she couldnt sleep and suffered headaches and heart palpitations for which 
she was prescribed medication. She also experienced additional financial stress as her 
husband couldnt get to work without the vehicle.
Given the breakdown, there would inevitably have been a period in which the car needed 
repair and was unavailable for use. However, the delay caused by Ageas first not confirming 
that the repairs could begin, and second not confirming how much it would pay, added to this 
period.
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by Ageass delays in addressing 
Mrs Ws complaint, I believe it should pay Mrs W £450.
My final decision
My decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs W:
- £1,274.50 towards the cost of repair, and 8% per annum simple interest on this 
amount from the date Mrs W paid the invoice to the date of settlement; and
- £450 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs W by its delays.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman