DRN-4482231
The complaint
Miss H complains about Wise Payments Limited.
She says that Wise didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a scam
and would like Wise to refund her the money she has lost as a result.
What happened
In September 2022, Miss H was looking online at investment opportunities and came across
what appeared to be a celebrity endorsed scheme offering investment in bitcoin.
Miss H clicked on the website and entered some details and was contacted by phone.
The individual who contacted Miss H discussed her reasons for wanting to invest and talked
her through how things worked and what to expect.
Miss H was persuaded to invest and was provided a contract and details of her customer
portal to see her investments and downloaded Anydesk on request and opened an account
with Wise to make the required payments. She was impressed by the knowledge of the
individual, who seemed professional and capable.
Miss H made the following payments.
Date Payee Payment type Amount
23/09/2022 Binance Card payment £4,500
04/10/2022 Binance Card payment £7,165
14/10/2022 Binance Card payment £7,000
19/10/2022 Binance Card payment £5,000
19/10/2022 Binance Card payment £5,000
Total £28,665
However, Miss H then had trouble accessing her supposed profits  and was told that she 
needed to pay more commission in order to release the funds.
Miss H realised she was dealing with a scammer  and complained to Wise.
Wise didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint, so she brought it to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt think that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. 
Unhappy, Miss H asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
I have previously issued a provisional decision on Miss Hs complaint where I explained that 
I was minded to uphold the complaint in part.
Miss H agreed with my provisional decision, but Wise did not. 
While I have considered what Wise has said, this hasnt persuaded me to change my 
decision, so I now issue my final decision and will explain why what it has said hasnt 
changed my mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and taking into account what Wise has said, I am still upholding this 
complaint in part.
I understand that one concern raised by Wise was that my provisional decision was so 
discrepant to that of our Investigator. However, when an ombudsman makes a decision on a 
complaint, this is a separate consideration to the view of an investigator and can at times 
differ in outcome. This is explained on our website, and by our Investigators when a case 
cannot be resolved by an initial view.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
I dont think it is in dispute here that Miss H was taken in by a scam  and while she never 
intended her money to end up with a scammer, she authorised the payments in question 
here  and so is presumed liable in the first instance.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And I have taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Wise should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Wise acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss H when she authorised payments from her account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing them.
This leads me to consider the payments that Miss H made  and if Wise should have 
intervened.
The first payment
Having considered the first payment Miss H made to Binance from her wise account, I am 
not persuaded that Wise needed to become involved at this point. There was no account 
history for Wise to compare the payment to, and while it was going to a cryptocurrency 
exchange not all such payments are as a result of a scam  and as Ive explained, 
businesses cant be involved in every transaction.
The second payment
The second payment was for a significantly higher amount than the first  and was the 
second payment to crypto in only a few weeks. I think that this should have prompted Wise 
into making further enquiries about what was going on and check that everything was in 
order especially given that by January 2019, Wise should already have had a good 
understanding about how scams like the one Miss H fell victim to work.
I understand that Wise has questioned why our investigator said that Miss H slowly 
increased her spending  whereas I deem this to be a significant increase. But as Wise itself 
has said, the increase was at almost 60%. I dont believe that this is a slow increase in value 
of the payments. And while Wise says that the third payment wasnt until three weeks after 
the first, and it wasnt until this point that Miss H began making payments with increasing 
frequency, I still think that the second payment was enough to have alerted Wise that 
something may be wrong and it was at this point it should have intervened, so the gap 
between the first and third payment is not relevant. 
With this in mind, Wise should reasonably have contacted Miss H to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing her in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. Had Wise contacted Miss H, I wouldve expected it to have questioned her 
about the payment  including what she was making the payment for and surrounding 
context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss H was coached by the scammer or provided 
with a cover story as to what she was doing  so I think that she would have said that she 
came across a celebrity endorsed advert for investment in Bitcoin online and was being 
helped by someone on how to do so.
The celebrity endorsement alone should have been a red flag to Wise  and it should then 
have provided Miss H with a meaningful warning on crypto scams  including that fake 
celebrity endorsements are often involved, as it the use of Anydesk and making further 
payments for commission before being able to access profits. It could also have told Miss H 
that often fake customer portals are used to display investment performance that has been 
fabricated by a scammer in an attempt to prove legitimacy of the supposed investment and 
directed Miss H to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) scam smart website.
Had Wise done so, I dont think that Miss H would have ignored such a warning  especially as this warning would have mirrored what was happening to her at the time. And I dont think 
that Miss H would have continued with the payment.
I know that Wise says that a warning may have been ineffective  but as it didnt provide any 
such warning when it should have done, I dont think that it can say that Miss H would have 
likely ignored what a trusted EMI told her.
So, with this in mind, I think that Wise missed an opportunity to prevent Miss Hs loss from 
this point.
While I do consider that Wise should have prevented the payments made the second 
payment, I do also have to consider if Miss H should bear some responsibility for the loss 
here too, by way of contributory negligence.
However Miss H is already bearing some of the responsibility here as I am not upholding the 
first payment that she made  and I do not think that a further reduction for contributory 
negligence is appropriate in this instance.
Miss H was not a sophisticated investor  and was persuaded by the professional 
appearance of the scammer, and the advice that it gave her  and further persuaded by the 
fact that she signed a seemingly legitimate contract. She has also explained that she didnt 
have any knowledge of the FCAs authorisation register until Wise alerted her to it.
I know that Wise thinks that Miss H should have done more due diligence  but as Ive 
explained Wise was the expert here  not Miss H  and so it should have had more 
awareness of the intricacies of such scams whereas Miss H was inexperienced in such 
matters. 
Putting things right
Wise should pay Miss H the total of payments two to five.
I calculate this to be £24,165.
On top of this, Wise should pay Miss H 8% simple interest from the date of each payment 
until settlement (minus any lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. 
Wise Payments Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman