DRN-2671748
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited allowed him to exceed his credit limit which resulted in 
him losing a promotional interest rate. 
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card with MBNA and had a promotional 0% interest rate. Mr C says he 
received his annual credit card statement in the post from MBNA and was surprised that his 
promotional interest rate had ended prematurely.  He says that this document stated hed 
been charged over £600 in interest.
Mr C raised a complaint with MBNA. They said that he had exceeded his credit limit and so 
his promotional interest rate had ended in line with the terms and conditions of his account. 
Mr C said he never received any information from MBNA about exceeding his credit limit.
MBNA did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that on the first page of his credit card 
statement it explains that promotional offers will no longer apply from the beginning of any 
statement period during which he would go over his credit limit. MBNA said that it was 
communicated to him in his November 2018 statement that the promotional period had 
ended.
Mr C asked MBNA further questions. One of the questions was why MBNA would allow him 
to go over his credit limit. MBNA explained to Mr C that it was to avoid embarrassment. Mr C 
says that around October 2019 he used the secure message facility on MBNAs website 
where a member of staff from MBNA told him that the decision to allow a customer to 
exceed their credit limit was discretionary and not automatic.
Mr C had further communication with MBNA over a number of months where he provided 
new information to them but it did not change the outcome of his complaint. In a letter dated 
28 February 2020 MBNA explained to Mr C that some merchants use an automated process 
which enables them to process a transaction without contacting MBNA to ensure funds are 
available. They explained that this applies to all of their customers. MBNA also said they 
provided Mr C with a copy of his credit card agreement. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. During the investigation, MBNA said to our 
investigator that they may have sent Mr C an email about him going over his credit limit but 
they were unable to locate the email. They could not locate any of the secure messages Mr 
C had with their customer services about the threshold being discretionary. Our investigator 
did not uphold his complaint. The investigator said that MBNA had been fair in applying their 
terms and conditions which apply to all of their customers. Mr C disagreed with the view of 
the investigator and raised a number of further points which the investigator addressed. Mr C 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to both MBNA and this service and Ive considered, 
listened to and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Both parties agree that Mr C had exceeded his credit limit during the promotional period. So 
what I need to consider now is whether MBNA have been fair and reasonable in how theyve 
applied their terms and conditions here. Im satisfied that they have and Ill explain why.
When Mr C applied for the credit card he agreed to be bound to the terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at the credit agreement which he electronically signed. The credit agreement 
states You must not go over your credit limit at any time. If we allow you to go over your 
credit limit, this will not be regarded as an increase to your credit limit. If you go over your 
credit limit, you must pay us the overlimit amount immediately.
Ive also looked at a screenshot of the application process. Here it states read the credit 
agreement, and in step 3 check the box to indicate your agreement to the terms and 
conditions. As Mr C will have needed to check the box to progress his application then he 
wouldve agreed that hes read the terms and conditions. So I think he wouldve been aware 
that there could be instances where he may be able to go over his credit limit and that by 
allowing him to go over his limit, MBNA werent extending or increasing his credit limit.
Ive noted the strength of feeling from Mr C regarding a secret limit which he believes 
MBNA have for certain customers and if MBNA could find the secured messages that he had 
with a member of staff then this would show that they have a discretionary credit limit for 
some customers. MBNA have said they stopped secure messages on 13 July 2018 but they 
continued to offer webchat. From April 2020 to date theyve used a different format for their 
webchat. They said theyve been unable to locate the conversation Mr C had with their 
member of staff and have exhausted all avenues of trying to retrieve the messages. As 
MBNA have been unable to retrieve the messages its difficult for me to know exactly what 
was said and how things were put during it. So it wouldve been helpful if I could have read 
these messages, but Im not persuaded they would make a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint for the reasons Ill set out below. 
MBNA have confirmed that there is no such thing as a secret limit. But they have confirmed 
that there is an automated decision strategy system that may allow a customer to transact 
over their credit limit for low risk accounts. This is not an extra credit limit but it would avoid 
the embarrassment and inconvenience of a declined transaction. As previously mentioned 
by our investigator, the terms and conditions are clear that there may be times that MBNA 
will allow a customer to go over their credit limit. So I dont think its unreasonable for MBNA 
to have a system in place for the reasons theyve given.
Ive also thought about whether any of MBNAs customers could go over their credit limit or if 
MBNA have specifically targeted Mr C to do so on the occasions he did. But by looking at 
the information MBNA have provided it appears that this can be out of their control  many 
merchants also use an automated authorisation process; meaning that a merchant will 
automatically verify and authorize transactions without contacting the credit card provider to 
ensure funds are available. Please be aware that this applies to all customers. 
While it appears that Mr C believes that MBNA have specifically chosen him to go over his 
credit limit so he will lose his promotional 0% interest, Im not persuaded that MBNA have 
been unreasonable in applying the terms and conditions here. Mr C willve been aware at the 
application stage that there are instances where he could go over the credit limit and was clearly warned in the credit agreement and his monthly statements what would happen to 
the promotional interest rate if he went over his credit limit. Ultimately, thats what happened 
here. 
While MBNA may allow customer to exceed limits on occasions, Mr C was also aware of his 
credit limit and, by asking MBNA to make payments that took him over that he did exceed 
that limit. I realise why Mr C might think that MBNA shouldnt have made the payments  
because by doing so, he would have been prevented from exceeding his limit and his 
promotional interest rate wouldve continued. But MBNA has shown that its terms allow it to 
take the actions it did here and, in the circumstances, I think theyve done so fairly, even if 
Mr C doesnt see it like that.
Ive thought about what Mr C said about how he wasnt informed that he had exceeded his 
credit limit. MBNA have said that they may have sent him an email regarding this but they 
dont have a template of it. So in the absence of this email Ive looked again at what the 
credit agreement shows - the promotional rate would be withdrawn from the start of the 
statement period in which this happens. So Mr C wouldve been aware of the promotional 
interest rate ending if he checked his statements. I know Mr C says he didnt check his 
statements, but it wouldnt be fair to hold MBNA responsible for him not looking at 
information theyve made available to him and so it follows that I wont be asking MBNA to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman