DRN-3061321
The complaint
Ms B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax will not refund some disputed 
transactions.
What happened
The transactions which Ms B is disputing were made in March and April 2020. She said she 
hadnt made these payments which were all made to R  a money transfer company.  Two 
payments were made on 16th March 2020, a further payment on 14th April and a final 
payment on 17th April 2020.
Halifax investigated Ms Bs complaint.  It looked into telephone calls it had had with her at 
the time of the transactions and said it wasnt going to uphold her complaint.  In its final 
response to Ms B it gave the following reasons:
- the IP address used to make the disputed transactions matched the IP address used 
by Ms B for previous undisputed payments;
- when Ms B had first contacted Halifax about the disputed transactions, she initially 
said she was disputing the payments made in April.  She accepted she had made 
payments in March and accepted she held an account with R.  She was now 
disputing the March payments;
- When Ms B had first tried to make an online payment for £1600 to M (another money 
transfer company) on 16th March the payment had been blocked by Halifax.  She 
spoke to them on the phone and was advised to attend branch with identification;
- Halifax had asked whether she had been asked to make these payments by 
someone else, Ms B confirmed she hadnt;
- when the payments werent successful using her Halifax account, Ms B had left the 
branch saying she would find another way to make the payment;
- later on that day, the first two payments to R were processed;
- on 25th March, Ms B had paid off the balance on her account.  Halifax said she would 
have known about the March transactions before paying off the balance;
Ms B wasnt happy with the response from Halifax, so she came to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into her complaint for her but didnt think he could ask Halifax to do 
anymore because he said the evidence showed that she had authorised these payments.  
He referred specifically to the telephone calls Ms B had had with Halifax and her visit to 
branch on 16th March.  He sent these calls to Ms B and asked for her response to them but 
Ms B didnt respond.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, Im afraid I agree with the investigator here and I think the evidence shows 
Ms B authorised these payments.
I remind myself that authorisation consists of two elements  authentication and consent  
and it is for Halifax to show Ms B authorised these payments rather than for Ms B to show 
she did not.  I also remind myself that Halifax needs to discharge this burden on the civil 
standard.  In other words, is it more likely than not that Ms B authorised these transactions?
I have also listened to the telephone calls Halifax had with Ms B on 16th March and then on 
3rd August when she called to complain about the April transactions  and there is no doubt 
in my mind that it is Ms B on the phone on every occasion.  Of course, it would have been 
helpful to have Ms Bs account of these calls but that has not been possible.
So, considering authentication, I am satisfied from the evidence I have seen that Ms Bs 
genuine card was used to make these payments.  But as I said above the, relevant 
regulations say this is not enough, on its own to show authorisation.  I need to be satisfied 
that Ms B also consented to them.  I think she did for the following reasons:
- the first attempt to pay M was blocked and Halifax spoke to Ms B.  That call was 
disconnected twice for some reason  but the reasons given by Ms B for making the 
payments changed during the second call when questioned by Halifax.  During the 
first, she says she is sending money to her cousin in Turkey.  During the second, she 
says she is buying a print for her cousin and is sending this money to a guy.  I think 
this was a deliberate attempt by Ms B to convince Halifax to unblock her account so 
that she could make this payment;
- when the payment wouldnt go through whilst in branch, Ms B asked if Halifax could 
make a transfer into her current account as she wanted to make this payment.  I think 
this shows how keen Ms B was to make the payment;
- during the call in August when Ms B calls to complain, she accepts making the 
payments in March and accepts she had an account with R.  In subsequent 
conversations, she denies making the payments in March.  Ive listened carefully to 
that call and I am satisfied that there was no confusion during the call of 3rd August.  
Ms B clearly accepts making the transactions from March;
- in addition, the balance on the account was paid off at the end of March.  If Ms B had 
genuinely not made the payments in March, I think its likely she would have been 
alerted to the high balance at the time;
- in order for the April payments to be made, Halifax said it sent a one-time passcode 
to Ms Bs registered number.  This would have to be entered before the payment was 
successful.  Ms B says she never received this text, but I think its likely that she did;
- Ms B has said that her card has always been in her possession.  She has never 
given it to anyone to use.  She told Halifax she couldnt be sure if she had ever given 
anyone remote access to her computer (other than a friend).  I think if she had 
allowed a stranger to access her computer remotely, its likely she would remember.
For these reasons, I think the payments from Ms Bs account were authorised.
I have then considered whether Halifax could have done anymore to protect Ms Bs account.  
The starting position in law of course is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. In some instances, we 
would expect unusual transactions to be identified as potential fraud  and this is exactly 
what has happened here.  So, Im satisfied on the evidence I have seen that Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in subsequently allowing these payments to leave Ms Bs account for 
reasons I have already given above.  Based on the assurances she gave to staff on the 
phone, I think it was fair to conclude that she genuinely consented to them being made.
In the circumstances, I cant see anything to suggest Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how it dealt with Ms Bs complaint.
I know Ms B has provided this service with evidence of an individual who she says is part of 
a so called romance scam.  She says she met with this male once and realised they had 
nothing in common.  Im not sure what the relevance of this information is if Ms B says she 
never provided this male with her account details  but it may be that she had been 
persuaded to make payments to him and now realises he was a fraudster and regrets her 
actions.
Either way, I wont be asking Halifax to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman