DRN-2678267
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ms efforts to move their buy-to-let mortgage from their 
existing lender (which Ill call C) to Barclays Bank UK PLC before their fixed rate ended. 
They say Barclays took too long to tell them the property didnt meet its lending policy, 
leaving them paying interest at Cs standard variable rate for several months until they 
agreed a new deal to stay with C.
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The main facts arent in dispute, and Barclays has accepted fault and made an offer to settle 
the complaint. All Im required to decide is whether that offer is fair so I will focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Barclays has agreed to refund the extra interest Mr and Mrs M paid on their mortgage with C 
from May 2019 (when it should have informed them their property didnt meet its 
lending criteria) to August 2019 (when it did inform them). Its also offered Mr and Mrs M 
£400. They say thats not enough; in their view Barclays should cover the extra interest up to 
December 2019 when their new rate was agreed with C and reimburse the professional fees 
they incurred in connection with the application to Barclays.
The complaint has been made jointly by Mr and Mrs M; all of our dealings have been with 
Mr M. We last heard from Mr M last month when he told us he intended to make a further 
submission that week, but weve not received it. However, I see no reason to delay matters 
further; almost three months have passed since our investigator gave her initial view of the 
complaint, and Mr M has already replied extensively. Its for me to decide if I have all the 
information I need to decide a complaint fairly, and Im satisfied I do here.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions:
The offer to cover the extra interest up to August 2019 is fair. Mr M says that if theyd 
known at the end of May 2019 that Barclays couldnt lend, he and Mrs M could have 
switched rates with C right away. That being the case, its reasonable to conclude they 
could have done so right away when they were told in August 2019. Its not fair or 
reasonable for Barclays to cover the extra interest they paid from then until December 
2019.
The buy-to-let application at the heart of this complaint is one of two that Mr and Mrs M 
made to Barclays around the same time; the other application isnt part of the complaint. 
The professional fees Mr and Mrs M incurred were to provide information to support the 
applications, not to guarantee either would succeed. Mr and Mrs M argue that an 
affordability assessment wouldnt have been needed if theyd remained with C rather 
than apply to Barclays. The fact is though, they did apply to Barclays, and their reason 
for doing so is apparent from the evidence on file. They believed Barclays deal was 
better than what C was likely to offer them. That was their choice, and they were entitled 
to make it, but they did so knowing that theyd need to incur professional fees.
For the time, trouble and upset caused by the three-month delay in Barclays telling 
Mr and Mrs M their buy-to-let property didnt meet its lending criteria, I consider £400 to 
be fair compensation. Its broadly in line with the level of award Id generally make in 
similar circumstances.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling, Im satisfied 
Barclays offer to settle their complaint is fair and that theres no basis for me to order it to do 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman