DRN-1585910
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim for income protection.
What happened
Mr F has a group income protection policy through his employer.
In November 2017, he suffered a heart attack and became absent from work. A claim was 
submitted to Unum, but this was declined in September 2018.
Mr F appealed Unums decision in November 2018. Unum requested and reviewed updated 
medical evidence and sent its final response in May 2019. It maintained its original view that 
the decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. Unhappy with Unums decision 
and the length of time taken to reach a decision, Mr F referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Unum had done anything wrong. 
She said Unum had reviewed the medical evidence and had explained that it didnt find an 
illness which would impair Mr Fs ability to carry out the normal duties of his job. 
Mr F disagreed and said he was suffering from mental health issues which made him unfit 
for work and he had provided medical evidence from a private GP and occupational health 
reports which confirmed he wasnt fit to work. Mr F was also unhappy about the 
investigators understanding of mental health and said it was grossly unfair that Unum didnt 
think mental illness was a satisfactory reason for being absent from work.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as explained by the investigator.
Unums terms and conditions set out when a claim will be paid. It says:
Benefit is paid when a member is incapacitated, was actively working on the day 
immediately prior to the start of the incapacity, and evidence has been provided to Unum 
which satisfies Unum of the incapacity
Incapacitated is defined as follows:
(1) For the deferred period and the first 2 years following the completion of the deferred 
period, if
a.Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation, and b.the member is not following any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3, 
then the member is incapacitated.
Ill now explain what this means for Mr Fs case. In order to be eligible for the benefit, Mr F 
must show that he is unable to carry out the main aspects of his role due to illness or injury. 
Unum needs to be satisfied that Mr F is unable to carry out the main aspects of his role due 
to illness or injury for the whole of the deferred period. The deferred period is 39 weeks. 
Ive seen Unum reviewed the medical evidence and didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
to show that Mr F was suffering from an illness throughout the deferred period (between 
November 2017 and August 2018).
Ive reviewed the relevant medical history and have listed the key entries below:
November 2017 
Mr F suffered a heart attack.
 
December 2017 
An occupational health practitioner (OHP) report says Mr F expressed some 
concerns relating to workplace pressures over the past year and stress. Mr F said he 
was struggling with sleep due to anxiety symptoms. OHP report said Mr F was 
currently unfit for work. 
 
February 2018 
GP telephone advice and discussion with Mr F which mentions Mr F is still feeling 
very tired, gets odd pains and headache, stress and anxiety and has already booked 
counselling sessions through work. GP said cause of aches, pain and tiredness could 
be medication and to discuss this with cardiology consultant.
Further OHP review says Mr F is currently unfit for work and likely to remain so until 
further reviewed by treating specialist, which is scheduled at the end of April 2018.
GP telephone advice which says Mr F would have been off work for a long time after 
his heart attack and unless there is any obvious reason that the consultant feels he 
shouldnt return, he should be speaking to work and planning a phased return with 
them in advance.
Confirmation letter to GP that Mr F had completed a six-week Cardiac Rehabilitation 
programme consisting of 12 sessions of education, exercise and relaxation. Mr F 
worked well on the advanced exercise circuit.
 
April 2018 
Letter from cardiology specialist to GP which confirmed that Mr F had no further 
chest pain since his discharge from hospital. His heart sounds were normal, and 
chest was clear. Mr F has other questions about his tiredness that he has noticed 
since he was put on some medication. The consultant said Mr F should come off the 
medication for four weeks to see if this would improve his tiredness - Mr F said he 
would make a decision about this. A treadmill test had also been arranged.
 
 May 2018 
OHP telephone review. Mr F advised of minimal improvement to symptoms and said 
his specialist had requested further investigations. 
Letter from Consultant Cardiologist confirming Mr F had completed an exercise 
treadmill test on 22 May 2018 and said He managed 10 minutes and 26 seconds of 
a Bruce protocol. Heart rate response was attenuated somewhat by the bisoprolol 
but he did an excellent effort at high workload with no symptoms other than leg 
discomfort and mild breathlessness at peak exercise. There was minor upsloping 
depression in the inferior leads and therefore I would say negative for exercise 
induced ischaemia, which is very reassuring.
 
July 2018 
Mr F was referred back to the consultant cardiologist as his next review wasnt 
scheduled until November. The GP noted Mr F had said he was still getting some 
chest tightness and arm discomfort and he wanted to return to work but didnt feel 
well enough. GP said there was likely to be an underlying anxiety component, not 
helped by his wifes ill health. GP asked Mr F to be reviewed in view of his ongoing 
symptoms.
OHP telephone review. Mr F reported continued symptoms of chest pain, dizziness 
and shortness of breath. He was encouraged to contact the EAP support team to 
discuss any anxiety he may have.
 
October 2018 
GP entry showed anxiousness symptoms  it said Mr F had been less confident 
since the heart attack and was still getting occasional pain and tightness.
Mr F was referred to the NHS primary mental health support service by his GP for 
anxiousness. The GP felt Mr F would benefit from stress and anxiety management.
 
November 2018 
Letter from mental health support practitioner confirming a telephone assessment 
had been carried out. The letter confirmed Mr F indicated feelings of daily anxiety 
since his heart attack and also feelings of anxiety related to work. Mr F wanted to 
understand anxiety and strategies to help manage anxiety and stress. Courses were 
discussed.
Letter from consultant cardiologist to the GP confirming Mr F had been reviewed. He 
had no further cardiac sounding chest pain and was getting occasional pain in his left 
elbow. His other complaint was tiredness and the consultant had advised a change in 
medication to see whether symptoms of tiredness would improve.
 
December 2018 
Letter from consultant in metabolic medicine to the GP which said Mr F was feeling 
reasonably well but has a host of various nonspecific symptoms as well as feeing 
generally a little under the weather. The cardiologist had recently suggested 
changing medication and the consultant thought this was a reasonable course of 
action. Medical report from private GP. This said Mr F had initially been signed off due to his 
heart attack but he subsequently developed psychological sequelae as a resultHe 
has developed symptoms of anxiety and occasional low moodCurrently however I 
do feel he continues to be unfit for work as a result of the reasons mentioned above, 
specifically lethargy and anxiety.
 
January 2019 
Letter from GP which said the barrier stopping Mr F returning to work is seemingly 
the fatigue and anxiety. It is hard to identify currently the main cause of this; and it is 
hard to predict if, and how quickly, he will respond to any changes in medication or 
therapies that may help to improve this. Therefore, it is hard to say when he will be 
able to return to work. It may be that his Hospital Consultant can better answer this.
 
February 2019 
OHP report says: it appears his poor psychological health and symptoms of ongoing 
fatigue are the barriers to him returning to work at this time.
 
Unum confirmed its commencement date for liability as 16 August 2018. 
In September 2018, it sent a letter declining Mr Fs claim as the medical evidence showed 
he had made a good recovery from his heart attack. It said Mr Fs GP suggested he 
considered a return to work and there was no objective medical evidence to support an 
ongoing absence from the workplace or ongoing functional impairment which would prevent 
a return to work. 
Mr F wrote to Unum in November 2018 to say he was unhappy with its decision and wanted 
to raise a formal appeal. 
Unum requested updated medical records and sent its final decision in May 2019. This 
concluded that Mr Fs barriers to returning to work were due to reported fatigue and anxiety. 
Unum said the evidence didnt demonstrate any functional restrictions or limitations that 
would have prevented him from carrying out the main duties of his job. And the anxiety Mr F 
experienced would be considered normal for a return to work after a prolonged period of 
absence.
Based on the above, I dont think Unum has unfairly or unreasonably declined the claim. The 
main barriers to work are documented as stress and anxiety. Stress is not an illness and the 
anxiety Mr F is suffering from hasnt been diagnosed as an anxiety disorder and he isnt 
taking any medication for it. And so based on Unums terms and conditions, there is no 
ongoing illness or injury which is preventing Mr F from returning to work.
Unum says Mr Fs anxiety is a normal reaction after a prolonged period of absence. The 
medical evidence suggests medication is the possible cause of the fatigue and Mr F has 
been advised to change to an alternative. So there isnt a specific illness which has been 
diagnosed. His heart attack happened in November 2017 but the reports from the cardiology 
consultant and the GPs records confirm that they were happy with his recovery and 
progress and he would be reviewed regularly. 
Unum had also considered the OHP reports and the independent medical evidence from Mr 
Fs private GP.The OHP reports confirm Mr F isnt fit to work - but these reports by themselves arent 
enough to satisfy the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr F may not be fit to work  but to 
satisfy the terms of the policy this must be due to illness or injury.
The private GPs medical report also confirms that the reason for Mr Fs absence is fatigue 
and anxiety with no known cause and so Mr F doesnt meet the definition of incapacitated as 
he isnt suffering from an illness which is preventing him from returning to work. Instead, the 
evidence shows that Mr F is suffering from stress and symptoms of anxiety (but he hasnt 
been diagnosed with an anxiety disorder).  
Mr Fs physical symptoms including arm pain and tightness in the chest were reviewed by 
the consultant cardiologist who didnt think they were severe or of concern. He did a 
treadmill test and no serious concerns were raised. He was also advised to try a change in 
medication to combat the fatigue. And so Unum wasnt satisfied that these symptoms would 
prevent Mr F from performing the material and substantial duties of his job. I dont think 
Unums decision was unreasonable as it explained it had relied on the medical evidence 
available, which it is entitled to do.
There is no doubt that Mr F is suffering from symptoms of stress and low mood but as stress 
is not an illness, he doesnt meet the definition of incapacitated and so I dont think Unum 
has done anything wrong. In addition, although it took Unum a number of months to respond 
to Mr Fs appeal, Im satisfied that it kept him reasonably updated and confirmed it was 
requesting and reviewing up to date medical evidence. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman