DRN-2831692
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited havent paid him enough for his 
van when he claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident, so he claimed on his policy. Admiral accepted the claim 
and said Mr Bs van was deemed to be a total loss. Because of this Admiral offered Mr B the 
market value of his van. To determine this Admiral looked at two trade guides and offered Mr 
B the highest of the two, which was £11,050 not including VAT, as Mr B is VAT registered. 
Mr B didnt think this was enough and complained, he said because of the Covid-19 
pandemic the prices of vans had increased and he didnt think the guides took this into 
account. Admiral looked into Mr Bs complaint but said its valuation was fair. Mr B didnt 
agree and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He 
looked at three trade guides and found Admirals valuation was within the range of these. He 
also said he didnt think the adverts Mr B provided were more persuasive as the guides take 
into account a range of sources of information. Mr B didnt agree, he said hed spoken to van 
dealers and provided adverts to show his van was worth more than Admiral had valued it at. 
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say that if Admiral deem his van a total loss, it will 
pay him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle, 
with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at 
the time of loss.
Our service doesnt value vans. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use
relevant trade guides. I tend to find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide 
research of sales prices. 
Admiral has used two trade guides to value Mr Bs van, we also have access to another 
trade guide, so Ive also considered that one too. When I have done, I can see the guides 
provide a value for Mr Bs van which ranges from £10,266 to £11,841, not including VAT. As 
Admirals valuation was within the range of the guides, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable 
amount. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs points about the trade guides not being up to date because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, and the prices of vans rising. Im not persuaded this means theyre 
not a fair and reasonable way of valuing Mr Bs van, in this particular case. I say this 
because the guides use a range of sources to provide the values. I can also see from the 
data in these valuations that the guides have taken into account advertised prices at the time 
of loss. So, while Mr B has provided some adverts, the guides have also taken adverts into 
account when providing a value. It therefore follows that Im therefore not persuaded to 
depart from the guides in this particular case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds value of £11,050 is fair and 
reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman