DRN-3648145
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc rejected her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1975.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs D purchased a mattress from a furniture store and paid using her 
Sainsburys credit card.
The mattress was delivered in October 2020, but Mrs D noticed that it wasnt the same as 
the one shed ordered because the fabric was different. Mrs D was unbale to resolve matters 
with the supplier, so she made a claim to Sainsburys under section 75.
Sainsburys asked Mrs D to provide an independent report to show that the material wasnt 
what she had ordered. Mrs D contacted the manufacturer who confirmed that the mattress 
wasnt covered in seacell fabric. The manufacturer offered to re-cover the mattress. Mrs D 
declined the offer as this would have left her without a mattress whilst hers was being re-
covered.
Mrs D provided the report to Sainsburys. It contacted the manufacturer and advised Mrs D 
that the mattress would be replaced.
Mrs D received a replacement mattress, but it was still made from the wrong fabric. 
Sainsburys asked Mrs D to provide evidence that the fabric wasnt what she had originally 
ordered. Sainsburys has said that it didnt receive any evidence from Mrs D, so it rejected 
the section 75 claim. Mrs D referred her complaint to this service and, after the investigator 
had issued a view not upholding the complaint, provided further evidence to show that the 
fabric wasnt what she had ordered.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I was satisfied that the 
replacement mattress supplied to Mrs D wasnt covered in the fabric which shed originally 
ordered. I concluded that there had been a breach of contract and said that Sainsburys 
should arrange to collect the mattress and refund the purchase price to Mrs D.
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wished to 
raise.
Mrs D accepted my decision but asked whether she could retain the replacement mattress 
until she had been able to arrange for a new mattress to be delivered so that she wasnt left 
without a mattress. She said she would be prepared to arrange for the disposal of the 
mattress herself.
Sainsburys replied and said it had been told by the merchant that the replacement mattress 
supplied to Mrs D was the correct fabric. It said it hadnt received any evidence to dispute 
this. It also said it would find it difficult to collect the mattress from Mrs D and asked whether 
this service would consider allowing Mrs D to arrange for the mattress to be disposed of, 
either by collection by a charity or by asking her local council to collect and dispose of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further points made by both parties. My decision hasnt changed. Mrs D 
has been consistent throughout as to the reasons why the fabric wasnt what she ordered. 
The manufacturer provided incorrect information to Sainsburys when it advised that the 
fabric was what Mrs D had initially ordered.
Both parties have made comments about the collection/disposal of the mattress. I think there 
is merit in both parties positions. I think the fairest resolution would be for Mrs D to arrange 
disposal of the mattress once she has obtained a new mattress for herself. She can either 
give the mattress to charity (some charities will collect items such as mattresses for free) or 
send it to landfill. 
Putting things right
To put things right Sainsburys Bank Plc must refund the purchase price of the mattress and 
pay 8% simple interest on the amount refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman