DRN-4520741
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked and closed their bank 
accounts. They say this caused them financial problems, upset and inconvenience. They are 
also unhappy about the service Santander provided. 
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs K and Mr K were long standing customers of Santander. Mrs K had a current account 
and credit card with Santander. Mrs K has explained that she used her Santander current 
account to receive her wages and pay her bills. She also had a joint account with her 
husband, Mr K. The joint account was used to receive payments from a number of 
individuals as part of a Christmas savings club which Mrs K and Mr K say theyd run for a 
number of years.  
In May 2023, Santander blocked and reviewed Mrs K and Mr Ks accounts. This meant 
Mrs K and Mr K wasnt able to  access the money in the accounts. The accounts were 
blocked for six days. Following this, on 23 May 2023, Santander decided to close Mrs K and 
Mr Ks current account and savings accounts immediately. In July 2023, Santander decided 
to close Mrs Ks credit card account asked Mrs K to repay her credit card balance of just 
under £160 within seven days. 
Mrs K and Mr K made several phone calls and sent emails to Santander whilst the accounts 
were blocked seeking an explanation for the banks actions. They suspected that the bank 
had closed their accounts because of the activity on their joint account. They said they had 
done nothing wrong, that the account was an informal savings club for around ten people 
that had been running for many years. They said that they had always been open and 
transparent about the club when Santander had asked them for information and that staff in 
their local branches were well aware of how they were using their joint account.
Mr K said Santander wouldnt provide him with much information about the reasons it had 
blocked and closed the accounts. Mrs K has said that she had to open new accounts and 
was also asked to repay a penny towards her credit card balance, which she says made her 
feel harassed and upset. Especially as Mrs K says Santander told her that the balance had 
been repaid. Mrs K says because of this she had to make a number of calls to arrange to 
repay the penny and eventually managed to make a payment online to bring the balance to 
zero.
In response to Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint Santander said it was complying with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it had blocked Mrs K and Mr Ks account. And that it  had 
closed the accounts in line with the terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs K and Mr K brought their complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator asked Santander to provide more information 
about why it had blocked and then closed Mrs K and Mr Ks account immediately. Santander 
gave us some information  and said that the bank was complying with its legal obligations 
when it reviewed the accounts and had closed the accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts.
The investigator said that based on the limited information, she couldnt say the bank had 
treated Mrs K and Mr K fairly when it had closed Mrs K and Mr Ks accounts immediately. 
She said that the Santander should have given them more notice. So, she said that 
Santander should pay Mrs K and Mr K £150 compensation for the trouble and upset this had 
caused them. Mrs K and Mr K agreed.  Santander disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. After reviewing all 
the evidence, I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mrs K and Mr K, but Id like to 
reassure them that I have considered everything.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review. The terms of the account also permit Santander to block an account. This means 
Santander is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
I understand that Mrs K and Mr K want Santander to explain the reason it blocked their 
accounts. I can appreciate that they would have been frustrated and upset that when they 
spoke to Santander, they werent able to find out much at all about why the bank had 
decided to block their accounts. Especially as they had complied with all of the banks 
information requests about how they were using their accounts. But Santander is under no 
obligation to tell Mrs K and Mr K the reasons behind the account block, as much as theyd 
like to know. Its also under no obligation to warn Mrs K and Mr K that it was restricting their 
accounts before placing a block on them. So, I cant say its done anything wrong or treated 
Mrs K and Mr K unfairly by not giving them this information or warning as they would have 
liked. 
Having looked at all the evidence, including the information Santander has provided this 
service, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Santander to block 
Mrs K and Mr Ks  account. Santander has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im also satisfied that in doing so Santander were complying with its 
legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mrs K and 
Mr K inconvenience and upset when it blocked their accounts, I cant say the bank did 
anything wrong and treated them unfairly in doing so. 
Banks are also entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as this is 
done fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping with the terms and 
conditions. And unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline to open an account without proper 
reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and 
existing customers fairly. In this instance the terms of Mrs K and Mr Ks accounts say that in 
certain instances Santander can close accounts with immediate notice and by providing 60 days notice. Santander wrote to Mrs K and Mr K in November 2023, to say that it was 
closing their accounts without notice. 
For Santander to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for 
immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that 
the bank did. And that it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. So, I cant 
say Santander treated Mrs K and Mr K unfairly when it closed their accounts immediately.
This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the 
customer. Just the same as if Mrs K and Mr K decided to stop banking with Santander, they 
wouldnt have to explain why. Based on what Santander has shared with this service, Im 
satisfied their actions were reasonable in the circumstances. And the banks decision to stop 
providing Mrs K and Mr K with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly. So, it 
wouldnt be appropriate to award Mrs K and Mr K any compensation since I dont find 
Santander acted inappropriately when it closed their accounts.
Mrs Ks credit card balance
When Santander closed Mrs Ks credit card in July 2023, it asked her to clear her balance 
withing seven days. In response Mrs K made a payment of just under £160 to clear her 
credit card balance only to discover some months later that she still owed a penny. Its not 
clear to me why Ms K still owed a penny. A missed balance of one penny created a chain of 
events that seems to me out of proportion. Im sure if Santander had contacted Mrs K 
immediately, she would have put things right. Instead, Mrs K had to spend time making calls 
trying to arrange to repay the penny, which was upsetting given the small amount involved 
and the fact that Santander had also previously told Mrs K she had cleared her balance and 
didnt owe anything. I think Santander could have handled things better here, so to put things 
right Santander should pay Mrs K £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter 
caused her.
In summary, its clearly caused Mrs K and Mr K trouble and upset when they werent able to 
use their accounts and Santander closed them. So, I realise they will be disappointed by my 
decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I cant 
say Santander treated Mrs K and Mr K unfairly when it blocked and closed their accounts 
So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything to resolve this aspect of Mrs K and Mr Ks 
complaint.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. Mrs K and Mr K didnt and responded with a 
number of points. In summary they said:
they didnt accept a higher offer of compensation
the credit card was paid in full in June and not July 2023
there were around 40 people in the Christmas club not ten
Mrs K provided Santander with all the information it requested, which is why 
having her account closed was such a shock
they werent given any notice that their accounts would be closed
they would never bank with Santander again
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs K and Mr K for providing their submissions, and Ive noted their comments 
regarding how many people were actually in their Christmas club.
I know it would have come as a shock to Mrs K and Mr K that Santander closed their 
accounts without notice. But Ive looked at all the evidence, including what Mrs K and Mr K 
has said, and having done so I cant conclude Santander treated them unfairly when it 
decided to close their accounts.
As I set out in my provisional decision, based on the evidence I think Santander could have 
handled things better when it closed Mrs Ks credit card  being pursued for a penny after 
having all your accounts suddenly closed would have no doubt been upsetting for Mrs K and 
M K. A missed balance of one penny created a chain of events that seems to me out of 
proportion. Mrs K had to spend time making calls trying to arrange to repay the penny, which 
was upsetting given the small amount involved and the fact that Santander had also 
previously told Mrs K she had cleared her balance and didnt owe anything. So, I remain of 
the view that Mrs K and Mr K should be paid £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused them.
In summary, I appreciate that Mrs K and Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, and I 
appreciate that they were upset and inconvenienced by Santanders actions, but I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should 
not be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above 
and form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my provisional decision is that partly uphold this complaint 
and to put things right Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs K and Mr K  £50 compensation for 
its poor communication regarding their credit card balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman