DRN-4101872
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the cash settlement made by his insurer Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) when he made a theft claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
While abroad in December 2022, Mr D was unfortunately robbed and items of jewellery and 
other items were stolen from him. He reported the robbery and made a claim to RSA for the 
stolen items. 
RSA accepted Mr Ds claim. A jewellery agent acting on behalf of RSA settled Mr Ds claim 
under the terms of the policy: to pay a cash settlement for the value it could replace the 
stolen jewellery items for. 
Mr D complained to RSA as he wanted it to pay him the value of his claim equal to the value 
of the vouchers offered, which was higher than the cash settlement. 
RSA didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it had acted within the terms of the policy. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably. 
Mr D doesnt agree. In summary he says RSA should have explained to him what it would do 
in the event of a claim when he bought the policy - if he had known about the way it settled a 
claim under a cash settlement, he wouldnt have taken out the policy. He says RSA held an 
incorrect address for him and says he doesnt remember receiving policy documents. 
So as Mr D doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy was bought through a broker. So any complaint Mr D has about the advice he 
received when this policy was sold to him will need to be addressed with the broker. 
As RSA sets the terms and conditions of the policy and dealt with the claim, my decision is 
about the complaint that it made an unfair cash settlement. 
I think the policy wording is clear that RSA can choose to settle a claim like Mr Ds by either 
providing a voucher for Mr D to buy replacement jewellery from an approved supplier - or 
receive a cash settlement. The voucher amount is higher than a cash settlement because - 
like most insurers - RSA can provide replacement items at a discounted rate with a range of 
approved suppliers. So the policy says the most it will pay as a cash settlement is what it 
would otherwise cost RSA to replace the items through its approved suppliers. 
As Mr D opted to take a cash settlement, the amount RSA paid was in line with the cash 
equivalent for the stolen items. RSA has provided this service with a breakdown of the 
voucher and cash price for each item it accepted under the claim. 
I understand there was a difference in the number of the address on the final response letter 
sent by RSA to Mr D, however this was sent to him by email. The address on the policy 
documents is the one Mr D says is correct and the one he provided us with. So I dont think 
the error by RSA in the address quoted on the email to Mr D makes a difference to the 
outcome here. 
I realise that Mr D will be very disappointed with my decision. Ive no doubt that being the 
victim of crime - and having to make a claim for items that were of sentimental value as well 
as financial value - will have caused distress and upset. 
But I think in its role as the insurer, RSA has dealt with Mr Ds claim reasonably and in line 
with the policy terms. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman