DRN-2976058
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent confidential information to 
a third party.
What happened
Ms Y says she became aware that Halifax had sent an email about her account to a third-
party person that knew her husband. She says she made a complaint, but a text message 
was also sent to the same person. Ms Y says the problem has caused trust issues with her 
husband as he was unaware of her savings account and she maintains that she didnt 
change her contact details. She says Halifax compensation offer doesnt go far enough.
Halifax says Ms Ys mortgage advisor made an application to it which contained incorrect 
details. It says the application meant Ms Ys details were automatically updated. Halifax has 
apologised for what took place and paid £250 compensation. It says no actual account 
information was sent out such as an account balance and it has updated its records.
Ms Y brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Halifax had paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount. The investigator thought limited information was sent to 
the incorrect person and the problem was sorted out within a relatively short time period.
Ms Y doesnt accept that view and says Halifax had no right to change her personal 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount. I appreciate 
Ms Y will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no issue here that Halifax made a mistake by updating Ms Ys personal details with 
a third partys details. It is not entirely clear why Halifax would rely, as in this case, on 
information provided by a mortgage broker. And its also not clear why the mortgage broker 
supplied the incorrect information in the first place. No doubt Ms Y will complain to that 
broker, as I think that was the cause of the problems here.
I have no doubt Ms Y was caused distress and inconvenience in finding out information 
about her account had been sent to a third party. I also accept that this caused trust issues 
between Ms Y and her husband. But Im satisfied the information that was sent out was 
relatively limited and is unlikely to have caused a risk of financial loss.
The key issue is the level of compensation. Im satisfied Ms Y didnt suffer any financial loss 
and that the problem was sorted out within a relatively short time period. Im also satisfied 
that Halifax has explained what took place and has apologised. I make clear to Ms Y that its 
not our role to punish a business for this type of mistakes.
Overall, Im satisfied that compensation paid of £250 is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects 
the level of this mistake and the impact it had. I dont think it possible to try and compensate 
for, as Ms Y says, a loss of trust but am satisfied the compensation level is appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman