DRN-2419891
The complaint
Mr G complains about how ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) dealt with a claim against 
his train ticket cancellation insurance policy following cancellation of his trip. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at any 
length here. In summary, Mr G bought a train ticket for travel in March 2020 to a 
conference. He was unable to travel as the UK government issued guidance to avoid all 
unnecessary travel and social contact because of covid-19 (coronavirus). Mr G made a 
claim against his policy. ERV declined his claim. 
Mr G says that ERV told him that his claim was covered and complains about how ERV 
dealt with the matter. Mr G wants reimbursement of travel costs and part of the cost of 
the conference, an apology and compensation for his distress and upset. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that ERV had 
treated Mr G unfairly. Mr G didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman consider the 
matter, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that ERV has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding 
Mr Gs complaint because I dont think that ERV treated him unfairly. I say that because:
Mr Gs policy doesnt cover every loss that he might incur. The policy 
provides cover for travel document and travel fees following cancellation of 
an insured journey following certain, specified events, which dont apply 
here. The policy doesnt cover the cost of a training course. 
The policy excludes cover for cancellation of an insured journey if 
cancellation is due to an outbreak of a contagious disease and the 
Government has imposed a ban on travel. So, Mr Gs policy doesnt cover 
the situation in which Mr G found himself. I dont think that ERV acted 
unfairly in relying on the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr G says that he didnt read the policy terms and conditions but that doesnt 
alter the outcome here. 
The rules under which this service operates set out the matters we can 
investigate and dont include complaint handling. So, I cant consider Mr Gs 
concerns about how ERV handled his complaint. But I can consider the part 
of Mr Gs complaint about how ERV handled his claim. 
Im afraid theres nothing to support Mr Gs recollection that in phone call on 
5 May 2020, ERV told him that his claim was covered. ERV cant find a 
recording of a phone call from or to Mr G on that date. Its not unusual for a 
business to be unable to trace a call. Ive listened to the recording of Mr Gs 
phone call to ERV on 13 March 2020. I dont think that ERV told him that his 
claim was valid. The person Mr G spoke with guided him through how to 
make a claim and provided information and documentation. I think that ERV 
dealt with Mr G politely and professionally. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont think that I can fairly conclude 
that ERV treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably in handling his claim. I can 
see that there was some delay in Mr G receiving a substantive response to 
his claim but, given the extraordinary events, I dont think I can fairly say that 
ERV was at fault.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman