DRN-4165163
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained about how Society of Lloyds (SOL) dealt with a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B contacted SOL to make a claim following a water leak at their home. SOL 
accepted the claim and contractors were appointed to repair the damage. Several issues 
arose during the claim, including a contractor damaging a pipe, which caused further 
damage, and an unsuitable replacement floor being fitted.
When Mr B and Mrs B complained, SOL accepted there had been issues with the claim. It 
said it would appoint a new contractor to carry out the repairs to the floor. It also offered a 
total of £1,250 compensation because its overall customer service had fallen below the 
standard it should have provided.
Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
SOL should pay a cash settlement for the work to be completed based on an assessment 
previously carried out by an engineer to deal with the outstanding works. He said he hadnt 
seen evidence to show SOL was responsible for damage to the ensuite. He said the 
compensation SOL had already paid was reasonable in the circumstances and it didnt need 
to pay anything further.
As Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
My decision deals with issues up to the date of SOLs response to the complaint, which was 
dated 22 November 2022. Im aware Mr B and Mrs B have also raised concerns about 
issues since that date. However, they dont form part of the timeframe for this complaint, so I 
cant consider them.
This has clearly been a very lengthy claim and one that included SOLs contractors causing 
additional damage while they were carrying out repairs. Mr B and Mrs B said the flooring 
wasnt done to a satisfactory standard, as it was uneven. Ive looked at a report arranged by 
SOL. This said no records were provided of the condition of the subfloor before replacement, 
but that the contractor had said the floor had been out of level in a number of areas, which it 
had tried to smooth out. It noted that attempts to level the floor had not been satisfactorily 
achieved due to the condition of the beam and block, which was a structural defect at the 
time the property was built. The report also noted that the flooring installed was a floating 
floor, which was unsuitable for kitchens to be installed on top of and that it hadnt been 
installed in line with the manufacturers instructions or recommendations, due to the pre-
existing issues. SOL later accepted that the flooring shouldnt have been fitted. It agreed to 
replace the flooring, although it noted that if Mr B and Mrs B selected flooring that was 
unsuitable for an uneven subfloor that Mr B and Mrs B would need to pay the costs related 
to the uneven floor. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. I will comment on the 
way I think the claim should be settled later in my decision.
Mr B and Mrs B also said SOL damaged the kitchen. A company appointed by SOL said 
when the kitchen was installed back they didnt leave correct gap around cooker and units 
and doors are scorched. So, I think SOL needs to pay for this to be repaired. Im aware Mr 
B and Mrs B had paid the contractor to replace the kitchen and were unhappy with the 
quality of some of the work. However, this was private work and didnt form part of the claim. 
So, I currently intend to say SOL doesnt need to pay for any repairs to the kitchen that are 
solely due to issues with the private work.
Mr B and Mrs B have also said SOLs contractors used an upstairs bathroom without 
permission while they were on holiday and caused a significant water leak. The contractor 
dealt with the leak and the resulting damage. Mr B and Mrs B have said SOL should pay for 
a replacement ensuite bathroom, which they paid privately for the contractor to replace. Ive 
looked at the invoice and this showed that the contractor supplied and fitted a whole new 
ensuite bathroom. I havent seen evidence that a new bathroom was required as the result of 
the leak. Where a bathroom is removed as part of the claim, I would normally expect it to be 
refitted and I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay for a new bathroom. I also dont think SOL 
should pay for a new bathroom as a form of compensation for the inconvenience Mr B and 
Mrs B have said they were caused. This is because, even though Im aware of Mr B and Mrs 
Bs strong views on this, I havent seen evidence that persuades me the contractor was 
more likely than not responsible for the ensuite leak. But even if I did think that, Im not of the 
view that paying nearly £3,000 for a whole new bathroom would be a reasonable form of 
compensation.
Mr B and Mrs B have said they want a cash settlement for the outstanding works. In the 
circumstances, I think that is reasonable. So, I currently intend to say SOL should settle 
these works based on the full assessment and estimate that was previously prepared for this 
purpose. Due to the passage of time, SOL should pay an additional 10% on top of this 
amount to account for increased costs. 
Mr B and Mrs B are also concerned about alternative accommodation during the works and 
that items will need to be stored. So, I currently intend to say that SOL should pay for one 
weeks alternative accommodation, subject to Mr B and Mrs B providing it with evidence of 
reasonable costs. If alternative accommodation is required for longer than that, SOL may 
assess the need for this accommodation and whether it should make a further payment. I 
also currently intend to say that SOL should pay the reasonable costs of storing items such 
as parts of the kitchen, carpets and furniture, subject to Mr B and Mrs B providing evidence 
of reasonable costs for this.
Ive also thought about compensation. Mr B and Mrs B have clearly been affected over a 
prolonged period of time by this claim and related issues. SOL have already offered Mr B 
and Mrs B £1,250 compensation because of the issues identified, which includes a 
contractor drilling through a pipe early in the claim, which led to additional damage. Having 
thought carefully about everything that happened, I think the compensation offered was 
reasonable in the circumstances. In my view, it is a substantial amount of compensation that 
is in line with the amount I would have said SOL should pay if it hadnt already offered it. 
SOL should ensure that it has made the full payment to Mr B and Mrs B.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 27 June 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
SOL agreed with my decision to pay for alternative accommodation. It said it would pay for 
up to four weeks based on a budget hotel or property rental. It said it would only pay for alternative accommodation to put right its poor workmanship and that any private work or 
work not covered by the insurer wouldnt be covered by it. It also said it wouldnt disagree to 
the 10% uplift to the costs of the works.
Mr B and Mrs B also replied. They provided a number of additional documents along with 
some further comments. I have summarised the comments:
They said they were desperate to show SOLs wrongdoings. They also wanted to make 
clear that most of the payments SOL made to them were gestures of goodwill.
They had only asked for a cash settlement to enable them to be in control of the quality 
of the works and the finish and to avoid having to use SOLs contractor again.
They were in rented accommodation for six months and then lived in a caravan for 
another month.
The ensuite leak was a mystery, but SOL was guilty. The area was out of bounds and 
empty pipes dont flood. Mr B and Mrs B were told a temporary repair had to be carried 
out but, to make sure, the floor and shower had to be removed.
For the kitchen, the work schedule clearly showed that units and worktops needed to be 
put into storage. The kitchen had been fitted new about 10 years before and it was still in 
excellent condition.
They continued to feel forced to replace or pay for new kitchen units as SOL had 
suggested it wouldnt need to pay for fitting.
The kitchen units had been stored on site. Mr B and Mrs B werent living there at the 
time, but SOL therefore took responsibility for them. Mr B and Mrs B felt so desperate 
that they agreed to new units. But they shouldnt have been put in that situation.
The flood in the bathroom was so bad that SOL installed dryers, which hadnt been the 
case earlier in the claim.
The contractors also broke the toilet seat and lid. Mr B and Mrs B wanted to provide all 
the information so I had a true picture of SOLs attitude towards peoples possessions. 
The contractors couldnt wait for the removal company so moved the fridge and freezer 
and scraped and dented them. They said SOL had paid for a new fridge-freezer and 
toilet seat but that it clearly showed the lack of skills and appreciation for other peoples 
property.
The schedule of works clearly stated that a levelling compound should be laid. They 
questioned why, if the floor base had an issue, SOL didnt have any notes of this. If SOL 
knew there were floor base issues, they questioned why the work continued.
They questioned how SOL would deal with a subsidence claim and whether it would 
have acted as unprofessionally.
They said the contractor had threatened Mrs B and that this hadnt been challenged by 
SOL as the working relationship was far too close.
They said there were issues with the kitchen installation and that the hot and cold pipe in 
the ensuite had been fitted the wrong way round and his own plumber had to fix it.
The poor level of skills and workmanship seemed acceptable to SOL.
Mr B and Mrs B had tried to get an independent surveyor involved, but when they 
explained why they needed a survey, surveyors said they wouldnt get involved and that 
Mr B and Mrs B should give up as they wouldnt get anywhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that Ive considered the comments from both parties. If I dont cover all of them 
here, it is because I have focussed on what I think I need to consider in order to make a fair and reasonable decision. I am also aware of Mr B and Mrs Bs continued strong views about 
their claim and the actions of SOL. I considered all of their comments when I made my 
provisional decision and the comments they have now submitted. I have also looked at the 
additional documents they have provided.
I was already aware of the extent of the damage Mr B and Mrs B have said SOL was 
responsible for and their concern about what happened in the ensuite bathroom and to their 
kitchen. I remain of the view that what I said SOL should do to deal with the outstanding 
issues at the property was reasonable and, as some of the work was private work, SOL 
wasnt responsible for that, including the costs or quality of the private work.
Ive also thought about SOLs comments. It has said that it is willing to pay up to four weeks 
alternative accommodation while works related specifically to the claim take place. I havent 
changed what I require SOL to do in terms of paying for alternative accommodation and 
storage, as what I have said doesnt prevent it from paying for up to four weeks, subject to it 
being satisfied that it should pay those costs.
Having again considered what happened, including Mr B and Mrs Bs additional comments, I 
also remain of the view that the £1,250 already offered by SOL as compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
SOL should pay for the outstanding works based on the estimate previously prepared for 
that purpose and pay an additional 10% on top of this amount. It should also pay for one 
weeks alternative accommodation and assess any requests for accommodation beyond that 
period. It should also pay storage costs and ensure it has paid the £1,250 compensation it 
previously offered.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Society of Lloyds to:
Pay for the outstanding works based on the estimate previously prepared for this 
purpose.
Pay an additional 10% on top of that amount to account for any increased costs.
Pay for one weeks alternative accommodation, subject to Mr B and Mrs B providing 
suitable evidence of reasonable costs.
Assess any requests for alternative accommodation beyond one week to consider 
whether it should pay for this.
Pay storage costs, subject to Mr B and Mrs B providing it with suitable evidence of 
reasonable costs.
Ensure it has paid the £1,250 compensation it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman