DRN-3947661
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice Pension Advice Specialists Limited (PAS) gave him to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr L to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ls.
What happened
In 2018 Mr L spoke with a financial advice firm (which Ill refer to as Firm R). Mr L met with 
Firm R in August 2018 and it completed a fact-find. Amongst other things it noted that Mr L 
was 56 years old and divorced. He had stopped working the previous year owing to 
ill-health. He owned his home which was worth around £150,000 and had an outstanding 
mortgage of £78,000. He owned two buy-to-let properties with a combined value of £370,000 
with outstanding mortgages of around £80,000 in total. He received around £500 a month in 
rental income. He had savings of £6,000. He had regular outgoings of £1,610 a month and 
had a desired income of £1,760 a month. He received £348 a month income from benefits.
As Mr L wanted to discuss transferring his DB scheme to a personal pension and Firm R 
didnt hold the relevant permissions from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise 
on the transfer out of his DB scheme, it referred him to PAS.
PAS gathered information about Mr Ls DB scheme and obtained a transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS). His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £214,517. 
At age 57 it would pay him a full yearly pension of £4,307 or tax free cash (TFC) of £21,545 
and a reduced yearly pension of £3,231. If Mr L took his pension benefits at the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65 then it would pay him a yearly pension of £11,684 or TFC of 
£55,014 and a reduced pension of £8,252. PAS assessed Mr Ls attitude to risk as seven out 
of ten, with one being low and ten being high risk, it referred to this as highest medium.
In September 2018 PAS sent Mr L its suitability report setting out its advice. It noted that, 
based on Mr Ls discussions with Firm R, his objectives were:
Immediate access to funds.
Owing to ill-health he believed his life expectancy was 10 to 15 years, and he wanted 
to leave any funds left over from his pension as a legacy for his two adult children. 
Flexibility of drawdown, as required.
PAS said that in order to match the benefits from the DB scheme at age 65 would require 
investment growth (critical yield) of 10.47% a year if Mr L took a full pension. It estimated 
that, based on a growth rate in the SIPP of 5% a year, the SIPP couldnt match the benefits 
from the DB scheme at age 65. For retirement at age 57, the critical yield was 20.46% if Mr L 
didnt take TFC and 2.1% if he did. PAS produced a number of cashflow models that showed 
how Mr L might use his money in a drawdown arrangement from a SIPP.
PAS said that Mr L wanted to take TFC immediately to pay off a buy-to-let mortgage which 
would give him extra income. It said that if he took his benefits at age 57 then he could take 
TFC of £52,300 from the SIPP. It recommended that he should transfer his DB funds to a 
named SIPP provider chosen by Firm R.
Mr L accepted PAS recommendation to transfer his funds into the named SIPP. 
Mr L complained to PAS in 2022. In short he said its advice wasnt suitable for him. He said 
that PAS hadn't sought information from his DB scheme about whether he had an 
entitlement to enhanced ill-health benefits from the scheme. PAS replied. It didnt uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. Amongst other things it said neither Firm R nor Mr L had made it aware of 
the possibility of enhanced ill-health benefits from his scheme. PAS said its advice was 
suitable for Mr Ls circumstances.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didnt think PAS 
had dealt with Mr L fairly and said it should pay compensation. PAS didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint 
was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in responding to it, both Mr L and PAS have made a number of 
detailed points. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every issue raised. 
Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key matters at the heart of Mr Ls complaint 
and the reasons for my decision. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PAS actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PAS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ls best 
interests overall. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in 
his best interests.
Financial viability and capacity for loss 
PAS carried out a TVAS (as required by the regulator) showing how much Mr Ls pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr L was 56 at the time of the advice and had already stopped working. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Ls benefits at age 57 was 20.46% if he took a full pension and 2.1% if 
he took TFC and a reduced pension. If he retired at age 67 the critical yields were 10.47% 
and 8.21% respectively.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.25% a year if Mr L took his benefits at 57 and 3.5% if he took them at 65. Ive kept in 
mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ls 
medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. So, if Mr L chose to take TFC and a 
pension at age 57 then he was likely to receive a broadly comparable level of benefits to 
the DB scheme at retirement. But, if he didnt take TFC or deferred taking his benefits he 
was likely to be worse off by transferring. But assuming Mr L took TFC and his pension at 
57 there would be little point in him giving up the guarantees available through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. So Id need 
to see other evidence that persuaded me a transfer was in Mr Ls best interests.
PAS has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr L would have been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. It provided six such models and four of those show 
that if Mr L took income equivalent to his DB scheme, the funds would last him to between 
the ages of 81 and 96. However, each of those models would seem to show a shortfall 
compared to Mr Ls desired income. And, critically, PAS models also show that, if Mr L took 
his desired income of £1,760 a month by drawdown, then his funds would be depleted by 
ages 64 or 65 (depending on whether or not he took TFC). That is a couple of years before 
he would be able to draw his state retirement pension at age 67. So he would have a 
significant income shortfall and no access to pension benefits - other than his state pension 
 thereafter.Further, as well as Mr Ls income requirement it's also important to consider his capacity for 
loss. As I've said above, apart from state pension Mr L had no other pension provision. He 
had limited savings and, while he did have assets in the form of his buy-to-let properties, 
the rental income from those wasnt guaranteed and their value wasnt immediately liquid if 
Mr L needed cash, as hed first need to sell the properties.
In fact its notable that PAS said that one of Mr Ls objectives was to use his TFC to pay off 
the funds from a buy-to-let mortgage. But giving up guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme 
in order to achieve that might not have been in Mr Ls best interests. And its difficult to see 
how PAS assessed this. 
When Firm R completed the fact-find form with Mr L it didnt complete any detail about what 
Mr Ls regular outgoings were. That is it left most of the form blank and simply recorded 
that his total outgoings were £1,760. So it's not clear how PAS decided that Mr L had 
outgoings of £1,610 but preferred an income of £1,760. And its not clear if those regular 
outgoings included repayment of the mortgages on Mr Ls buy-to-let properties. 
It follows that I dont know how much Mr Ls repayments for his buy-to-let mortgages were 
at the time. Nor has PAS presented information about how much more Mr Ls income 
would increase by as a result of using TFC to pay off a mortgage. So its difficult to analyse 
whether using his TFC for this purpose was in his best interests. 
Also I've seen no evidence that PAS discussed alternative strategies with Mr L. For 
example, rather than diverting his DB funds to pay off a buy-to-let mortgage  to increase 
his income that way  PAS might have been better placed to advise Mr L to sell one or both 
of his buy-to-let properties. That could potentially have released a gross sum of around 
£290,000 for Mr L. He could then have reinvested any net profit or used the surplus to 
provide him with an income. That would have then given him further choices in terms of 
how and when he accessed his DB funds. For example he could have either taken those at 
age 57 or left them untouched until the schemes normal retirement age of 65. In that 
manner his DB income wouldnt have been reduced by the schemes early retirement 
factors, which would have been the case if he took benefits at any point before he turned 
65. But theres no evidence that PAS put this to Mr L. 
I accept that by transferring out of his DB scheme Mr L might have been able to increase his 
overall income because hed be able to retain more of the rental income once he paid off 
one or both mortgages. But as I've indicated above, rental income isn't necessarily 
guaranteed. However, his DB funds were guaranteed and that income would increase each 
year in line with the relevant indexation. A return he stood to lose some or all of by moving it 
into a SIPP which had no guarantees of any return whatsoever. 
Also, in my opinion, going ahead with that transfer meant that Mr L would be exposed to fees 
and charges unnecessarily. For example Firm R was charging him a 3% transfer fee for the 
initial advice and 1% of the fund value for ongoing advice. The SIPP provider would also 
charge Mr L: £400 to set up the SIPP; a £400 yearly charge; and 2.15% of the fund value for 
ten years  reducing to 1.55% thereafter. Those are charges that Mr L wouldn't have had to 
pay if he remained in the DB scheme. But they would potentially continue to reduce the size 
of Mr Ls investment and his income in retirement. And, as I don't think Mr L would be 
materially better off by transferring his DB funds when he did, I dont think PAS advice was 
suitable for him. So, as Mr L was likely to be worse off in retirement by transferring, doing so wasnt in his 
best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. PAS itself acknowledged that it was unlikely that Mr L could 
match the benefits from his DB scheme by transferring the funds to a SIPP. In those 
circumstances its all the more important that the other reasons for transferring were 
sufficiently compelling. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
PAS has pointed out that Mr L had health conditions which motivated him to want to take his 
scheme benefits early and to use the maximum TFC that he could. I dont doubt that was the 
information that Mr L gave. But PAS role should have been to advise Mr L on what was in 
his best interests, not simply to arrange what he said he wanted at that moment in time 
without carefully examining what his needs, rather than simply his desires, were. And while I 
can see why the prospect of access to a large sum of money to potentially pay off a 
mortgage might have been attractive to Mr L, that doesn't mean it was in his best interests. 
So I don't think PAS should have recommended that course of action to Mr L without fully 
considering what other options he might have had including immediately selling one or both 
of his buy-to-let properties. Alternatively  for example  consolidating his loans to make 
repayments more affordable and to maximise his rental income. But theres little evidence it 
explored these alternatives.  
Further, I'm not persuaded that PAS gathered all the information it needed in order to fully 
advise Mr L. When bringing his complaint Mr L said that, in 2017, the DB scheme trustees 
gave him a quote for enhanced DB benefits because of his ill-health. Mr L said PAS didnt 
explore whether or not this was something he would still have been entitled to when it gave 
its advice. In contrast I've noted that PAS suitability report says Mr L had confirmed that 
hed asked the trustees whether he was entitled to an ill-health enhancement but been told 
that he wasn't. Its not clear where this evidence came from as it's not referred to in the fact-
find. But, given Mr L's ill-health, I think this is something that PAS should have found out for 
certain. That's because if Mr L was entitled to an enhanced ill-health benefit from his DB 
scheme  as he apparently had been one year earlier then this could also have affected the 
suitability of PAS advice. But theres no evidence it did that.
Death benefits
PAS recorded that as Mr L was divorced the spouses benefit available from his DB scheme 
was of little value to him. And he wanted any remaining pension to pass to his adult children 
on his death. It said that wasnt something Mr L could achieve by remaining in his DB 
scheme.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr L. Thats because whatever 
was left within his SIPP at the date of his death would be passed on to his family. And, if that 
happened soon after the transfer then that would likely be a significant sum.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr L might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. 
But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr L was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index 
linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his family that 
they may not need for many years to come. Furthermore, PAS cashflow models showed that if Mr L took large deductions from his SIPP in the earlier years of his retirement, then he 
was likely to deplete that fund entirely before he reached state pension age. And, in those 
circumstances, there would be very little for Mr L to live on, yet alone leave as a legacy for 
his family. So, I don't think the potential for higher death benefits was something that was 
worthwhile Mr L giving up the guarantees from his DB scheme for. 
.
Summary
I dont doubt that the opportunity for a higher TFC sum on offer through a SIPP and potential 
for higher death benefits would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But PAS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr L might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was 
to really understand what Mr L needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice PAS gave was suitable. Mr L was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr L was unlikely to be any better off and in 
my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I think PAS should have advised Mr L to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr L would've gone ahead anyway, against PAS 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against PAS advice. I say this because Mr L was an 
inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision. So, if PAS had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think PAS should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr L whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect.Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr L.
For clarity, Mr L retired at 56, so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
PAS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect PAS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, PAS should pay the compensation if possible 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, PAS 
should pay it directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date PAS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further PAS must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PAS to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pension Advice 
Specialists Limited to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Pension Advice Specialists Limited to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Pension Advice Specialists Limited to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Pension Advice Specialists Limited pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pension Advice 
Specialists Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman