DRN-3386978
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed his account and registered a Cifas 
marker against him without due cause. 
What happened
In May and June 2020, four payments were made into Mr Ms Lloyds account totalling 
approximately £300. The funds were removed via ATM on the same day that the last 
payments were received. The sending bank contacted Lloyds on 12 June 2020 to request 
that the funds were returned as the sender had been the victim of fraud. Lloyds blocked Mr 
Ms account and completed a review. Following this, Lloyds made the decision to close Mr 
Ms account with 60 days notice and to refer him to Cifas to register him on the National 
Fraud Database. 
Mr M contacted Lloyds. He explained that his young son had asked him to use his account 
to receive some money as he was selling his games console online and he could not use his 
own account as he was having problems with it as he had previously had his account details 
stolen so his account had been closed. Mr M said he told his son he could use his account 
on this occasion, but that he would need to rectify the problems he was having with his 
account. He said that he noticed there were multiple payments and saw the reference was 
mattress  a seemingly unrelated reference  so he spoke to his son to ask why this was. 
His son told him it was because the buyer didnt want their parents to know they had bought 
PlayStation games. He said he had withdrawn the funds and handed them to his son. His 
son told him he had no proof that he had sent the games console, as them handed it to the 
buyer in person.
My M complained to Lloyds, but they said that as he allowed his account to be used to 
receive and withdraw fraudulently obtained funds, the Cifas loading and account closure with 
notice were fair. So Mr M complained to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed what had happened. They felt the account closure was fair 
and reasonable as Mr M had been given 60 days notice in line with the terms and conditions 
of his account, so he didnt recommend that Lloyds should reopen Mr Ms account or do 
anything further relating to this. They did recommend that the Cifas marker should be 
removed as they felt the evidence showed that Mr M was unlikely to have been complicit in 
any fraud  he genuinely believed the funds related to a legitimate sale of a games console 
that his son had sold. But whilst he recommended the removal, he thought that Lloyds had 
acted fairly in loading the marker in the first instance based on the evidence and information 
available to them at the time  so they didnt recommend that any payment was due from 
Lloyds in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr M had suffered as a result of the 
marker. He said it was only the additional supporting evidence that Mr M had sent our 
service that meant he was able to recommend the marker be removed  and this had not 
been available to Lloyds when they made and reviewed their decisions. 
Lloyds agreed to our investigators opinion of the case, and have since removed the Cifas 
marker. 
But Mr M remained dissatisfied. He felt the bank had acted rashly in blocking and closing his 
account, and didnt give him the opportunity to defend himself or provide evidence in support 
of any defence. He explained the serious impact this had on his health, well-being, his time, 
his career and his finances. He said he had also lost contact with his son as a result of this. 
He was pleased the Cifas marker was being removed, but he felt a fair resolution to the case 
would also involve: 
A formal letter of apology from Lloyds;
For Lloyds to reopen his accounts, with new security details; and
A substantial payment in recognition of the impact the account closure and Cifas 
marker had on his life. 
Our investigator remained of the opinion that Lloyds had acted fairly based on the 
information it had at the time  so as he didnt think they had made a mistake then, his 
recommendations remained the same. As Mr M didnt agree, his complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Ive considered Mr Ms concerns about his accounts being blocked and closed, and Lloyds 
subsequent refusal to reopen them. Lloyds were quite right to place blocks on the account 
when they received a report that it had been used to receive fraudulent funds. This is what I 
would expect them to do as a regulated financial business. So I think they acted responsibly 
here. 
Lloyds can close an account with immediate effect if they reasonably believe it is being used 
for fraudulent purposes. But in this case Lloyds gave Mr M 60 days notice prior to closing his 
account. This notice period is in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and is 
designed to allow customers time to organise their finances before the account is closed. So 
I think Lloyds acted fairly here. And I think it is for Lloyds to decide whether or not they wish 
to do business with Mr M in the future here, so I wont be asking them to reopen his 
accounts. 
As both parties have agreed that the Cifas marker should be removed, and this has now 
been done, I will not need to decide on this matter. But I think it is important to explain that I 
agree with our investigator that based on the evidence and information available to Lloyds at 
the time they loaded the Cifas marker, and maintained that it should remain in place, Lloyds 
did not make a mistake. Ill explain why.
The type of Cifas marker that Lloyds asked to be applied is for misuse of facility  relating to 
the account being used to receive and remove fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, they were not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M was guilty of a 
fraud or financial crime, but they needed to be able to show that there were grounds for 
more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
So, they needed to have evidence to show that Mr M received the funds as a result of fraud, 
and that on balance it was most likely he had been deliberately dishonest in doing so. It is 
not in dispute that Mr Ms account was used to receive fraudulent funds. The sending 
account holder was tricked into sending the funds as the result of a scam. And whilst we do now know that Mr M was not complicit in this  I can understand why Lloyds believed he had 
been deliberately dishonest at the time. Mr M had withdrawn the funds from his account  by 
his own admission. And he had not provided them any evidence in support of his testimony 
that he had simply been trying to do his son a favour, and knew nothing of the provenance of 
these funds beyond what hed been told. So I think Lloyds were entitled at that time to 
conclude that Mr M had been deliberately dishonest in the receipt and removal of those 
funds. 
Since coming to our service, Mr M has provided considerable and detailed evidence in 
support of his testimony. And whilst I dont need to provide a finding on this, I will say for 
completeness that I do agree that the evidence suggests that Mr M was an unwitting victim 
in all of this  rather than someone who was deliberately dishonest and complicit in the 
scam. So I agree that the fair outcome in this case was for the Cifas marker to be removed. 
I do appreciate that Mr M has suffered a great deal as a result of this unfortunate series of 
events, but I cannot say that the fault here lies with Lloyds. And so now that the Cifas marker 
has been removed, I cannot fairly and reasonably conclude that they must issue a formal 
apology letter, nor pay any money in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr M 
suffered here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that as Lloyds Bank PLC have demonstrated that the Cifas marker has 
been removed, they are not required to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman