DRN-3947355
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when he 
asked it to process a chargeback.
What happened
Mr D booked a family ski holiday in January 2020, and he used his Nationwide credit card to 
purchase lift passes to a value of £1,716.42. The holiday shouldve commenced on 
14 March, but the day before, he was notified that the authorities had closed the piste 
because of the pandemic. The merchant offered to extend the lift passes to the end of the 
following season, but Mr D couldnt be certain that family commitments would make it 
possible to rearrange the holiday, so he contacted Nationwide to see whether he could seek 
reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. He told us:
he first contacted Nationwide in early April 2020 to find out whether hed be able to 
make a successful claim under the chargeback scheme;
on 30 April he notified it of his claim and supplied the details and documentation it 
needed in order to progress his claim;
it wasnt until January 2021  some nine months later  that Nationwide refunded his 
money;
in the interim hed had to provide Nationwide with copies of the documentation on a 
number of occasions because it either mis-placed it; incorrectly closed down his 
claim, or simply re-requested that he send in the information hed already provided;
he experienced months of evasion, avoidance, dilatory administration and the most 
dismal performance;
he raised a formal complaint with Nationwide and asked it to pay him nearly £900 
compensation in recognition of the poor service hed received;
Nationwide acknowledged the poor service it had provided, but it only offered him 
£200 compensation  it said this was appropriate and in line with what it had paid in 
similar cases;
hes asked Nationwide to provide him with a redacted example of a similar complaint 
to demonstrate that £200 is appropriate  but its refused to do so;
in light of the significant problems hes encountered and the manner in which 
Nationwide has behaved, it should pay him compensation totalling £1,000.
Nationwide confirmed it had upheld Mr Ds original complaint and it apologised for the 
frustration Mr D had experienced and the service hed received. It acknowledged that the 
service it had given Mr D was poor and wasnt of the standard that it would normally expect. 
And it offered him £200 to say sorry for the distress caused and the time taken.
Mr D rejected Nationwides offer. He said his claim shouldve been resolved by June 2020 
and hed endured eight months of administration and worry as to whether his money would 
be returned. He says £200 is a paltry amount and he wants compensation equating to 50% 
of the value of the transaction being claimed.
Nationwide told us its operations were badly affected by the pandemic and that all categories 
of dispute were very seriously delayed, and it apologised for the inconvenience its customers 
experienced but said this had been outside its control. It admitted it had all the information it 
needed from Mr D by 24 June 2020, but that confusion over the different aspects of his claim 
resulted in it being, initially, incorrectly declined and then closed on more than one occasion. 
It confirmed the refund was applied to Mr Ds account on 26 January 2021.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought the compensation offered by 
Nationwide was fair and in line with what this Service would expect to see in similar cases. 
He said that the service received from Nationwide shouldve been better, but he thought the 
proposed settlement was fair in the circumstances and he didnt think Nationwide needed to 
do anything more.
The investigator also acknowledged the impact the pandemic had had on Nationwides 
operations and the operational challenges it faced during this period. And, taking all this into 
account, he thought the £200 compensation offered by Nationwide was fair and in line with 
what he wouldve recommended.
Mr D disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr D says the substantial distress, 
upset and worry warrants £1,000 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr D received from Nationwide. This is because although Mr D paid for lift passes that 
he wasnt able to use, both parties have confirmed that the chargeback was ultimately 
successful, and the money was credited to Mr Ds bank account in January 2021.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Nationwide to ask for a payment Mr D made 
to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr D paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr D wasnt able to make use of the services hed paid for  the 
piste had been closed because of the pandemic, and the lift passes hed purchased were of 
no use to him or his family. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to 
expect Nationwide to raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one 
that is covered within Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id 
have expected Nationwide to have resolved this chargeback far sooner than it did.
Although it had all the relevant information by June 2020 at the very latest, it took a further 
seven months to process and resolve Mr Ds claim. It made a number of mistakes in the 
intervening months; re-requesting information it already held and incorrectly closing down 
Mr Ds case.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr D. 
Hed booked a family holiday, which was cancelled at the very last minute, and although the 
merchant had offered to extend the lift passes to the end of the following season, this was of 
no practical benefit to Mr D and his family. So, from what hes told us, his experience 
wouldve caused him anxiety and worry considering the not insignificant sum involved.
But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the merchant who 
caused the initial problems here as it didnt automatically refund Mr D his money back at the 
outset.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr D first contacted Nationwide, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquiries from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Nationwide has already offered Mr D £200 in recognition of the mistakes it 
made when he first contacted it and the poor service it provided over the following months. 
And although I wouldve expected Nationwide to identify vulnerable customers who may 
need more immediate support and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mr D fell 
into this category.
Mr D says the compensation hes been given isnt enough in view of the time it took and the 
fact he had to repeatedly send duplicate information to Nationwide. Although I understand 
the frustration this mustve caused him, we dont usually make awards for a consumers time 
or effort in dealing with a claim. This is because its part of a consumers responsibility when 
making a claim to pursue the issues to a conclusion.
And its important for me to explain to Mr D that my role isnt to punish businesses for their 
performance or behaviour  thats the role of the regulator. My role is to look at problems 
that a consumer may have experienced and see if the business, in this case Nationwide, has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award compensation that we 
think is fair and reasonable.
In this particular case, Im satisfied that Mr D experienced both delays and poor service in 
connection with his chargeback claim, so Im going to require that Nationwide now pay the 
compensation it had previously offered. I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything 
more.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr D the compensation it offered him, if 
it hasnt already done so. Thats the £200 in recognition of the poor service it provided. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think 
Nationwide Building Society needs to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr D £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman