DRN-3103972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost, which he believes was the 
result of a scam.
Background
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to be as follows.
Mr M has said he saw a sofa set he was interested in buying. He said hed found the 
company on social media, saw they had a large following, celebrity endorsements and that 
there were press articles about the company in the news. Mr M made enquiries with the 
company about the cost of the sofa he liked, which it provided. A few months later, Mr M 
contacted the company again to place an order and discuss specific measurements of the 
set in more detail.
Mr M was told delivery would take 12 weeks and was provided the companys bank account 
details to make a bank transfer to. As this was during the Covid pandemic and the set was 
being made bespoke to Mr Ms requirements, Mr M considered the timescales to be 
reasonable and made a payment by mobile bank transfer to the company for £3,089.
When 12 weeks had passed, Mr M asked the company for an update and was told orders 
were delayed by around four weeks. Mr M waited again, but when he tried to contact the 
company at the end of this four week period, they were no longer responding to emails and 
their phone lines werent active.
Mr M looked online and saw reviews left by other customers whod had the same 
experience. At this point Mr M realised he may have been the victim of a scam and 
contacted Monzo to raise a claim.
Monzo looked into things and declined his claim, as it did not believe Mr M had taken 
sufficient steps to satisfy himself that he was paying a legitimate company. It also said it 
provided a warning to Mr M when he was making the payment online, advising him to ensure 
this wasnt a scam.
Mr M disagreed and referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into things. He didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, as he considered this was a dispute between 
Mr M and the seller. In summary, he said this was because; the company Mr M paid 
appeared to be a legitimate business, which had provided a number of customers with 
furniture that it had committed to and the seller was detailed on Companies House.
Overall, our investigator said he couldnt safely say that the furniture company set out with 
the intent to defraud Mr M. He didnt think there was anything about the payment Mr M made 
that ought to have caused Monzo concern that Mr M may have been at risk of financial 
harm. Our investigator also considered whether there was any other form of protection for 
the type of payment Mr M made, but he didnt think there was. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, he didnt agree that this wasnt 
a scam and maintained that Monzo shouldve done more to protect him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about Monzos actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Monzo should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I appreciate this has had a 
significant impact on him, both financially and emotionally. Its understandable, having lost 
such a significant sum, why Mr M feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases 
where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which 
Monzo has committed to follow (although it isnt a signatory) and was in force at the time Mr 
M made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances of the payment Mr M made and, in particular, whether Monzo 
ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite 
explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Having considered everything provided by both Mr M and Monzo, Ive not seen anything that 
I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this 
appears to be a case of a legitimate business failing and not being able to honour its 
customers orders as a result of going into liquidation.
Its clear the agreement Mr M entered into with the company did not go as planned and he 
has not received what he was expecting. And I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly about what has happened. There may even have been some sharp practice in 
terms of how the company was operated. But I cant safely say with any certainty, that the 
company set out with an intent to defraud.The company Mr M paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated in 
2018 and whose principle activity was the manufacturing of soft furnishings and the retail of 
furniture. And Im mindful that it appears the company had a large following, with many 
reviews indicating other customers had orders successfully completed.
I understand that this company was brought to the attention of Trading Standards, but Im 
not aware of the outcome of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other 
authority, which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud. Based on 
what Ive seen, while I cant rule out there may have been some questionable sales tactics, 
Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud.
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that has fallen into liquidation and 
subsequently been unable to meet its obligations to its customers. So, on balance, taking 
into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Mr M has 
been a victim of a scam or that the company he made his payments to was operating 
fraudulently.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Monzo 
to refund the money Mr M has lost, as I dont think Monzo treated Mr M unfairly when it 
decided not to refund him. And I dont think there was anything else Monzo could have done 
to prevent his loss. I appreciate Mr M thinks Monzo shouldve done more to protect him 
when making the payment, but as I havent determined that this payment was a scam, I cant 
conclude that Monzo shouldve done more before processing the payment or that this 
wouldve made a difference, based on the research Mr M had already conducted on the 
company to satisfy himself that it was legitimate.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. But overall, for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask Monzo to refund the money Mr M has lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman