DRN-3849047
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC failed to provide him with a closing 
balance when he closed his bank account. 
What happened
Mr D lives abroad. He said he called Tesco in 2018 to close his account and he asked for 
the closing balance of £1,647.42 to be sent to him. He said Tesco confirmed it would send 
him a cheque. Mr D said he never heard from Tesco again until he received the cheque 
dated in 2018 in 2022. 
Mr D said when he contacted Tesco in 2022 it initially said it would reissue the cheque. Then 
Tesco said it had paid the balance in 2018 into another pre-paid account Mr D had. Mr D 
said he never had this pre-paid account and further he never gave details of this pre-paid 
account to Tesco in 2018. 
Tesco said that Mr D had phoned it on 15 June 2018 saying he had not received the cheque. 
Tesco then explained that because it was sending it abroad it would take longer than the 
usual 3 to 5 business days that it originally said. Tesco said Mr D phoned again on 22 June 
2018 saying he had still not received the cheque. Tesco said that Mr D phoned yet again on 
27 June 2018 where he gave it the details of his pre-paid account so Tesco could pay in 
there instead. Tesco said it paid the money into that pre-paid account on 28 June 2018. 
On this basis Mr D brought his complaint to us in 2022. The investigator was of the view that 
given Tescos testimony, she didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Following Mr Ds contact with Tesco in 2022 it paid Mr D £100 compensation as it believed 
its service could have been better when Mr D raised his complaint with it in 2022. There 
were some problems in getting this compensation to Mr D because an international transfer 
fee was wrongly deducted. However, Tesco is now of the view that Mr D has now received 
the full £100 compensation. 
Mr D however remains dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Both parties agree that Mr D did tell Tesco back in 2018 on 8 June, that he wished to close 
his account and that the final balance would be sent to him. Mr D claims never heard from 
Tesco until he received a cheque dated in 2018 in 2022. 
However, whilst Tesco dont have all the recordings of the phone calls which I dont find 
unreasonable given the passage of time since 2018, it does however have notes of these 
calls. These notes clearly show Mr D called on 15 June 2018 chasing the agreed cheque for 
the closing balance of his account. It recounts that he was told previously he would get the 
cheque within 3 to 5 working days which was wrong as it would take longer given Mr D lived 
abroad. In that call Mr Ds complaint about the mismanagement of the time period he was 
told he should receive the cheque was acknowledged and he was told feedback would be 
given to the agent who had initially talked to him. Tescos notes show Mr D called again on 
22 June 2018 chasing his cheque. And Tescos notes show Mr D called again on 27 June 
2018 where this time he gave details of another account namely this pre-paid account to 
where it was agreed Tesco would now send the closing balance instead. Tescos file 
confirms this was done on 28 June 2018.
 
Given this evidence, I dont consider that it was feasible or likely that Tesco didnt do this. 
And I dont consider Mr D is right that someone else must have made these calls from 15 
June 2018 onwards as that wouldnt make sense since each call is following on the subject 
matter from the previous call, so how would someone else know what was said in the first 
call or indeed more importantly pass the security questions. Also, if Mr Ds recollection is 
correct why would he not have chased Tesco in any event well before 2022 when he said he 
received the cheque. Given the delay of four years in Mr D chasing this payment of his 
closing balance, none of that delay can be caused by Tesco either. 
I appreciate and understand that Mr D says he doesnt know anything about this pre-paid 
account to which Tesco paid the closing balance and that he has made a separate complaint 
about that. But I think its clear on the available evidence despite the passage of time that 
Tesco was following Mr D instructions to pay the closing balance to this pre-paid account 
given the difficulties that Mr D explained he had in receiving post, given his rural location 
which he explained to investigator. 
Therefore, I dont consider Tesco needs to do anything more here. 
Tesco following Mr Ds contact and complaint in 2022 decided to pay Mr D £100 
compensation given the mis-advice concerning the fact it initially said it would reissue the 
cheque and failed call backs when it promised to do so. It sent that compensation to Mr D by 
cheque. However, Mr D also complained that that as he lives abroad, he couldnt bank this 
compensation cheque as his bank wouldnt accept a UK cheque. So, Tesco sent the 
compensation via a bank transfer. Sadly, its clearing agent mistakenly took an international 
transaction fee, which I am now pleased to note has been refunded to Mr D.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman