DRN-2476917
The complaint
Mr F says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says the loans were not approved 
in the right way and no affordability checks were carried out. He thinks Morses shouldnt 
have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Morses provided to Mr F between July 
2019 and December 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 24/07/2019 £100 20 11/10/2019
2 01/10/2019 £350 34 outstanding
3 03/12/2019 £250 34 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said that the information Morses recorded wasnt entirely correct. And as he was 
struggling financially, he thinks the loans shouldnt have been approved. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Broadly speaking, this all means that Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr F could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, 
there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons. Ive decided not to uphold 
Mr Fs complaint and Ive have explained why below.
For loan 1 Mr F needed to repay £7.50 per week, this increased to £17.50 for loan two then 
reduced to a weekly repayment of £12.50 for loan 3. 
Ive seen a record of the information that was recorded about Mr Fs financial circumstances 
when he completed his loan applications. It was noted that Mr F had a weekly income of 
between £300 and £340. And his expenses were between £212 and £245. So, it would have 
been reasonable for Morses to think that the loans were affordable for Mr F based on the 
information that he provided. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr F mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. 
Mr F says that the information Morses collected may not have been entirely accurate. But 
the amounts that Morses recorded at the time of sale dont seem unreasonable and the 
other sources of information that Morses used, such as the credit reference agency data, 
tend to support it. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it 
obtained based on what Mr F told it and the fact this was early on in the lending relationship.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 3 were 
proportionate. I think Morses decisions to approve these loans was reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr Fs complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman