DRN-3876121
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about the handling of a claim he made on his U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line (Direct Line), legal expenses insurance policy. 
All references to Direct Line include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim for 
damage to property against his neighbour. 
Direct Line appointed a panel firm of Solicitors to consider his claim but when they contacted 
Mr W, he felt the person he spoke with didnt have the knowledge and expertise to handle 
his matter. Consequently, he asked Direct Line to provide him with a different firm of 
Solicitors or allow him to choose his own. Direct Line refused. They said they didnt have a 
different firm of Solicitors who could deal with the claim and that Mr Ws policy didnt allow 
him the freedom to choose his own Solicitor at this point in time.
Mr W is unhappy with this as well as some delays he felt were caused by Direct Line. He 
also says Direct Line didnt return his calls within a reasonable period of time, that they 
mishandled his personal data and generally caused him distress and inconvenience. He also 
feels their actions could have a negative impact on the outcome of his case against his 
neighbour.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that the policy makes clear that Direct Line are entitled to instruct their own panel 
Solicitors before proceedings become necessary and that if Mr W wants to instruct his own 
Solicitors at this point, he can do so but will have to fund them himself. The investigator went 
on to say that Direct Line couldnt instruct an alternative Solicitor for Mr W because they 
didnt have another panel firm able to deal with this type of claim. He also said that the 
customer service Mr W received didnt cause him any material loss or prejudice and that an 
apology by Direct Line was sufficient. Finally, the investigator concluded that Direct Line was 
entitled to pass the details of his claim to the panel firm in accordance with the terms of the 
policy and this didnt amount to a breach of Mr Ws data. 
Mr W doesnt agree to the matter has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. 
As I understand it Mr W was initially happy for Direct Line to appoint a panel firm to consider 
his claim but when he spoke with them, he wasnt satisfied that the person he dealt with had 
enough knowledge to deal with his claim. Mr W has since spoken to someone at the panel 
firm about his experience. Its important I set out that I cant consider complaints about firms 
of Solicitors- they have their own set of rules and regulator. So, if Mr W remains dissatisfied, 
he can complain to the Legal Ombudsman about that.
What I can consider is Direct Lines handling of his complaint about the panel firm. I can see 
that Direct Line did consider this and concluded that the panel firm hadnt at that point been 
sent all the information about Mr Ws claim, so it wasnt the claims handlers fault that they 
didnt know all of the details about it. Direct Line also refused Mr Ws request to appoint his 
own Solicitor in reliance of its policy terms. 
Ive been provided with a copy of Mr Ws policy. It says:
Choosing who represents you
If we accept your claim, we will choose a preferred law rm to try to settle the matter without 
having to go to court.
If it is necessary to take your claim to court, or if there is a conict of interests, you can 
choose a law rm to act as the appointed representative.
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to contain such a term and its consistent 
with the relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. 
Mr Ws claim has never been litigated. That means proceedings have never been issued. 
And there isnt a conflict of interest that we would consider applies here. For the avoidance 
of doubt, Mr W being unhappy with his dealings with the panel firm wouldnt amount to a 
conflict of interest. Because of this, the freedom to choose his own Solicitor doesnt apply.  
I appreciate that Mr W also asked Direct Line whether theyd appoint another panel firm, but 
Direct Line refused this. Direct Line say they dont have another panel firm that are able to 
take on this kind of claim. Overall and in the circumstances, Im satisfied that Direct Line 
properly investigated Mr Ws complaint and confirmed what they could reasonably offer him 
in the circumstances- namely the use of the panel firm, or the option to instruct his own 
Solicitor at his own cost. I dont think thats unreasonable and accords with the policy terms. 
Equally I dont think Direct Line are obliged to offer Mr W the use of another panel firm, 
particularly if they dont have one available.
Ive also looked at the service Mr W says he received from Direct Line overall. Whilst its true 
that Direct Line didnt pass all of the information about his claim to the panel firm, this was 
later rectified following a request from the panel firm. I accept that this may have caused Mr 
W to feel the panel firm didnt understand his claim, but I dont think he was prejudiced by 
the information being sent later and indeed before he made his complaint to Direct Line. Ive 
also looked at the history of the calls Mr W says werent responded to in a timely manner. Its 
true that those calls werent immediately responded to but generally they were responded to 
within Direct Lines service standards. I know Mr W might have found this inconvenient, but I 
cant require a business to do more than act within their service standards. Mr W has referred to other calls which he says Direct Line havent acknowledged as well as general 
difficulties in getting through to them. I havent seen anything to substantiate that his calls 
werent returned and I cant see any cause for an award of compensation because Mr W 
couldnt get through to the person at Direct Line he wanted to speak to on any given date, 
particularly when Direct Line did appear to respond to his messages. 
I note that Mr W feels Direct Lines actions could have a negative effect on his claim. I 
assume thats because Direct Line havent agreed to consider the claim in the way Mr W 
wants. Direct Line is only obliged to provide cover in accordance with its policy terms and 
conditions. Mr W is of course free to instruct Solicitors on a privately paying basis or pursue 
the matter alone should he wish to do so.
Finally, I understand Mr W is concerned with how Direct Line handled his personal 
information. In particular, he feels that they werent entitled to send information to the panel 
firm. In this case Direct Line appointed the panel firm to consider the claim. In order to do so 
they sent details of that claim to them. But because they omitted to send everything Mr W 
had initially sent in, they later forwarded that information to the panel firm. I dont think this 
amounts to a breach of Mr Ws personal data. I appreciate that Mr W feels his contact with 
Direct Line before this information was sent was enough to mean the information shouldnt 
have been passed on, but I dont agree. Direct Line have said they werent aware of Mr Ws 
request to stop dealing with the panel firm at the point at which they sent this information. 
And no decision had been made on Mr Ws complaint at that point either. The panel firm 
were still instructed- albeit with an incomplete file. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Direct Line to pass on the remaining information to them to put them in a position to properly 
assess the claim as instructed. In addition, the policy states:
You must keep us and your appointed representative promptly informed of all developments 
relating to the claim and provide us and the appointed representative immediately with all 
information, evidence and documents that you have or know about.
So, Mr W was obliged to share that information with the panel firm in any event. For that 
reason, I dont think I can say that Direct Line did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Direct Line. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman