DRN-2619370
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) restricted its account without warning or explanation.
Mr C is one of Ms directors and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M held a number of accounts with NatWest.
On 19 August 2019, NatWest undertook a review of Ms accounts and restricted the 
companys access to them while it did so. NatWest completed its review on 29 August and 
the account restrictions were removed. 
On 4 September, NatWest wrote to M to say that, following its review, it had decided to end 
its banking relationship with the company. It said that Ms accounts would be closed on 
3 November, so the company would need to make alternative arrangements.
Mr C has accepted the banks decision to close Ms accounts, but he doesnt think it acted 
fairly in restricting access without notice or declining to give the reason for doing so. He says 
the restriction meant M couldnt collect payments, pay a tax bill on time or meet direct debit 
payments, which were returned unpaid and for which the bank applied charges. He also said 
that he spent a lot of time and effort contacting the bank about the restriction without a 
meaningful reply. So he wants NatWest to tell him why it restricted Ms account and 
compensate the company for its losses  which he estimates to be £30,000.
NatWest says it acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Ms accounts and 
wasnt obliged to share any more information than it did with Mr C. But while the complaints 
been with us, it has offered to refund the unpaid item fees incurred while the restriction was 
in place, which total £100. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest take any further action. In summary, he 
said:
The terms and conditions of Ms accounts allowed it to suspend access without 
giving notice. Hed reviewed the banks reason for the restriction and thought it had 
acted reasonably in the circumstances. And while thered been some dispute as to 
when the restriction had been lifted, the banks internal records evidenced that this 
was done on 29 August 2019.
NatWest wasnt required to provide an explanation for its decision while the 
restriction was in force or once it was lifted, so he couldnt require it to do so.
While it was understandable that Mr C had made a number of attempts to obtain 
further information about what was happening, he didnt think NatWest had dealt with 
them inappropriately.
The refund of the unpaid direct debit charges was fair, given that M had no way of 
preventing the failure of the payments. But while appreciating the broader impact of 
the matter on M, he didnt think the bank needed to pay any further compensation as 
it hadnt done anything wrong in restricting the account.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He maintained that the restriction was unjustified 
and had severe ramifications for M, for which it deserved compensation. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The review and restriction of Ms account
NatWest has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Ms accounts allowed NatWest to suspend or restrict access, 
both to the accounts and related services, in certain circumstances. From the information 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that NatWest restricted Ms account in order to carry out its legal and 
regulatory requirements in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
The review was conducted within a reasonable timeframe, with access restricted on 
19 August 2019 but reinstated ten days later. I understand that Mr C initially believed the 
restriction only to have been lifted on 5 September. But the banks internal records show that 
access was restored on 29 August, and this is further evidenced by payments being made 
and received from the account from the following day onwards. These included transfers 
between Ms accounts, so I think it was aware by 30 August that the restriction had been 
lifted.
I appreciate why Mr C was, and remains, keen to know why NatWest was restricting Ms 
accounts. But it wasnt required to give its reasons and I dont think it did anything wrong in 
declining to do so in the circumstances that applied. It also wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require NatWest to do so now.
Mr C is also unhappy that NatWest didnt notify M of the restriction  he says he only came 
to know about it when he was unable to access the companys online banking. But the bank 
wasnt obliged to provide notice. Mr C was told of the restriction when calling on 22 August 
and this was confirmed in writing the same day. The bank also wrote to M with the outcome 
of its review on 4 September. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C has detailed the impact that the restriction had on M, and I appreciate the disruption it 
will have caused. But in order to award compensation, Id need to find that this was down to 
an error on NatWests part  and for the reasons above, I dont think it was. The bank has 
already agreed to refund the charges it applied as a result of the unpaid direct debits, and I 
think thats as much as I can fairly require of it.Contact and correspondence about the restriction
Mr C has raised a number of points about the way NatWest handled his requests for 
information about the restriction. He says the bank ignored his calls and emails while the 
account was blocked. But having reviewed the banks internal records and listened to 
telephone conversations between the parties over the period in question, I dont think this 
was the case. Rather, it was that NatWest couldnt provide the information Mr C was 
seeking  he wanted to know the reason for the banks restriction, which, as Ive explained 
above, it couldnt provide. 
Some further confusion appears to have been caused by the fact that Mr C didnt receive 
NatWests letter to him of 22 August 2019. This letter explained that the bank was unable to 
share any further information with him about the restriction. Mr C is unhappy that the 
contents of this letter were only shared with him on 4 September, after hed been chasing 
things up. But I can see the letter was properly addressed and the banks internal records 
evidence that it was sent. So, while its regrettable that Mr C didnt receive it, and that this 
led him to make further requests for information, I dont think that was down to an error on 
NatWests part. 
Again, therefore, while I dont doubt that the time and trouble spent on following up the 
matter with NatWest put M to some inconvenience, I dont think this was the result of 
anything the bank did wrong. So Im not requiring NatWest to compensate M for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think the offer made by National Westminster Bank Plc to 
settle the complaint is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should reimburse M the unpaid item 
fees applied between 19 and 29 August 2019, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman