DRN-3367482
The complaint
Mr M submitted a number of complaints to Abbey Financial Service (N.I.) Ltd (AFS).
In 2018 he and his wife jointly alleged that they had been given unsuitable advice by 
AFS in 2016, through its Director Niall McGeown (NMG), to invest in the Helix Fund. 
[C1]
In 2019 he complained again and alleged that NMG, as an AFS Director, had 
misrepresented his role and regulatory responsibilities in the course of the Helix fund 
investment and in the course of investment and investment management 
recommendations and arrangements for his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
He also complained about a conflict of interest between AFS and the Discretionary 
Fund Manager he says AFS recommended to him; about an investment made in the 
SIPP and losses incurred in that investment; and about communications between 
him and AFS. 
[C2]
Both complaints were referred to this service.
What happened
On 14 March 2019 I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD1) on C1 and I concluded that this 
service does not have jurisdiction to address its merits. 
C2 was split into two cases (C2a and C2b). C2a covered the SIPP related complaint and 
C2b focused on the misrepresentation allegation with regards to the Helix Fund investment. 
C2b is the present case. AFS said  and it continues to say  that all matters related to the 
Helix Fund investment are outside this services jurisdiction because JD1 said so. On 25 
January 2022 I issued another Jurisdiction Decision (JD2) on C2b and I concluded that we 
have jurisdiction to address its merits. I referred to C1 as complaint 1, and my main findings 
included the following:
I consider it reasonably clear from what I quoted in the previous section (quoted from the 
2019 JD) that both complaint 1 and the findings in the JD issued for complaint 1 were limited 
to the allegation of unsuitable investment advice (for the Helix fund investment) only. The 
complaint from Mr M and his wife was precise and clear in this respect (but for the 
misrepresentation issue they added late to their claim), my findings on their eligibility as 
complainants was the same (and those findings were expressly made only in the context of 
the complaint about advice) and my findings on whether (or not) there was a regulated 
activity in their complaint addressed only the regulated activity of advising on investments. 
The present complaint alleges that NMG, as an AFS Director, misrepresented his role and 
regulatory responsibilities (including authorities) in the course of Mr Ms Helix fund 
investment  the 2019 JD made it clear that this allegation had been raised at the time but 
subsequent to the complaint about advice; that the allegation had not been presented to 
AFS as it had to be; and that for these reasons the JD made no findings on the allegation. It 
follows that the present complaint and allegation was/is new and was not a part of complaint 
1 as treated in the 2019 JD. It also follows that there are no grounds to support AFS 
argument that all matters related to the Helix fund were concluded in the JD and cannot be 
revisited. The JD explicitly said the opposite, it said the matter of our jurisdiction for the 
misrepresentation issue(s) had not been addressed.
As I said in the 2019 FD, a complainant must be eligible in order to pursue the relevant
complaint through this service, and the regulators rules for eligibility to complain are also as
I stated in the 2019 JD (and as quoted above). I retain and restate the 2019 JDs finding that
Mr M was a consumer for the Helix fund investment 
My findings on whether (or not) Mr M had a regulated relationship with AFS  which is the
second limb of the regulators test for eligibility to complain  differs from those I reached in
the 2019 JD, because the context of the complaint is now different. His allegation is now
about misrepresentations by NMG/AFS in the course of his investment in the Helix fund, so
the relevant scope goes beyond the previous matter of alleged advice. It now features the
arrangements leading to his investment  or, in other words, the scope features what
happened in the course of his investment in the fund. Such arrangements could, in theory,
have included advice, but the matter of alleged advice has already been concluded so the
relevant scope is limited to the matter of arrangements only. For this reason, I consider it
worthwhile to address this aspect of the test for eligibility within my treatment of the
regulated activity requirement in the next sub-section.
In his formal response to the Helix fund related complaint, NMG, responding to the 
complaint on behalf of AFS, said as follows to Mr M (and his wife) 
We had spoken early May 2016 about Helix and I had left you the providers pack plus
emailed you further literature on the 10th May 2016. This investment was for high net worth
individuals or sophisticated investors only. You qualified under both as you had assets in
access [sic] of £250,000 and had managed your own Sipp for a number of years. After
studying all the literature you decided to invest £150,000 and then changed your mind and
upped it to £250,000, you transferred the funds from your Bank directly to Helix. This was an
unregulated investment with no advice given. Due diligence had been completed on the
product, a copy of the Insurance policy was also obtained. You had access to all information
including full terms and conditions, you knew where the money was invested.
In his statement to this service, emailed on 11 February 2019, NMG said 
I had completed due diligence on the product by attending a number of seminars and
travelling to Panama to see the operation first hand. I had obtained a copy of the insurance
policy which covered 95% of the capital in the event of things going wrong and was arranged
by Howden Insurance Brokers, a very reputable Company who also arrange Abbey Financial
Services professional indemnity insurance.
Quite simply if the product did not have this insurance policy I would not have introduced it to
[Mr M]. The presence of the insurance policy was central to everything.
In the 2019 JD I also noted as follows 
NMG appears to have continued to play a role in relation to the Helix fund even after the
investment was made. Email evidence shows this and his statement within the complaint
concedes the same. However, I do not consider that his role, as broadly depicted in the
correspondence, amounted to an advisory one.
Following the investment, there appears to have been a period in which NMG was an
intermediary for [Mr M] in terms of conveying queries to the fund and feeding back the
funds responses to [Mr M]. In some emails [Mr M] asks NMG for his advice on specificmatters and in response NMG appears to have done no more than put the matters to the
fund, obtain their responses and then feedback their responses to [Mr M]. It might even be
perceived that he appears to have consciously avoided saying anything akin to advice. In
some cases he responded to similar queries from [Mr M] by doing no more than giving
updates on the state of affairs relevant to the query(ies) and to the fund  but,
again, no appearance of advice.
Overall, I am satisfied that the quotes above and the relevant contents within them serve as
evidence to conclude that NMGs conduct, which was not distinguished as personal conduct
(and was therefore reasonably perceived by Mr M as conduct on behalf of AFS), amounted
to arrangements made by an introducer; that his conduct extended to what appears to have
been substantial due diligence for the investment that Mr M made (inclusive of the product
information and product providers pack he presented to Mr M, foreign travel related due 
diligence for the investment and even due diligence on the insurance policy related to the
investment); that his introduction of the investment to Mr M followed from this due diligence;
and that he continued to play an intermediary role between Mr M and the fund even after the
investment was made. I conclude that the regulated activity of arranging deals in
investments features in the present complaint, and I do not consider that NMG would have
provided such a notable service/role (as depicted above) in the arrangements leading to Mr
Ms Helix fund investment  and then continued to provide an intermediary service to him
even after the investment  if Mr M was not a customer of AFS (given the absence of
evidence that he was a personal customer of NMG). As such, there is a regulated activity of
arranging deals in investments within Mr Ms present complaint and he was a consumer and
customer of AFS for that activity, so he is an eligible complainant (for the present 
complaint).
Our investigator looked into the merits of C2b and concluded that it should be upheld. She 
mainly said:
Her view stands in conjunction with JD2.
There is no evidence that NMG made effort to clarify that his involvement in the Helix 
Fund investment was in a personal capacity; there is no evidence that AFS made this 
clear to him; there is evidence that he had been a client of AFS since 2010 and that it 
was advising him on other investments at the time of the Helix Fund investment; 
there is evidence (related to those investments) in which NMG was referred to as his 
adviser; NMG and AFS gave him the impression that the Helix Fund investment was 
being arranged by AFS; and whilst they did not advise him on the investment it is 
clear he believed that they were advising him on it.
The regulators Principles for businesses (at Principles 2, 3, 6 and 7) and Conduct of 
Business Source Book (COBS, at COBS 2.1.1 R) required AFS to conduct its 
business with due care, skill and diligence, to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to its clients best interests, to 
communicate with them in a manner that is clear, fair and not misleading, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in doing so. These requirements were breached by 
AFS (and NMG) in terms of the misrepresentation of its service to Mr M in the course 
of his Helix Fund investment. They ought to have ensured that he knew he was not 
dealing with a regulated adviser of the firm (NMG), but they did not do so.
 The Helix Fund worked by issuing  tranches of Euro Medium Term Notes 
(EMTNs) - debt securities - with each tranche having a specified duration and being 
redeemable on maturity. Each tranche provided fixed coupons  Helix used investor 
money to purchase promissory notes issued by Privilege Wealth under the terms and conditions of a loan and ongoing finance agreement. Privilege Wealth conducted 
lending activities in the USA and the investor money paid by Helix to it were to be 
used by Privilege Wealth to provide short term loans and revolving lines of credit in 
the USA.
Around the time of the Helix Fund investment AFS was advising Mr M on his SIPP 
and in that context it was aware of his profile  he was around three years from 
retirement, he had a balanced attitude to risk, limited investment experience and he 
was not a sophisticated investor. He also had a particular and relevant factor in his 
personal circumstances that was known at the time. AFS (and NMG) were therefore 
in a good position to know that the introduction, to him, of the unregulated and high-
risk Helix Fund was inappropriate, given his level of knowledge and experience in 
investments. This finding is not about unsuitability, instead it is about AFS failing to 
uphold Mr Ms best interests and it committed that failure by introducing this 
inappropriate fund to him.
Mr M was assured by and relied upon NMGs introduction of the Helix Fund and on 
NMGs due diligence behind the introduction, he also considered NMG to be his 
adviser. It is unlikely he would have invested in the fund but for these factors, so the 
misrepresentation of service to him, by AFS/NMG, led to this inappropriate 
investment from which he made a loss and AFS is responsible for that loss. Mr M 
should be compensated for that and should receive £500 for the trouble and upset 
the matter has caused him.
AFS strongly disagreed with this outcome. It said evidence, shared with this service, 
includes three suitability letters to Mr M from another AFS adviser (not NMG) and investment 
documentation on other matters that listed another AFS adviser (not NMG) as his adviser, so 
these show clear effort on its part to distinguish between its service to him at the time and 
NMGs personal engagement with him; this service has, thus far, failed to challenge him on 
this point and the documentation the investigator mentioned (citing NMG as adviser) was 
produced in error; Mr M ran his own multi-million pound (annual turnover) business, he set 
up his successful SIPP by his own initiative and, as part of his application for the Helix Fund, 
he submitted a letter in which he confirmed over 20 years of experience in the stock market, 
so he was an experienced and sophisticated investor and this service has been unable to 
show otherwise; the Helix Fund introduction was therefore appropriate for him, especially 
because NMGs due diligence confirmed the existence of insurance, within the fund, against 
capital shortfall (without which he would not have introduced the fund to Mr M); and it later 
transpired, after the investment, that this insurance was not present when the fund failed, but 
AFS cannot be held responsible for that as it was present at the point of introduction.
AFS also argued that, following the findings in JD1, there is no basis for this service to make 
any findings on merits about NMG portraying himself as an adviser in the case, because JD1 
already concluded that there was no advice from him to Mr M. 
In response, the investigator repeated her view that AFS was obliged to communicate with 
Mr M in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, so it was obliged to clarify any room 
for confusion about its role and that of NMGs in the Helix Fund, but it did not do that. She 
also noted that the fact Mr M ran his own business did not make him a sophisticated investor 
and that he had only two shareholdings in his SIPP over the course of around six years, so 
whilst he was not a novice investor he also was not very experienced or sophisticated. 
The case was then referred to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not address the matter of suitability in this complaint, and I do not believe the 
investigator did that  in fact, she made it explicitly clear that her findings were unrelated to 
unsuitability. I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I share the investigators view that he should be 
compensated for financial loss and that he should receive £500 for the trouble and upset he 
has caused.
AFS is correct in saying that JD1 concluded the complaint in C1 about alleged unsuitability 
of the Helix Fund for Mr M (and for his wife, who joined him in C1). However, JD2 made it 
clear to the parties that the matters of alleged misrepresentation and the introduction of, and 
arrangements for, the Helix Fund investment were not covered by JD1, were actions 
covered by the regulated activity or arranging deals in investments and are presently within 
this services jurisdiction  for the reasons set out in JD2 (and quoted above).
My approach to the complaint is defined by the findings in JD2, and the investigator 
expressly took the same approach (as I summarised above). This means the issues to 
determine are whether (or not) AFS, with NMG conducting himself as its director and on its 
behalf, introduced and arranged Mr Ms Helix Fund investment in a manner that 
misrepresented its role; whether (or not) the introduction (and, by implication, the 
arrangement that followed) was appropriate for Mr M; and, if there was misrepresentation 
and if the introduction (and arrangement) was inappropriate, whether (or not) Mr M would 
have proceeded to invest in the Helix Fund regardless. This also means I will not be treating 
any arguments or evidence about advice. Advice is not an issue in the present complaint.
Overall, on balance, and as I explain below, it is my conclusion that misrepresentation of 
NMGs/AFS role alongside the inappropriate introduction (and arrangement) of the Helix 
Fund led to Mr Ms investment in it, and he would not have invested in it otherwise. 
It is not disputed that NMG introduced the Helix Fund to Mr M. If AFS disputes, separately, 
that he also arranged Mr Ms invested in it, I consider that the evidence directly from NMGs 
statements, as I have quoted above (from JD2), stands as a reliable basis to conclude that 
he arranged the investment subsequent to introducing it. Whilst AFS continues to dispute 
our jurisdiction for the complaint, I have not seen any information from it that defeats these 
findings (about introduction and arrangement of the investment) or the other findings in JD2 
 including the finding that NMG was conducting himself as an AFS director and on behalf of 
AFS, so AFS is the correct respondent to, and is responsible for, the complaint. 
Evidence from AFS and NMG shows that the service to Mr M was misrepresented. He was a 
client of AFS and it is not disputed that around the time of the Helix Fund investment he was 
in receipt of investment advice from AFS on other matters. His assertion is that he 
considered the service for the Helix Fund investment to be no different and to be part of the 
overall service he was receiving. JD1 did not uphold this assertion with specific regard to the 
notion of advice. However, on balance, I do not consider it was unreasonable for him to 
believe the fund had been introduced to him and was being arranged for him as a client of 
AFS and as part of its overall service to him. It has since transpired that AFS did/does not 
wish to be responsible for the Helix Fund, but he did not know this at the time and this is an 
important point in considering what he would have done had this been made clear to him  
which I address later.
AFS says there was a distinction between its service to Mr M and NMGs service to him, so 
he would have known that the Helix Fund matter was outside its service. Its argument and the evidence it has referred to appear to be rooted in the allegation about unsuitable advice, 
which I am not addressing. In terms of introducing the investment and arranging it for him, 
suitability letters would not have been required for either, so the three suitability letters AFS 
has referred to do not carry the relevance or weight it believes they do. The investigator 
was/is correct in highlighting AFS regulatory duty to communicate with its clients clearly, 
fairly and in a manner that is not misleading. Mr M was AFS relatively longstanding client, it 
was engaged in assisting him with other investment matters, NMG introduced and arranged 
the Helix Fund investment for him around the same time and NMG was a director of AFS. 
These circumstances lent themselves to Mr M concluding, reasonably, that he was receiving 
all services as a client of AFS and if that was not the case, there was a duty upon AFS to 
make that unequivocally clear  but it did not do that.
Regulation requires that the promotion/introduction of investment products and/or services 
by a firm to its clients must be appropriate for the client. Assessment of appropriateness is 
the process by which firms must assess whether (or not) a client has enough knowledge and 
experience to understand the product or service, and the risks associated with it. A firm 
could be entitled to assume this where the client is a professional client, but Mr M was not 
classified as a professional client. 
Furthermore, with regards to the promotion of non-mainstream pooled investments, COBS 
4.12 (in 2016 and to date) restricted such promotion to a specific list of non-retail client 
types. A non-mainstream pooled investment included an Unregulated Collective Investment 
Scheme (UCIS). The Helix Fund  the Helix Securitisation Fund  was as described by the 
investigator (as quoted above). Available information about it suggests that it was an 
offshore UCIS, so its promotion would have been covered by the restrictions in COBS 4.12 
at the time Mr M was introduced to it.
I have not seen evidence that Mr M matched any of the non-retail client types to whom such 
an investment could be promoted. He was a retail client. The list includes certified high net 
worth and sophisticated investors and self-certified sophisticated investors, but there is no 
evidence of any such certifications  or assessments for such certifications  specifically for 
the Helix Fund investment in Mr Ms case. 
The Helix Fund ought not to have been promoted to Mr M. I have not seen evidence that it 
was anything like any investment he had previously experienced. To the contrary, it appears 
to have been notably remote or alien to his pre-existing investment experience. I do not 
consider that his stock market and limited SIPP investment experience put him in a position 
to have the knowledge and experience to understand the fund and its associated risks. The 
fund was distinctly complex, as is evident from the different layers of offshore debt 
arrangements within its overall operation. Information about the fund supports this 
conclusion, and its complexity and layers of operation added to the risks associated with it. 
Overall, on balance and for all the reasons above, Mr M did not have the knowledge and 
experience to meaningfully understand the Helix Fund or its risks, its promotion to him was 
inappropriate and he was not a non-retail client type to whom it could have been promoted. It 
follows from these conclusions that the arrangement of his investment in the fund was also 
inappropriate and should not have happened.
The sum of the above findings is that AFS is responsible for misrepresenting its service to 
Mr M, a service in which the Helix Fund was inappropriately promoted to and arranged for 
him. I have considered whether (or not) these actions were the cause of his investment and I 
have concluded, on balance, that they were. 
There appears to be no evidence of an awareness of, or plan to invest in, the Helix Fund on 
Mr Ms part prior to NMG introducing it to him. NMG shared with Mr M his due diligence on the fund as part of the information he (Mr M) considered in his decision-making process. 
NMG had also given him the Investment Memorandum for the fund and a brochure for the 
underlying Privilege Wealth entity. It was not the type of investment he was familiar with so it 
is more likely (than not) that, at least, he relied on NMGs assurance about his due diligence 
on it. 
I also consider that Mr M relied on his perception of safety in the introduction and 
arrangement happening as parts of AFS overall service to him (as its client). I consider that 
he would have been given cause for concern and/or suspicion by the notion of AFS having 
no responsibility for either. It is unlikely to have made sense to him for AFS to be advising 
him on other matters but, without explanation, to be seeking to avoid any form of 
responsibility for the Helix Fund. Hence my finding that he probably had the understanding  
which was not corrected by AFS or NMG  that the introduction and arrangement of the fund 
was part of AFS service to him.
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that Mr M would not have invested in the Helix Fund 
but for NMGs/AFS misrepresentation of its service to him, but for its inappropriate 
promotion of the fund to him and but for its inappropriate arrangement of the investment for 
him. In other words, like the investigator concluded, AFS is responsible for the loss he 
incurred from his investment in the fund. As such, he is entitled to redress. I also endorse the 
£500 trouble and upset award recommended by the investigator and I have ordered the 
same below.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mr M as close as I can to the position he would 
probably now be in if he had not invested in the Helix Fund. I consider that he would have 
invested differently, but because it is not possible to say precisely what he would have done 
differently I am satisfied that the benchmark comparison exercise that I have set out and 
ordered below  based on his profile at the time  becomes appropriate. 
what must AFS do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, AFS must:
Compare the performance of his investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. Pay 
interest as set out below.
Pay him £500 for the trouble and upset caused to him by his experience in the matter, 
and especially by being misled into the investment.
Provide him with the details of the calculations in a clear and simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interestThe Helix 
Fund
IlliquidFTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index)Date of 
investmentDate of 
settlement Not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Mr M agrees to AFS taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then it may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to AFS any amount he 
may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if AFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting them periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid 
out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the 
fair value.
In addition, the investigator stated, in her view (and to AFS), what I have quoted below in 
relation to compensation for wrapper fees. If the circumstances relevant to achieving fair and 
complete redress for Mr M make it relevant and/or applicable, I endorse it. Otherwise, it need 
not be applied.
The wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by you taking over the investment, 
or this is something that [Mr M] can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If you are
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that you
pay [Mr M] an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable
period for the parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the Helix Fund investment appears to have been 
such that he was prepared to take some risk for the chance of the return he sought.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds, and it would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that the use of this benchmark would reasonably put him into a position 
that broadly reflects the sort of return he could have had from an alternative and 
appropriate investment (that also matched his circumstances).
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order Abbey Financial Service 
(N.I.) Ltd to pay him compensation as set out above and to provide him with a calculation of 
that compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman