DRN-3361549
The complaint
Miss W complains that AXA Insurance Plc (AXA) have unfairly declined to cover her 
contents, that were damaged during a fire in the exterior of the building directly outside of 
her flat. Shes also unhappy that the replacement window installed by AXAs contractors is 
scratched and damaged. Miss W has told us that shes also experienced significant distress 
and upset as a result of the way AXA has handled the claim. 
What happened
On 16 February 2022, I issued my provisional decision, explaining why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint. This is what I said:
What happened
There have been several contractors, loss adjusters and other businesses involved in 
this complaint who have acted on behalf of AXA. However, for clarity, Ill refer only to 
AXA by name in this decision, even when referring to the actions of its agents.
Miss W suffered damage to her flat caused by a fire, in July 2020. The fire damaged 
external parts of the building and her window. Water from the fire-fighters hoses 
caused her window frames to expand and sent water inside her flat, causing damage 
to her internal walls, blinds, curtains, carpet, and TV unit. 
Miss W complained to AXA about the way theyd handled the claim. On 
24 June 2021, AXA sent Miss W their final response letter, upholding her complaint. 
They accepted that unacceptable, avoidable delays had occurred, unnecessary 
stress and anxiety was caused by the unexpected arrival of a contractor on a day of 
annual leave Miss W had taken, and that the service Miss W had received from 
AXAs contractors was poor. AXA apologised and offered Miss W £550 
compensation for the distress shed suffered.
Miss W didnt accept the offer of compensation from AXA and brought her complaint 
to our service. In addition to the matters addressed in the final response letter, 
Miss W also explained that she believed her damaged contents also ought to be 
included in the claim, because they were damaged through no fault of her own.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ws complaint and, on 15 July 2021, issued her 
view upholding the complaint. In summary, she said:
AXA accepted the service Miss W received wasnt good enough, but due to 
the catalogue of errors that had been made, and the resulting distress theyd 
caused Miss W, the compensation should be increased to £1,000.
As the loss adjuster had said that her damaged contents would be covered by 
the claim, AXA should cover her contents, including carpet, curtains blinds, 
and TV unit on receipt of invoices.
AXA should have one more attempt at repairing the window, and, if that isnt 
successful, make a cash settlement to Miss W for her to get it repaired by a 
contractor of her choice. In that instance, Miss W was to provide a quotation 
which AXA was to meet.
Miss W accepted our investigators view, but AXA did not. They said that Miss W 
didnt have contents cover with them, and she couldnt prove AXA said they would 
cover those items. AXA believed that Miss W would need to speak to her own 
contents insurer about that. The increased compensation was agreed to by AXA, 
and they said they were trying to rectify the damaged window. 
Our investigator shared these comments with Miss W, and she said she was pleased 
AXA were going to pay the increased amount of compensation. With regard to her 
contents claim she said she had asked on more than one occasion from the outset, 
about whether she would be covered. She maintained that when the loss adjuster 
attended her property he maintained categorically that it wasnt her fault, and 
everything would be covered so she didnt need to worry. She believes that because 
AXA provided incorrect information (via their loss adjuster) which effectively stopped 
her from making arrangements to seek compensation from other sources, then they 
should pay the claim.
As AXA didnt accept our investigators view, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision to be made.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
come to a different conclusion to that reached by our investigator and partially uphold 
this complaint. I will explain why.
There have been a number of issues raised by Miss W, during the period of this 
claim. I understand that the internal and external repairs have now been completed, 
so those elements of Miss Ws original complaint are now resolved. I therefore wont 
be addressing those elements of the claim in this decision. 
I will address the three remaining elements of Miss Ws claim under the following 
headings: claim for damage to contents; claim for damage to window; and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Claim for damage to contents
Miss W told us that her carpet, curtains, curtain pole, blinds and TV unit were 
damaged by the water from the fire hoses that entered her flat on the date of the fire, 
and again, on a further occasion during a storm as a result of the external window 
and wall not being made weather tight. She says that AXAs loss adjuster confirmed 
to her on more than one occasion that the contents would be covered by the claim, 
as the damage had happened through no fault of Miss Ws. 
The claim history notes Ive been provided with by AXA show that the broker asked 
them in November 2020 whether Miss Ws contents could be included in the 
settlement, and AXA said they would not, as the policy only covers damage to the 
building. The broker challenged that decision, on the basis that Miss W was 
effectively an innocent third party and the policy provided cover for third party 
property damage. AXA confirmed that it wouldnt be covered by the third-party property damage part of the policy, and after referring the query to the underwriter, 
also said that no ex gratia payment would be made. 
The brokers case history notes show that Miss W was informed in December 2020 
that the contents might not be covered, because the insurance policy only covered 
damage to buildings, not contents. The case history notes go on to show that in 
January 2021 Miss W was told that AXA had confirmed they wouldnt cover the 
contents. 
Our investigator concluded that AXA should cover Miss Ws damaged contents 
because the loss adjuster had confirmed that cover would be provided under the 
policy. AXA disagreed and said Miss W should claim on her own contents insurance 
policy, for the damaged contents. 
In deciding whether or not AXA should include Miss Ws damaged contents in settling 
the claim, Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, to see what they 
provide cover for.
Page 6 of the policy terms and conditions includes the following definition, which 
expressly excludes tenants contents in individual flats, from the cover provided by 
the policy:
Contents of Communal Parts
Furniture and all other property belonging to You or for which You are 
responsible in or on the stairs, halls, and other communal parts of the Block of 
Flats but not the contents of individual Flats themselves
Section 2 of the policy terms, from page 14, includes the terms that are relevant to 
the insurance of the contents of communal parts. However, there is no reference in 
that section, or elsewhere in the policy terms and conditions to cover being provided 
for tenants contents within the individual flat.
So, as AXA has suggested, the policy does not provide cover for damage caused to 
the tenants contents, by an insured peril. I dont find this to be unreasonable 
because insurance policies dont cover every possible eventuality; they cover the 
specific risks detailed in the policy terms and conditions, which are reflected in the 
premium charged.
Ive next gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to 
cover the cost of the damaged contents, in the circumstances of Miss Ws complaint. 
Miss W has said she was assured a number of times by AXAs loss adjuster that the 
damaged contents would be covered as part of the claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether that means AXA should pay the claim for the damaged contents, despite the 
fact the policy doesnt provide such cover.
The evidence on this issue is contradictory. On the one hand, Miss W is adamant 
that she was told everything would be covered. On the other hand, AXA disputes that 
the loss adjuster, being familiar with block building policies, (and the fact that they 
dont ordinarily cover contents), would have given any such assurances. In the 
absence of any corroborating evidence, either way, Id need to form my view on this, 
on the basis of what I think most likely happened. However, I dont think its 
necessary to come to a conclusion about what was likely said. I say this because 
even if the loss adjuster had given such an assurance, that in itself wouldnt put AXA 
on risk to provide such cover. AXA was neither responsible for the fire nor had agreed to provide cover for tenants contents in individual flats when they underwrote 
the buildings insurance. So, despite what Miss W may have been told, I still dont 
think it would be reasonable to require AXA to pay Miss Ws claim for her damaged 
contents.
Claim for damage to window
AXA accepted that the window would need to be replaced after the fire, and the 
cladding above the window would also need to be replaced. On 9 April 2021, they 
confirmed that the works had been completed. However, Miss W wasnt happy with 
the state of the new window. She said the window was cracked and dirty and she 
wasnt happy with the state of the windowsill. On 20 May 2021, the contractor 
returned to the property and installed a replacement windowsill on top of the existing 
one. Miss W said it still had marks on it and she said the contractor installed a dirty 
strip of fascia that was broken at one end underneath the new windowsill. The 
contractor did agree that the glass needed to be replaced due to scratches on it, and 
said theyd get that ordered. Miss W also said the contractor damaged the plaster 
and paint work on the side of the windowsill. 
On 1 February 2022, Miss W told us that one of the panes of glass on the window 
still had a number of scratches on it, the whole window ledge was covered in 
scratches, scuffs and blemishes and the window ledge remained sawn off at a 
jagged angle at one end and hadnt been capped off properly. When issuing her 
view, in July 2021, more than seven months ago, our investigator said that AXA 
should have one further opportunity to repair the window. If that wasnt successful, 
our investigator said Miss W should provide a quotation from a contractor of her 
choice, for the outstanding repair works to be done, and AXA should make her a 
cash settlement sufficient to cover those costs. 
From Miss Ws recent email, it seems that, although AXA have not denied their 
responsibility for repairing the window, theyve not made any attempt to arrange for 
the window to be repaired over the last seven months. In view of the period of time 
that this claim and complaint has been ongoing, Im minded to require AXA to pay a 
further sum to Miss W to settle that part of the claim. To ensure the amount required 
to settle this part of the claim and complaint is fair to both parties, I would invite Miss 
W, in response to this provisional decision to provide a quotation from a contractor of 
her choice, to complete the outstanding repair works to the window and surrounds. I 
would also direct AXA, in response to this provisional decision, to provide a 
breakdown of the costs already incurred in repairing the window and surrounds and 
send a contractor to the property to provide an assessment of the cost to Miss W, of 
making good the damage to the window and surrounds. I will then have regard to the 
quotations provided, when deciding an appropriate award in my final decision. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
AXA has conceded that there were a number of avoidable delays that occurred 
during its handling of the claim. Theyve also accepted that the service Miss W 
received from its contractors was poor. Initially, AXA offered Miss W £550 
compensation for the upset, stress, and inconvenience shed been caused as a 
result. However, our investigator didnt think that went far enough to make up for the 
difficulties Miss W had experienced. She recommended that £1000 compensation be 
paid, which both AXA and Miss W accepted. 
When making an award for distress and inconvenience, I take account of the 
avoidable delays caused by the business, the actions or inaction the business is responsible for, the impact that has on the consumer, and the level of compensation 
made by this service, for consumers in similar circumstances (examples of which are 
published on the Financial Ombudsman Services website). 
Having done this, Im provisionally of the view that the £1,000 compensation 
recommended by our investigator, is fair, in all the circumstances of Miss Ws 
complaint. The available evidence shows the impact of AXAs handling of the claim 
has caused Miss W substantial distress, upset, and worry over a sustained period. 
So, I intend to require AXA to pay Miss W £1,000 to compensate Miss W for that. 
I concluded by saying, to put things right for Miss W, I was intending to require AXA to pay 
Miss W an additional sum to settle the remainder of her claim in relation to the replacement 
window, and pay her £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of 
the way AXA has handled the claim. 
I invited Miss W and AXA to let me have their final comments and any new evidence they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision on the complaint. 
AXA responded to say that they accepted the decision and had previously received a quote 
from Miss W, for £475, as their contractors werent able to repair the window. They said they 
would therefore be willing to pay the cost of £475 in addition to the compensation payment of 
£1,000. 
Miss W responded to clarify that the following issues were still outstanding: 
She still has a pane of glass in her window that has numerous scratches on it.
The whole window ledge (the second one installed) is covered in scratches, scuffs 
and blemishes.
The end of the window ledge remains sawn off a jagged angel at one end and has 
not been capped off properly.
Miss W explained that she had originally asked her builder to provide a quote to repair the 
end of the windowsill and damaged paint work. Then, depending on the outcome of the 
ombudsmans decision she was going to look at how to proceed with getting a UPVC 
specialist to provide a quote for repairing the damage to the surface of the window ledge. 
However, she hadnt yet had a chance to obtain those quotes. 
In order to resolve this outstanding issue, in one attempt, Miss W said she would ask her 
builder to remove both of the damaged windowsills and replace them with new windowsills. 
She has provided an updated quote, for £835 (dated 28 February 2022) which includes that 
additional work. Miss W has also said that, in relation to the scratched glass, if the builders 
quote can be covered, then she will live with the scratched glass. 
Ive taken both Miss Ws and AXAs further comments into account in making my final 
decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss W and AXA have accepted most of the conclusions in my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to depart from those conclusions. Therefore, it only remains for me to address the outstanding issue of the repairs to Miss Ws window. 
AXA have agreed to pay the first quote of £475, however, Miss W doesnt feel that 
addresses all of the outstanding issues. Miss W has provided an updated quote of £835 
which she feels would adequately settle her claim.
Ive looked at the two quotes and have considered the works and materials they include. Ive 
also considered the fact that AXA have been provided with an opportunity to obtain their own 
quote for the completion of the repairs, and theyve also had an opportunity to pay the lesser 
amount to Miss W, when they first confirmed their contractor couldnt repair the window and 
were sent the quote. 
Having done so, I think Miss Ws updated quote provides a reasonable basis for AXA to 
settle the remaining element of the claim. An additional £200 has been included for labour, 
which covers additional work to be completed in relation to the replacement of the 
windowsills and the related works, and an additional half day at the property, for the 
completion of the works, which allows time for the paint to dry in between coats. Also, an 
additional £160 has been included for materials which includes the new PVC windowsill and 
associated materials. 
So, taking everything into account, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance Plc to 
pay Miss W the sum of £835 included in the updated quote, together with the compensation 
previously agreed. 
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant and require AXA Insurance Plc to pay 
Miss W:
£835 to settle the balance of Miss Ws claim in respect of damage to her window; and 
£1000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of
the way AXA has handled the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance Plc to pay 
Miss W the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman