DRN-1844863
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) closed his 
credit card account without giving the required notice. And, as a result, breached the terms 
and conditions of the account.
What happened
On 19 December 2019 Barclaycard gave Mr H 60 days notice of its intention to close his 
credit card account on 17 February 2020. 
Mr H complained to Barclaycardraising a number of issues about this. And he received a 
response from Barclaycard addressing theseconcerns. But Mr Hsays he doesnt agree with 
one aspect of the response  the notice period he was given. He saysBarclaycard breached 
the terms and conditions of his account because these say he should get two months notice 
of its intention to close his account. And that two months notice in this case is 62 days as 
there are 31 days in December and January. So, the account should have closed on19 
February 2020. 
In response to this point Barclaycard said that as a rule it considers a month to be 30 days 
and that it didnt make a mistake. And it didnt agree with some of the other issues raised by 
Mr H. But it did accept that the letter it sent Mr H shouldve included its business address 
and a contact number. So, it paid Mr H £100 compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused. 
Unhappy with Barclaycards response to notice period given to him, Mr H referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into this and concluded that 
Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong. He acknowledged that the terms and conditions 
didnt specify that a month was calculated as being 30 days rather than a full calendar 
month. But he felt the letter sent to Mr H about the account showed the date of closure and 
cleared up any ambiguity. So, he didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt accept this outcome reiterating that there are 31 days in January and December. 
He remained of the view that his account had been closed two days too soon. And he 
maintained that the terms and conditions werent clear and that he expects this service to 
hold Barclaycard to account for this. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I 
know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision as I can see how strongly he feels about 
this issue, so Ill explain why.I think it would be helpful to explain that we dont fine or punish the business we cover. 
Thats the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, this service 
cannot hold Barclaycard to account as Mr H has suggested. Our role is to look at what 
happened and decide if Barclaycard did anything that caused Mr H a financial loss or 
material distress and inconvenience. And if so, to tell the Barclaycard to put things right.
Mr H has told us that the issue he didnt accept in Barclaycards response to his complaint is 
the notice period he was given before his account was closed. And, Ive treated this as the 
crux of his complaint. So, I wont comment on everything Mr H complained about to 
Barclaycard.
Its not in dispute that Barclaycard had the right to end its relationship with Mr H. These 
provisions are set out in the terms and conditions of the account. But Mr H says the notice 
period in the terms and conditions isnt clear. And I accept Mr Hs point that the terms and 
conditions refer to the notice period as being two months rather than specifically saying 60 
days. 
But as mentioned above, what I need to decide is whether Barclaycards actions caused Mr 
H a financial loss or material distress and inconvenience. And, as our investigator has said, 
the letter Barclaycard sent Mr H on 19 December 2019 specifically said the account would 
close on 7 February 2020 i.e. 60 days later. So, I think Mr H had enough time to repay any 
balance owed or make arrangements to get a credit card account with another provider to 
the extent he wasnt unduly inconvenienced. And Mr H has told us he hasnt suffered a loss. 
Considering all the aboveand the roleof this service, I wont be asking Barclaycard to take 
any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11July2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman