DRN-3686490
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Grove Pension Solutions Limited gave him unsuitable advice to
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in her
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
The scheme Trustees initiated an exercise referred to as Time to Choose in October 2017
in which members were offered the option of joining the new BSPS2 scheme or remaining
in the existing BSPS which would subsequently move to the PPF. Those members with
more than 12 months before their normal retirement age also retained their statutory right to
transfer out of the scheme altogether.
On 21 November 2017, Mr H completed a Grove fact find and attitude to risk questionnaire,
as he recalls, with his current financial adviser. The personal details collected about his
circumstances can be summarised as:
He was 26 years old, single and in good health,
He was living with his parents.
He was employed full time with Tata Steel and had been for six years.
He was earning £38,000 a year or £2,200 net a month. No monthly expenditure was
recorded.
He owned a buy-to-let property valued at £80,000 with a remaining mortgage of
£50,000 due to be repaid in under 9 years.
He had £44,000 in deposit based savings.
Hed joined his workplace defined contribution scheme contributing 6% and the
employer a further 10% of his salary.
He had a death in service benefit of around £120,000.
He said he may wish to retire gradually from age 55 and anticipated needing £15,000
a year in retirement.
There was no specific need to access a lump sum before retirement.
As part of the same exercise, Mr H was presented with a list of 23 generic objectives and
asked to pick from these. The sheet said:
There are many reasons that you may have for considering a transfer. Please answer all of
the following statements with Yes if this is potentially an issue, No if it is not or N/A if you
dont believe it to be applicable, adding any further reasons or comments in the Notes box.
Those he selected N/A for included:
I wish to break all ties with my former employer as I have concerns about their
viability
The guarantee provided by the PPF is valuable to me
and
I am not concerned about the guarantee provided by the PPF
My H didnt answer No to any statements and those he answered Yes to were:
Improve retirement benefits
Have pension in a different format than the scheme provides
Improve death benefits before retirement
Improve death benefits after retirement
Has concerns about old company scheme which is in deficit
Maximise tax free cash at retirement
Consolidate pension benefits
Have greater control of investment strategy
Have control of pension benefits
Have flexibility of taking benefits from age 55 onwards
Do not want a pension annuity
Have control of income in retirement
Want to retire early
Want to retire later
Want to phase in retirementMore specifically, from the notes made of Mr H objectives, his motivations could be
summarised as:
Control over pension due to a concern about reduction to future benefits in either the
PPF or the BSPS 2.
Wished to move benefits away from employer control.
Wouldnt rely on this income in retirement, due to rental income and state pension.
Grove wrote to Mr H on 2 January 2018 with its client agreement, noting the referral from his
existing adviser. The following day an illustration of the recommended plan was produced,
assuming investment in the cash fund. A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report was also
produced based on Mr Hs existing BSPS benefits at his normal retirement age.
On 30 January 2018, Grove wrote to Mr H with a suitability report detailing its personal
recommendation for him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a collective retirement account with
Old Mutual Wealth. The initial adviser fee of £1,500 was confirmed, as was the ongoing fee
to be paid to his current adviser of 1% a year. The product charge was to be 0.5% and the
average weighted fund charges a further 0.69%. Mr H signed and returned this on 5
February 2018, accepting the recommendation.
Mr H complained to Grove about the advice hed been given in November 2021. Grove
responded in December 2021, declining to uphold the complaint. It did, however, offer to pay
Mr H £10,000 as a gesture of goodwill in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr H referred the matter to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. She said
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it
was in an individuals best interests.
Mr Hs main motivation behind the transfer seemed to have been flexibility and
control over his pension funds. But Mr H was entitled to an impartial review of his
options and management of his concerns over the scheme and his employer. And
this would have involved a separation of the emotive concerns he was having at the
time and his true retirement objectives.
There were some contradictory answers in Mr Hs choice of the generic objectives,
but they could be broadly grouped into: flexibility to retire from age 55 in a different
way from taking the scheme benefits; maximising tax free cash; improving death
benefits; and controlling his pension investment strategy.
In terms of improving the retirement benefits, the illustration for the recipient plan was
based upon cash investment with the notion that the investment decisions would be
taken over by Mr Hs existing adviser. But this gave Mr H no meaningful indication of
what his benefits might be in retirement.
The advice had been given after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates.Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 4.4% pa for the period both up to Mr Hs normal retirement
date (65) and to age 55.
Pension illustration growth rates set by the regulator were 2%, 5% and 8% for low,
medium and higher projected returns.
This compared to respective required critical yields to match the BSPS benefits at 65
of 6.96%, and to match those in the PPF, it was 5.97%.
Taking these figures into account, even on the basis that the BSPS 2 revaluation
rates wouldnt have been as favourable as those within the BSPS, the critical yields
werent reasonably achievable, and there was no reasonable prospect of Mr H
improving upon the scheme benefits.
The TVAS report also estimated that, by drawing an increasing income equivalent to
that available from the BSPS, the fund at the medium rate of return would run out by
age 86.
In terms of the flexibility argument and requirement for tax free cash, Mr H was at the
time 26 and so had over 30 years until he would be able to access his benefits. It
was therefore difficult to reasonably assess what his income needs were likely to be. 
It was therefore difficult to justify the transfer on the basis of unknown future flexibility
requirements, especially when Mr H would be relinquishing valuable guaranteed
benefits which would be revalued in the intervening years in a virtually risk free (to
him) environment.
Mr H couldnt have retired before age 58 by the time he had reached retirement age,
but he didnt in any case have any clear plans to retire early. And again, any such
plans could change quite significantly in the intervening years, and so it would have
been more prudent to reassess this closer to the time.
The defined benefits would constitute a relatively small part of Mr Hs likely overall
pension provision, with over 30 years defined contributions throughout the remainder
of his working life. These by their definition would have offered Mr H any flexibility he
required in income.
There was also no clearly defined reason as to why Mr H would have needed the
higher tax free cash entitlement which would have been associated with the transfer
to the PPP. And the risk of losing the guarantees was disproportionate compared to
the potential of increasing a tax free lump sum which was projected to be in the
region of £3,900.
Although the death benefits would have been formatted in a different way, with any
remaining pension fund paid as a lump sum, Mr Hs circumstances may well have
changed given his young age, which would have meant that the spouses and
dependants benefits became of higher value. And to add further context to the
importance of death benefits at that time, the individual nominated at that time as
being Mr Hs beneficiary was his mother, which was a reasonable indicator that he
envisaged that the situation may change in the future.Further, Mr H had no health issues which would mean that death benefits would have
been of concern at that point, and hed indicated that death benefits werent a priority
for him at that time. He also had death in service benefits and the return of his
defined contributions if he wished to leave a lump sum to his mother. And the
financial needs of Mr H should have been given prominence over any legacy for
family members.
In terms of the control over his pension investment strategy, Mr H had indicated that
he has some experience of investments, and had self-selected both the medium and
adventurous options for his attitude to risk.
COBS 9.2.3 provided guidance on the information required about Mr Hs knowledge
and experience, which included:
1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client
is familiar;
2) the nature, volume, frequency of the clients transactions in designated
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.
Mr Hs experience and knowledge hadnt been sufficiently explored to the required
extent. It was likely that he understood the principle of risk/reward, but his
participation in the defined contribution scheme wouldnt have constituted much
experience by that point. Nor did his ownership of the buy to let property imbue him
with knowledge of complex pension matters.
And so his lack of knowledge and experience didnt sit comfortably with his recorded
higher than average attitude to risk. And other than the state pension which wouldnt
have been payable until his late 60s, the defined benefits were his only source of
guaranteed income. So any generic and unsubstantiated need for control of these
pension funds was significantly outweighed by the loss of the guaranteed benefits.
Although the suitability report said that the investment advice would be given by Mr
Hs existing adviser, the FCA required that the ultimate investment of the funds be
considered as part of the transfer. Grove did envisage that this would be closely
aligned with the particular portfolio offered by the PPP provider, which was broadly
consistent with a moderate to adventurous investor.
Mr H had complained about investment performance, but as the responsibility for
investment decisions after the transfer had fallen to Mr Hs existing adviser, Grove
couldnt be held responsible for any departures from the anticipated investment
strategy.
It may not have been straightforward to challenge any preconceptions held by Mr H
about the scheme and his employer, but Grove had the responsibility and opportunity
to do so and advise him that transferring wouldnt be in his best interests.
Mr H may have acknowledged the risks associated with the transfer, but his concerns
should have been properly managed and assuaged, rather than simply echoed. It
wasnt evident that the safeguards in place to protect Mr Hs pension funds were 
discussed.Risk warnings may have been provided, but the provision of these wouldnt mean
that unsuitable advice had been rendered suitable.
Mr H hadnt been placed in a properly informed position to be able to take personal
responsibility for his decision to transfer.
Taking account of Mr Hs circumstances, including his attitude to risk, lack of firm
objectives and the guarantees which he could have retained, Grove should have
advised against the transfer. And had it done so, Mr H would likely have accepted
that advice.
The investigator recommended that Grove undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr H
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Hs pension plan, but if this
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr H, with a notional deduction for the (assumed
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings. Grove didnt initially provide a response, and
so the investigator informed both parties that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman
for review.
The investigator then informed Grove that hed enquired of Mr H as to whether, if the
complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the
existing basis, or to await the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress
calculations.
Grove did then reply. And whilst not commenting specifically on the merits of the
investigators findings, it said the following in summary:
The consensus between the FCA and this service was that, assuming a transfer
wasnt appropriate, the only compliant advice would have been to assist the client in
choosing between the BSPS 2 or the PPF.
The early retirement reduction factors between the BSPS 2 and the PPF were almost
identical, assuming retirement at age 55.
It anticipated that Mr H would have needed to take the tax free cash to fund his early
retirement  and every client it had assisted since 2007 had taken their tax free cash.
The commutation rate for tax free cash was significantly better under the PPF.
Mr H had said that he preferred a retirement age of 55 and also that he had would
have a couple of properties and the state pension, and so he wouldnt just be relying
on these pension funds in retirement.
The viability of early retirement, given his likely assets by age 55, had been clearly
set out to Mr H. And Mr H had also confirmed that, given his additional pension
contributions over the next 40 or so years, and the state pension, transferring was a
risk he thought he could afford to take.
And so the logical conclusion, and with the benefit of hindsight, was that, if Mr H
didnt transfer, the advice at the time would have been to opt for the PPF. As such,
any redress calculation should be undertaken on that basis.
The investigator replied to say that she had already set out her reasons for the
recommended redress basis, but she confirmed that Groves position on this would be
added to the file for the ombudsmans consideration.The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS
consumer redress scheme. But, she said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Grove to use the
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr H.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, they should let her
know by 5 June 2023.
Grove then wrote to both the investigator and Mr H saying that, given the length of time that
the mater had been outstanding, it would abide by the investigators findings and would be
undertaking the BSPS-specific redress calculation using the most recent quarter date. It also
said that it would pay any additional ex gratia payment recommended by the investigator.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review. I note that we havent as yet been
informed that the redress calculation has been undertaken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Grove has confirmed that it will abide by the investigators conclusions, but I
would confirm that I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for broadly
the same reasons. And my comments would be as follows.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Grove advised Mr H were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Grove, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Grove 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Hs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to                        
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors   
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later than 
when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Groves advice to Mr H in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
The financial case to transferGrove obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the
transfer to meet Mr Hs objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
Given what was known about the proposed BSPS 2 and Mr Hs own projected benefits, I
think it ought to have been possible to produce critical yields for that proposed successor
scheme as well as the BSPSP and PPF. But in the absence of those, I think that assuming
critical yields somewhere between those for the BSPS and the PPF wouldnt be
unreasonable in estimating those which might be required for the BSPS 2.
But as noted by the investigator, the critical yields would still have been higher than the
growth rate which would reasonably have been projected for an investor such as Mr H. And I
also agree that its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year
on year, for the number of years that Mr H had until he reached either early or normal
retirement age.
And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Hs best
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr H would be relinquishing.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that Grove did
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as Grove will be
aware, and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable
advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this
also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. Grove needed to be satisfied,
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr H.
As Ive said above, Groves reasoning for the recommended transfer, despite the likely
inability of the transferred benefits to match those which would have been produced by the
scheme, was that Mr H required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances,
objectives, and concerns about his employer and the pension scheme.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do
acknowledge, as did the investigator, that Mr H may have understood the principle of
risk/reward which would be associated with the transfer, and that there may have been
discussions around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same
process.But I have the same concerns as the investigator regarding the self-selected adventurous
categorisation for Mr Hs attitude to risk, given his lack of investment experience. Mr H had
some capacity for loss, having joined the replacement defined contribution scheme, and so
would likely have accrued the bulk of his retirement provision through money purchase
benefits. But this would have made a relatively small amount of defined benefits more
important in terms of having some guarantees of income. Through transferring, Mr H was
effectively putting a lot of his eggs in one money purchase basket. Any reduction in the
benefits payable from the OPS would therefore have had an impact on his financial security
in retirement.
But I also dont think Mr H in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr H would have
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs.
But other than concerns around the employer and associated scheme, which Ill address
further below, its unclear as to why Mr H would have wanted or needed such flexibility at the
cost of valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk associated with the transfer,
and bearing in mind his (likely) average attitude to risk and apparent lack of any similar
historical investment which might otherwise reasonably indicate a preparedness to take risks
with all of his pension income.
Ive also thought about whether Mr H could meet his objectives of retiring early whilst also
retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And in my
consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr H to take tax free cash
from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income.
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr H would have accrued around 40 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 30 years by age 55. Given the likely value of
this separate pot of money on the basis of the employer and employee contribution rates,
this could be used to plug any gaps between him starting to take flexible benefits and his
OPS/state pension benefits beginning. Its possible that he could have relied on the
proceeds of his defined contributions plan for flexible access to pension benefits, from
whatever age after 58, and then taken guaranteed benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the
PPF as and when needed.
Ive also noted what Grove has said about Mr H being best advised to join the PPF rather
than the BSPS 2 on the basis of the enhanced tax free cash offered by the former, and that
he would have likely needed to access this to retire early. But I disagree. I dont think Mr H
would have needed to access the relatively small amount of tax free cash from his defined
benefits before 65, given the likely size of his defined contributions pot by that time.
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped the value of his
defined contributions over the years left to age 65 (on the assumption that Mr H did in fact
wish to retire early in 30 years time)  although I would say that I dont think the actual
income requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could in any case
reasonably have been known with any certainty given his distance from retirement - Mr H
could then have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.On the matter of Mr Hs concerns about the scheme and his employer, as with others in his
position, I think its fair to say that Mr H would have been concerned about the future of the
BSPS and his associated benefits. But as set out by the investigator, Mr Hs concerns
around this should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be
instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about
the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA
is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced
view of the available options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the
employer, even if Mr H distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which
had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the
necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and
in fact by the point of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than
not to be a viable alternative. There were still conditions which still needed to be met for the
BSPS 2 to be established, but when the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect
of the BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative to this  the BSPS 2. In fact,
I think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the contrary.
The prospect of Mr Hs accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. But even if
this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with valuable
benefit guarantees.
And so I think that, had Mr Hs concerns been better managed, the seeming driver for having
control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Mr Hs plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 30 to
40 intervening years between then and him reaching retirement age. Any flexibility
requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, that point  and Mr H would have
been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
As set out above, I also think that Mr H could have achieved a degree of flexibility with his
pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he ultimately decided that flexi
access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could have been established
closer to his actual retirement age  Mr H or his adviser could then assess at that point
whether the transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, and as with the investigator, it follows that I
dont think the mooted early retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and
flexibility of, income, was sufficient reason for Mr H to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
Its fair to say that, if Mr H remained single, the lump sum death benefits offered by the
transfer would likely be more beneficial to Mr Hs extended family.
But I dont think this could reasonably be a justification for transferring Mr Hs benefits.
Firstly, he had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any
likelihood to not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable
amount of time, were of concern at that point.
The second is that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals
retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for extended family members. The
recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Hs best interests.And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. The desire
to leave a legacy cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr Hs own personal requirement to
benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to leave any such legacy should have
been properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits Mr H was relinquishing, and Grove
should have advised him that his own financial benefit took priority here.
There was also no suggestion as to why a lump sum would have been important to Mr Hs
mother in the event of his death. As with the investigator, I think this was likely a default
nomination which would quite feasibly change in the course of the next 30 to 40 years,
especially if Mr Hs relationship or family situation changed over that time.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Hs mother
or extended family by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to
transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr H personally.
What should Grove have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Hs decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr H. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr H to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of Grove to
explain to Mr H why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Hs scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr H was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr H, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Hs
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling
reasons for Mr H to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 26.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Hs concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future
pension which would, other than the state pension from his late 60s, be entirely dependent
upon investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would
otherwise have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds (and Id reiterate the point above
about the relatively low amount, and associated significance, which he would receive from
the defined benefits). Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme,
should Mr Hs relationship and family circumstances change in the future, albeit in a different
format from those available from the PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As set out by the investigator, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the
mid band growth rate set by the regulator.
Taking account of Mr Hs circumstances, including his likely attitude to risk, his objectives
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS
2 or the PPF, my view is that Grove should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr H would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr H, nor was
it in his best interests.
At least two of the key benefits sought by Mr H were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of
scheme benefits which would have been available to him (or indeed through the PPF).
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Hs likely attitude to risk with regard
to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it
was unlikely, albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS,
or a successor scheme, could be bettered through the transfer.
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6,
Grove would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring
wasnt in Mr Hs best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the
BSPS-specific circumstances.
Ive also noted Groves preparedness to calculate any redress due to Mr H on that basis.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme. There would be a 10%
reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt
cut the starting entitlement for deferred members. And so, with this in mind, and for the
reasons set out above about likely not needing to access the relatively small amount of tax
free cash from his defined benefits  even if he wished to still retire early in 30 years time 
my view is that Mr H would have opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.Grove Pension Solutions Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Grove Pension Solutions Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our
service upon completion of the calculation.
Given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr H would
take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined above, of
accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required. Compensation should
therefore be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in
the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Grove Pension Solutions Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Grove Pension Solutions Limited offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, Mr H may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr H
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also
recommend that Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Grove Pension Solutions 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Grove Pension Solutions Limited. Further, its
unlikely that Mr H could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Grove Pension Solutions Limited to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman