DRN-3087976
The complaint
Mr F complains Society of Lloyds unfairly refused a claim under his farmer insurance policy. 
What happened
In the Spring of 2019 Mr F made a claim on his Lloyds farmer insurance policy. The gearbox 
of one of his tractors was damaged. He claimed under the accidental damage part of the 
cover. 
Mr F says the battery was flat so the tractor wouldnt start. He towed it about 100 yards. It 
still wouldnt start after an attempt at a jump start. His own garage got involved. It removed 
the transmission to find pistons broken. Mr F says the damage was caused by him 
accidentally not putting the tractor in neutral gear before towing it. 
But Lloyds refused to pay the claim. It didnt accept the damage had happened as Mr F 
described. It said it was instead caused by wear and tear or mechanical failure  causes of 
damage not covered by his policy. Mr F complained to Lloyds. But Lloyds didnt change its 
position.
 
Our investigator recommended Lloyds pay for the repairs. He was more persuaded by 
Mr Fs engineers report than what Lloyds had provided. He also said it should reimburse the 
cost of Mr Fs engineer report and pay him £400 compensation for being without the use of 
the tractor. Lloyds didnt accept that. But it offered to pay half of the repair costs. Mr F hasnt 
accepted that. And he wants more than £400 to make up for him being without the tractor. 
So the complaint has come to me decide. 
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied 
it in below. In it I explained why I intended to require Lloyds to pay Mr Fs claim by for 
damage to the tractor, reimburse him £2,270 he paid for it to be reassembled and pay him 
£3,500 in recognition of the impact of his tractor being unfairly out of use. Finally I invited 
Mr F and Lloyds to provide any further information they would like to consider before I issued 
a final decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Fs policy covers his vehicle against accidental damage. Mr F says he failed to put 
the tractor in neutral before towing it. The policy doesnt cover wear and tear and 
Failures, breakdowns or breakages of mechanical, electrical or computer 
equipment. Lloyds say the damage was the result of wear and tear or mechanical 
breakdown, rather than being towed in gear. 
Both Mr F and Lloyds have provided engineers reports. Both confirm damage to 
transmission pistons and cups. The difference of opinion is on why it happened. It 
seems to be accepted by all involved, and confirmed by the tractors manual, that the 
transmission can be damaged by towing not in neutral.
Mr Fs engineer couldnt find any hallmarks of wear and tear. He says hes consulted 
with a specialist for the brand of tractor who confirmed damage to gearbox is a 
certainty when operator fails to follow the towing manual if box is not disengaged 
correctly. The tractors manual does warn damage can happen if the tractor is towed 
in neutral. 
Lloyds engineer feels its unlikely towing the short distance reported would cause the 
damage. So he says its more likely to be mechanical failure. He says two brand 
specialists he contacted agreed with him. 
Lloyds engineer has also highlighted a fairly recent repair to the transmission. His 
opinion is it should have been, after the hours of use, replaced rather than serviced 
and repaired. He says the type of transmission often fails at the hours clocked and is 
usually replaced. 
This is a difficult one to decide. But overall theres not enough to make me think the 
cause was most likely wear and tear or mechanical failure. The tractor manual 
specifically states not to tow unless the transmission is in neutral. The job sheet from 
the garage states what happened. And the experts that the business engineer asked 
havent said it wouldnt happen, just that it shouldnt have happened in such a short 
towing distance. So on balance I think it most likely happened as a result of Mr F 
towing without neutral being selected.
The policy terms dont define accidental damage. An ordinary, everyday meaning for 
accidental is unforeseen and unintentional. Ive no reason to think Mr F intended or 
foresaw the damage. So the damage seems to be covered by the accidental damage 
part of Mr Fs policy. Because of that Lloyds decision to refuse the claim was unfair. 
When this service finds a business has made a mistake, we consider how it caused 
the complainant to lose out  and then what steps it should take to put things right. If 
Lloyds hadnt unfairly refused the claim it would have covered the cost of the repairs. 
So I intend to require it to do so.  
An invoice for the repairs has been provided by Mr Fs repairer. But this is now a few 
years old. So I dont think it would be appropriate to require Lloyds to simply pay that 
cost as a cash settlement. Instead I intend to require it to arrange for repair of the 
damage through a repairer of its own choice  or through Mr Fs if it prefers. It can 
cash settle the claim if Mr F agrees to the amount it offers.
Lloyds will also need to reimburse Mr F what he paid for his engineers report. He 
wouldnt have incurred that cost if Lloyds had fairly accepted his claim.
Mr Fs provided an invoice, for about £2,270, that he says hes paid. This was from 
December 2019. Its to cover the cost of his repairer reassembling the tractor. He 
says this was necessary as it had to be stored outside as there wasnt room to keep 
it in the workshop. He feels this cost wouldnt have been necessary if Lloyds had 
fairly settled his claim earlier in 2019. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to require Lloyds to cover this cost. I can 
understand why the repairer wouldnt want the tractor in its workshop indefinitely. I 
havent seen anything that makes me think Mr F had any other reasonable option. 
And as hes been without the money he paid for the reassembly, as a result of Lloyds mistake, it will need to add simple interest at 8% from the date he paid the invoice to 
the date of settlement.  
  
Mr Fs been without the use of the tractor for some time as a result of Lloyds unfairly 
refusing his claim. Our investigator recommended it pay him £400 to reflect that. In 
response Mr Fs said thats not enough. He feels his loss is much greater. Ive 
considered the various expenditure and loss of income hes referred to below. 
Mr Fs provided various invoices, totalling about £2,000, for tractors hes hired. He 
says he needed these as his tractor was out of use longer than it should have been 
due to Lloyds failing to settle his claim.  Hes provided invoices, coming to more than 
£6,000, for repairs to a second tractor of his. He says some of this is for extra wear 
and tear experienced as its been used more frequently because Lloyds didnt repair 
the damaged tractor. 
Mr Fs said he lost out on contracting work as a result of the damaged tractor being 
out of use longer than it should have been. His other tractor isnt powerful enough to 
fulfil the role. Hes provided records of work from the previous five years. These show 
charges averaging about £5,400 per year  although only £2,550 for 2018. And there 
are additional invoices. 
Ive considered everything Mr Fs said about these costs and loss of income. I accept 
Lloyds failure to fairly settle his claim has probably resulted in additional expenditure 
for him  and most likely some loss of income. So I think its only fair for Lloyds to 
pay something to make up for this.  
The difficult thing is for me to know exactly how much a fair and reasonable amount 
would be. I think its likely Mr F did have to hire tractors when he otherwise might not 
have. But I cant know for certain if every hire was as a result of Lloyds mistake. I 
think its likely his remaining tractor did experience increased wear and tear through 
extra use. But I cant be sure how much of that work would have been necessary 
anyway. In addition, he probably would have faced some repairs or maintenance 
costs for the damaged tractor if it had instead been in use. 
It seems likely Mr F did miss out on some contracting work as a result of Lloyds not 
repairing his tractor. But I cant really know exactly how much that might be. Its 
possible he may not have been offered as much work as in previous years anyway. 
And there may have been other reasons he was unable take it on. He did, for 
example, seem to earn less in 2018 than in previous years.  I also need to consider a 
chunk of the charges in the invoices is VAT. And I dont know what other additional 
expenditure, like wages or fuel, Mr F would have incurred from any contracts.   
As I say its very difficult to know exactly by how much Lloyds mistake has caused 
Mr F to lose out. I can also see its caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. So Ive taken that into account.  In the absence of anything concrete I 
need to come up with a figure. After considering everything £3,500 seems a 
reasonable amount to me. If Mr F or Lloyds disagree with that they can explain why 
in response to this provisional decision. 
Again, Lloyds should add simple interest to £3,500 as it caused Mr F to be unfairly 
without those funds. The payment covers different issues so there isnt a 
straightforward start date for the interest. So for practicality a mid-point date of April 
2020 seems fair.Mr Fs pointed out that hes had to pay the insurance for the tractor despite it being 
out of use. Ive considered this but he would have had to pay that even if Lloyds 
hadnt unfairly refused his claim. I appreciate he hasnt had use of the tractor  but 
Ive taken that into account above. So I dont intend to require Lloyds to refund any of 
his insurance premiums. 
Both Mr F and Lloyds provided responses to my provisional decision. After considering them 
I changed my position on certain aspects of the complaint. I wrote to both Mr F and Lloyds to 
explain my thoughts on their information and my thinking. Ive provided a summary below.
I agreed with Lloyds that the evidence regarding the case of the damage is conflicting. I said 
I still felt, based on the evidence available, that it was most likely the tractor being towed in 
neutral that caused the damage  so it was accidental damage as per the policy terms.
Lloyds said as the tractor had covered more than 10,000 hours any payment should be 
subject to a 50% contribution from the policyholder. Lloyds felt paying the full repair cost 
would result in betterment. I considered this and said I still didnt think a 50% settlement 
would be fair. But I accepted the gearbox wasnt brand new so felt it would be reasonable if it 
were to be replaced with a reconditioned unit  assuming one was available for a lower cost 
 rather than a brand new one.   
In response Lloyds said it wouldnt be able to provide a reconditioned unit. However, this is 
now of no consequence. Thats because Lloyds has since offered to settle the claim on a 
total loss basis. Ill return to this below. 
Mr F had sent in an updated repair estimate from his repairer. It was dated June 2021. I 
noted that it included the reassembly work Mr F said he had previously paid for. In response 
I said I still intended to require Lloyds to cover that cost. But only if Mr F can provide 
reasonable evidence, such as a receipt from the repairer, that he had paid it. In response he 
confirmed he had indeed paid for the reassembly. He explained the repairer had mistakenly 
included the cost in the latest estimate. Ill return to this below. 
The June 2021 updated estimate includes vehicle storage costs of about £2,000. Lloyds had 
said it would be unfair to require it to cover this cost as prior notification wasnt provided, plus 
the storing garage may benefit from the repair payment. I agreed it would have been 
reasonable for Lloyds to have been given prior notification of any potential storage costs. 
That would have allowed it the opportunity to minimise costs  through arranging alternative 
storage for example. I said therefore I didnt intend to require Lloyds to cover the storage 
costs. 
Lloyds disputed the £3,500 compensation I awarded. It said theres no evidence to 
suggest repairs to other tractors are in any way related to this claim. I said Id considered 
evidence from Mr F of the impact on him, and his business, of the claim not being paid. I 
referred to various invoices and accounts with explanations of their relevance. 
I said its difficult to know the exact amount. But having considered the evidence I thought it 
most likely some costs and losses set out by Mr F did result from the tractor being unfairly 
out of use. I said having considered everything I still felt £3,500 still seemed a 
reasonable figure to reflect that. 
Mr F had said his tractor had decreased in value over the period its been out of use. He felt 
Lloyds should compensate him for that.  In response I explained a reduction in value over 
time is something that would likely have happened without Lloyds mistake. So I said I 
couldnt fairly say Lloyds is responsible for, or should make any payment to reflect, any loss 
in value.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F recently provided a new engineers report. It recommended consideration be given to 
settling the claim as a total loss  against a pre-accident value of £25,000. Having seen the 
report Lloyds offered to deal with the claim as a total loss. It proposed two possible 
settlement options. A payment of £25,000 with Lloyds keeping the salvage  or Mr F 
retaining it for a deduction of £8,750.
Mr F didnt accept either proposal as he feels the market value should be closer to £35,000. 
He explained the model of tractor is hard to come by. He also says an autosteer feature, 
costing £2,500, adds to its value. 
I think Lloyds proposed settlement is fair and reasonable. So I will require it to settle the 
claim on a total loss basis. The £25,000 is based on the pre-accident value provided by 
Mr Fs own engineer in two different reports. Mr F hasnt provided anything, like adverts or 
alternative valuations, to persuade me £25,000 isnt a fair valuation. 
I note that Lloyds salvage charge is a little higher than the figure provided by Mr Fs 
engineer, £7,500. But Ive no reason to doubt Lloyds when it says thats what it would 
receive if it were to sell the salvage. So it will be fair for it to deduct £8,750 if Mr F does 
choose to retain the salvage. 
I still require Lloyds to pay Mr F the reassembly costs. As I explained previously, I can 
understand why the repairer wouldnt want the tractor in its workshop indefinitely. So it had 
to be reassembled to move it elsewhere. It was Lloyds mistake in not agreeing the claim 
that lead to the need for that. The total loss settlement doesnt change that.  
I previously said Lloyds should reimburse Mr F £2,270 for the reassembly costs. That was 
before I understood he was registered for VAT. So Lloyds wont need to include the VAT 
element. That means it will need to pay him £2,080. It will only need to do so if Mr F can 
show, by way of receipt or other, that he paid the repairer for that work. As Mr F will have 
unfairly been without those fund Lloyds will need to add simple interest at 8% - from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement. 
For the same reasons as given above I dont require Lloyds to cover the storage costs 
charged by the repairer. 
Lloyds will also need to reimburse Mr F what he paid for his engineers reports. He wouldnt 
have incurred those costs if Lloyds had fairly accepted his claim. Both reports have had an 
impact on the outcome of the complaint so its fair that Lloyds covers their cost.
Lloyds has continued to dispute the £3,500 I awarded for the distress and financial loss. 
Mr Fs said thats not enough. Hes referred to the impact the loss of the tractor had on his 
business. Hes recently said its caused him to lose his farm.
Ive considered everything Mr F and Lloyds have said. But I havent seen anything that 
changes my mind. I appreciate Mr Fs had a difficult time. But for me to be accept this issue 
was the direct cause of him losing the farm Id have to be provided with something quite 
persuasive. Mr F has only given a summary account. Its not enough to make me think this 
issue probably was the cause. For the reasons given previously I still feel £3,500 is a fair and reasonable amount for Lloyds to pay to compensate Mr F for the distress, costs and 
financial loss resulting from its failure to settle his claim at an earlier date.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Society of Lloyds to:
settle Mr Fs claim as a total loss based on a market value of £25,000 subject to any 
relevant policy excess  offering him the option to retain the salvage for a deduction 
of £8,750. 
reimburse him what he paid for the two engineers report  adding simple interest at 
8% from the date of payment to date of settlement.
reimburse him the £2,080 paid for the tractor to be reassembled on receipt of proof of 
payment  adding simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement and
pay him £3,500 in recognition of the impact of his tractor being unfairly out of use.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman