DRN-2442804
The complaint
Mr P complains that Freeway UK Insurance Services Limited applied charges when his 
commercial motor insurance policy was cancelled. He wants a refund of the charges.
What happened
Mr P looked for a taxi policy through an online comparison site and he was directed to 
Freeway where he took out a policy. Mr P said he didnt understand that Freeway was a 
broker. Freeway completed its validation checks and found that Mr P hadnt declared an 
accident from 2017. And it said he hadnt listed all his motoring convictions separately. So it 
said the insurer wouldnt be able to provide a policy. And it cancelled the policy and applied 
its £150 fee for arrangement and £25 charge for cancellation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
up to the comparison site to explain whether Freeway was a broker or insurer. She thought 
Mr P should have declared his accident and listed the convictions separately. She thought 
Mr P had accepted Freeways Terms and Business. These stated the non-refundable 
arrangement fee and the cancellation charge. And she thought Freeway had justified why it 
charged £150 to set up the policy.
Mr P replied that the Terms of Business werent clearly provided. He asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated that his policy was cancelled after hed tried to 
provide the information required. And I can understand that he would want a refund of his 
money. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with 
its terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
Mr P looked for a quote for taxi insurance on an online comparison site. He was asked for 
information about his claims or incidents within the previous five years. Mr P had been 
involved in an incident in 2017. But he didnt declare this because he thought the question 
referred only to when he was driving a taxi and he hadnt made a claim at the time. But I 
think the question makes it clear that it covers any kind of vehicle and any incident. And so I 
think Mr P should have declared the previous incident from 2017. 
Mr P was then asked about any motoring convictions in the past five years, as detailed on 
his driving licence. Mr P had six convictions totalling 18 points. The site explained how to 
record totting up convictions. But Mr P stated one conviction with 18 points. So I dont think 
he listed all his convictions correctly. 
Mr P was then directed to Freeways site to complete his purchase. I think this makes it 
reasonably clear that there is a separate underwriter for his policy. Mr P paid his premium, 
the policy was set up and policy documents were issued. 
Freeway then validated the policy and found that the insurer wouldnt offer a policy in Mr Ps 
circumstances. And so it told him the policy would be cancelled and it applied its charges 
according to its Terms of Business. 
Mr P said he didnt read Freeways Terms of Business. But I can see that to proceed with 
buying the policy he had to tick a box saying that hed accepted them. The Terms of 
Business opened in a new window. And I think it was for Mr P to read these before 
continuing with his purchase. 
I think the Terms of Business clearly set out Freeways charges. These include a non-
refundable arrangement fee of £150 and a cancellation fee of £25. I also think Freeway has 
provided a reasonable justification for the fees it charges. So I cant say that they are unfair 
or unreasonable and I dont require it to make Mr P any refund. 
Mr P was unhappy with the tone of the agent who called him to discuss the cancellation. I 
can see that Freeway agreed that he could have handled the call better and it apologised to 
Mr P. I think thats fair and reasonable and sufficient in the circumstances and I dont require 
Freeway to pay Mr P any compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman