DRN-3288470
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
On 6 March 2017, Mr G applied for a Marbles credit card and was given a limit of £600. He 
used the card regularly but in November 2018 stopped making payments and fell into 
arrears. Due to this, Marbles sent Mr G a default notice in November 2019.
In June 2020, Marbles were contacted by a debt charity on behalf of Mr G, who explained he 
was experiencing financial difficulty. Marbles placed Mr Gs account on a payment plan and 
agreed he could pay £1 per month. This was increased to £5 a month from August 2020, 
when a second default notice was sent. 
In January 2021, Mr G raised a complaint with Marbles as he felt they shouldnt have 
authorised the credit card in the first place, due to his financial background. 
Marbles responded to Mr Gs complaint and explained they are a second chance lender, 
meaning they will allow for negative information on a persons credit file, as their accounts 
have been designed to help those with a lower credit rating. 
They said that at the time of application, Mr G told them he was employed with a gross 
annual income of £21,600, and that he had an unsecured debt of £100. Following this, 
Marbles said they carried out further checks, and from these they were able to see that Mr G 
had two defaults with a total value of £2,700, the last one having been in place 14 months 
prior. They also couldnt see that Mr G had any adverse public records, payday loans, or 
accounts in arrears. He had four active accounts and one past search on his credit file. 
Based on this, Marbles said that Mr G met their acceptance criteria and as a result was 
given a credit limit of £600.  
In relation to the difficulties experienced by Mr G, Marbles explained that following contact 
from a debt charity, they set up an arrangement for £1.00 per month. This was then 
reviewed in August 2020 following further contact from the charity and was increased to £5 
per month.
Our investigator was of the opinion that Marbles had carried out sufficient checks when 
deciding whether or not to lend to Mr G. He explained that the credit limit offered was 
modest, and that it wasnt a requirement that Marbles should have checked Mr Gs bank 
statements. He also felt that what they had done since authorising the credit was fair and so 
didnt ask Marbles to remove any negative markers from Mr Gs credit file. 
Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will explain 
why. 
Mr G has said that at the time of applying for the credit card, a search on his credit file would 
have shown multiple defaults, and that he had previously taken out payday loans with 
different lenders. He said that he asked Marbles to increase his limit multiple times, which 
was declined, and that this should have prompted them to check his credit file and intervene.  
He also said that Marbles should have asked for his bank statements at the time, because if 
they had done this, they would have seen that he had a gambling problem, with his income 
going to creditors, spent on essentials like food and rent, and to multiple gambling websites. 
He has explained that their records would also show he withdrew cash at casinos and got 
cashback at betting shops before the change came into force stopping people from using 
credit cards at these facilities. 
Marbles have provided the results of the checks they carried out when deciding whether or 
not to lend to Mr G. Amongst other things, the data suggested that Mr G didnt have any 
accounts in arrears, no other payment arrangements or debt management programmes, no 
payday lending, and that his last default was 14 months prior to the application. I can also 
see that Marbles carried out an affordability check to see how much Mr G was earning. So 
on the face of it, Im satisfied they did enough to check whether the credit limit was 
affordable, and that Mr G would be able to repay it sustainably. 
Mr G has said that had Marbles checked his statements they would have seen that he had a 
gambling problem, with a lot of his credit being spent on gambling websites and cash 
withdrawals at casinos. While this may be the case, and while a lenders checks should be 
proportionate, its not a necessary requirement in all lending cases for the bank to ask for, 
and check account statements. 
Based on this, I am satisfied that Marbles carried out sufficient affordability and eligibility 
checks prior to agreeing the £600 credit limit, and that they made a fair lending decision 
when assessing whether the debt could be repaid sustainably.
Turning now to what happened after the account was opened, I can see from Mr Gs April 
2017 statement that as soon as he was given the credit card he spent over the £600 limit, 
and that he continued to spend either over the limit or remained very close to it. He also said 
that four months after getting the card he made multiple payments to a gambling website, 
which continued. 
Marbles have said that in total, they have refunded £96 in charges and have made further 
goodwill payments to Mr G. I feel this is fair. And since being contacted by the debt charity, I 
am satisfied that Marbles have treated Mr G positively and sympathetically by setting up the 
repayment plans, taking into account what he can afford to pay.  
We wouldnt usually expect a lender to consistently monitor how someone spends on their 
account, but we would expect them to act on any information they are provided with. Im 
satisfied that the approach taken by Marbles shows they acted reasonably, and in line with 
their obligations to treat their customers fairly. They also signposted Mr G to different debt 
charities that would be able to help if he was still experiencing financial difficulties. To be a responsible lender, Marbles have an obligation to report accurate information to the 
CRAs. Because of this, I wont be able to ask them to remove any of the markers on Mr Gs 
credit file. But he does have the option of adding a notice of correction if he wishes to. He 
will need to send this direct to the CRAs, and it will appear next to the marker entry for any 
future lenders to see. Mr G may find this link helpful if he wishes to do this: 
https://www.experian.co.uk/consumer/guides/notice-of-correction.html.  
Overall, having considered everything, I dont believe Marbles leant to Mr G irresponsibly 
and I am satisfied the checks they carried out were reasonable and proportionate. Because 
of this, I wont be asking them to refund any further interest or charges. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman