DRN-4075648
Complaint
Ms S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Ms S bought a solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Ms S alleges 
that the supplier misled Ms S into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Ms Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the evidence 
from the time of sale, which included Ms Ss testimony and handwritten notes, made it clear 
that the benefits of the solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system 
would not be immediately self-funding in the way Ms S says she was led to believe. So, the 
adjudicator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Ms S (through her representative) disagreed and said if they had any comments that would 
follow  but nothing has subsequently been sent in. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Ms S could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms S and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ms S and Ikano have submitted a number of documents including a credit agreement and a 
contract from the sale of the panels. Ms S has also provided her testimony and handwritten 
notes she made from the time of sale. Ive considered everything provided and Im not 
satisfied that the system was misrepresented to Ms S and Ill explain why. 
Evidence
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
and notes that the system will be funded by a 120- month (i.e. 10 year) loan from Ikano  
this also suggest Ms S was told her payments would be deferred for the first 6 months. 
Ms S has signed directly beneath this section  So, I think she wouldve, at the very least, 
seen this when she signed the document. 
Ms S went on to sign a credit agreement on the same day which set out that the system cost 
£5,500, the total amount payable (including finance charges) was £8,885.74, and that the 
monthly payment was £74.05. The term of the loan was also 10 years (120- months) with 
payments differed for the first 6 months (in line with the contract Ms S signed). 
Sometimes suppliers also provide a document setting out the estimated returns Ms S could 
expect to achieve from the system  which would indicate how the system and its benefits 
were presented to Ms S. But neither Ikano nor Ms S have been able to provide a copy (and it 
may be that one was never given to Ms S). 
I have therefore considered Ms Ss testimony in detail and in conjunction with the 
handwritten notes she made during the sales meeting. 
Cost: I can see that Ms S wrote down the cost of the system was £5,600 with 
monthly payments being around £79pm. 
Feed in Tariff (FIT): I can also see Ms S appears to have recorded her FIT payments 
would be between 178.43 (minimum) and £300 pa. She also noted down the system 
would generate between 2721kWh and 3100kWh in energy. 
Savings: Ms S also noted down that she would potentially receive £350 savings on 
bill but also noted down try use stuff during days and WASHING MACHINE. The 
unit rate of her electricity bills also appears to have been noted down as 17.3.
Further below  Ms S has written down savings? £650 ie £50pm.  
Ms S has also noted down Pay 4 self- 10 years
Self-funding 
So to me it looks like the supplier discussed the cost, the finance agreement, and the 
potential benefits Ms S could likely achieve from the system. 
It seems like on the day of sale, it was clear that Ms Ss estimated total maximum benefit 
was £650 (£300 in FIT and £350 in savings), and the amount payable under the finance 
agreement was £8,885 over 10 years. I think its apparent that to repay £8,885 over 10 years 
Ms S would need at least £888.50 annually to meet her loan repayment which is more than 
her maximum estimated benefit. 
It also seems clear that her monthly loan payments were over £70 (£79 during the 
discussion and her notes but only £74 in her actual loan agreement after it was processed), 
but she was only expected to get £50 per month in benefit. 
I appreciate there appears to be small discrepancies between the figures given to Ms S 
during the discussion and her formal written documents. This appears to have been caused 
largely due to the actual cash price being £100 less in the formal documents. Sometimes 
suppliers offer discounts to consumers which may lead to small changes in the cash price of 
the system. But this doesnt change my view of the complaint, as its still clear the benefits 
were less than the total cost. 
Im satisfied that the supplier made clear to Ms S what her estimated benefits were likely to 
have been, and these were less than the costs of the system (which I also think were made 
clear to her) during the sale. So I dont think the system was sold to her on the basis it would 
be self-funding. 
However, I recognise there is also a note suggesting the supplier did discuss the system 
being self-funding in 10 years. But given the amount of detail the supplier went into in 
relation to the potential benefits, and the clear shortfall in the figures, Im not persuaded that 
that the supplier guaranteed it would be self-funding in 10 years, or that the system was sold 
on the basis that it would be self-funding. Although I have no doubt that the potential for this 
may have been discussed. 
I also have to bear in mind that in relation to the savings, Ms S appears to have noted down 
that she should maximise her electricity usage during the day indicating they discussed that 
savings would be dependent on her own personal use  and the more energy she used 
during the day, the less shed have to purchase in return. And our investigator has already 
set out that it looks like Ms S is using less than that estimated by the supplier. 
However, while that may be true, I think it was clear from Ms Ss testimony and the 
documents, that the supplier was only providing estimates, and that these estimates were 
not guaranteed. That while the supplier may have discussed the potential for the system to 
pay for itself in 10 years, the supplier also made it very clear that the estimated benefits 
would not cover the monthly payments. I therefore think its more likely that Ms S understood 
that the system being self-funding wasnt guaranteed and she wasnt sold the system on that 
basis. 
I would add that based on Ms Ss representatives figures, it looks like Ms S is receiving an 
average of £233 FIT payments per year (so within the range of £178 to £300 estimated by 
the supplier). And based on her meter reading, the system is producing on average 3178 
kWh  which is more than the MCS document of 2706 kWh and her handwritten notes of 
achieving between 2721 kWh and 3100kWh. So, her system appears to be working as 
designed, broadly in line with the estimates and overperforming in terms of generation.
While the savings may not have materialized, as explained above, the figure given was an 
estimate, and was dependent on a number of factors such as how Ms S uses her energy 
during the day and night  which was made clear to her. So, I dont think Ms S not using as 
much energy during the day as anticipated, amounts to a misrepresentation and Im not 
satisfied that the supplier intentionally mis-led her. 
I have also thought about Ms Ss concerns around the time given to read documents before 
agreeing to the sale, that the technical survey took place after the sale and concerns around whether appropriate credit checks took place before Ikano granted the loan. However, I can 
see the system wasnt installed for several weeks after the sale so if Ms S had any concerns 
on review of the documents following the initial meeting, she would have had time to raise 
these with the supplier at the time. Additionally, I havent seen anything that suggests there 
were any changes to the contract following the technical survey and I can also see payments 
were maintained on the loan before it was settled suggesting there were no affordability 
issues. So, these concerns do not change my view of the complaint. 
Summary 
Overall, I think Ms S was provided with clear information setting out the likely benefit her 
system would produce  in conjunction with the cost  which shows the system wouldnt in 
all likelihood be self-funding from the outset. While the potential for achieving more than the 
estimates and the system paying for itself in 10 years may have been discussed, I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence here that it was guaranteed or the system was sold mainly on 
that basis. 
While Ive thought carefully about Ms Ss claims, bearing in mind her own testimony, and the 
evidence from the time of sale, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely 
there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint. So I dont 
think Ikano acted unfairly or unreasonably by not accepting her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman