DRN-1684729
The complaint
Mr B complains, for and on behalf of the estate of Mrs B, that Mrs B was paying for a policy 
with British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) that she didnt ever need or use. 
What happened
Mrs B had a homecare plan with British Gas. She paid a monthly premium by direct debit. 
Under the homecare plan, British Gas covered her boiler and central heating system for 
repairs/breakdowns etc. This cover also included an annual service for her boiler and repairs 
to plumbing, drains and home electrics.  
Mrs B passed away in June 2019. Shortly after this, her son, Mr B, discovered the homecare 
policy and complained to British Gas about it. He didnt think that Mrs B had been aware she 
had this policy or had any need for it. 
British Gas considered the complaint and refunded the annual premium for the most recent 
policy year as a gesture of goodwill, which came to just over £460. However, they didnt 
think they had done anything wrong. They explained that they had sent annual policy 
renewal notification letters each year to Mrs B as well as a few letters inviting her to book the 
annual service included with the policy. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response. He explained that Mrs Bs mental health meant she 
wont have been aware of this policy or read any letters that were sent because she often 
missed post and was partially sighted. He maintained that Mrs B had no use for the policy as 
she didnt use her central heating. He didnt think it was fair that the policy auto-renewed 
each year despite there never being any contact from the policy holder. So, Mr B referred 
the matter to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator thought British Gas had acted fairly overall. He said that they hadnt been 
made aware of Mrs Bs health issues and had sent annual reminders in line with the policy 
conditions. 
Mr B, on behalf of the estate of Mrs B, didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He 
remained of the opinion that British Gas had acted unfairly. He said that his mother was 
unable to read any letters and had never claimed or used the policy. He also said that British 
Gas would not have accepted a claim as the boiler had not been maintained through 
servicing. This comment didnt change our investigators mind  he explained that he didnt 
know if a claim would have been rejected and that the policy could have been of benefit to 
her. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that this must have been a difficult time for Mr B and his family and Im 
sorry for the time it has taken for this matter to reach a decision. My role here, however, is 
to give an impartial view on this complaint. I must therefore tell Mr B that Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator and so wont be asking British Gas to do more to 
resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B is unhappy that his mother was paying what he considers to be a significant annual 
premium for a service that she didnt need. He says she hadnt used her central heating 
system at home for around 6-7 years and so had no need to cover it. Whilst I appreciate 
that this might have been the case, this policy had a number of features that Mrs B could 
have had the benefit of. As well as providing cover for her boiler and central heating, it also 
protected her plumbing, drains and home electricals like kitchen appliances. Whilst I 
understand she never used it or the annual service option it provided, she could have made 
a claim at any time and benefitted from the policy. Many people have insurance and hope 
never to use it  they buy it for peace of mind knowing they are covered if its needed. So, 
the fact that, looking back, shed never made a claim on it wouldnt be a sufficient for me to 
now say the policy premiums should be refunded.
Although we cant be sure what happened at the time the policy was taken out, I am 
satisfied that it is more likely that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This is due to 
my experience of these types of policy. This means that all British Gas had to do, was 
ensure she had enough information to decide if the plan was right for her. I understand that 
it appears Mrs B never claimed on the policy or took full use of what it offered. And due to 
the time that has passed, I cant be sure what she was given or made aware of when she 
took it out. However, I would think that its more likely she was given a policy booklet which 
explained the features, as later examples we have been provided with do. These features 
were also explained briefly in the annual letters. So, there is not enough for me to conclude 
that this was mis-sold to Mrs B. 
Mr B has also raised a concern that as Mrs B was not having her boiler serviced each year, 
she wouldnt have been able to successfully claim if anything had gone wrong to them. 
Whilst this may have been the case, we wont know for sure. It wouldnt be fair to ask British 
Gas to refund premiums because Mrs B might not have maintained her boiler and so they 
may have declined a claim under the policy. The policy also provided cover for plumbings, 
controls and electricals and so had other benefits.  
I am sorry to hear that Mrs B was struggling with her mental health. I understand the impact 
that this might have had on her and that she may not have known what the policy covered 
her for or even if she had one in place. I would expect British Gas to treat Mrs B fairly in light 
of this. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that they were aware of her situation. 
Although it appears Mrs B never claimed on the policy or corresponded with British Gas in 
recent years, I dont think this is enough to have flagged to them that there was an issue with 
her mental wellbeing and that they needed to contact Mrs B or act differently. 
Mr B is also unhappy that the plan continued to auto-renew each year. British Gas hasnt 
been able to provide me with anything from the point it was sold to Mrs B, which is 
understandable given the time that has passed. However, whilst I dont have a copy of the exact policy document, I do have a later one that British Gas can provide. It states that the 
policy would automatically renew each year until they are told to stop. British Gas has also 
explained that they did send Mrs B at least two letters each year that the policy was in place. 
One was to explain that the policy would renew and one was an invitation for the annual 
service. I am satisfied that the policy renewed in line with the policy conditions and that 
British Gas did enough to let Mrs B know that this was happening and reminded her of one 
of the benefits she had under the policy of an annual service. 
Taking into account what Ive said, I havent seen anything which would allow me to say its 
more likely British Gas did something wrong when they sold and renewed the policy for Mrs 
B in this matter. I note that they have already refunded the last years premium to the estate 
and this is more than I wouldve asked them to do. As such, I wont be asking British Gas to 
do anything further. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with British Gas  can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of  
the estate of Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman