DRN-3789917
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc treated her unfairly by allowing her to make 
gambling transactions from her account. 
Miss D is represented throughout by her mother, Ms P. 
What happened
Miss D had a current account with Santander.
Ms P told us:
In March 2022 over a period of three days, Miss D made 42 transactions totaling 
£545 to a gambling site. She also made similar transactions through an account with 
another bank. 
She only became aware of the gambling transactions when the other bank contacted 
her daughter. 
Miss D is a minor and due to a medical condition is vulnerable and wouldnt have 
been aware of the impact of her actions. 
Santander should have identified that the transactions were being made to gambling 
sites when it would have been aware that Miss D was under-age. 
The other bank had refunded Miss D and admitted it shouldnt have allowed the 
transactions to be made, so Santander should do the same. 
Santander told us:
Miss D had made the transactions herself using her debit card and there had been 
no reason for it to block the payments.
It wouldnt be able to block all transactions made to gambling merchants, but in this 
case the merchant code was for entertainment not gambling - and Miss D had also 
ticked on the merchant site to say that she was over 18.
It hadnt refunded the transactions as there hadnt been a bank error. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said:
She hadnt seen any evidence that Santander were aware of Miss Ds vulnerability, 
so it didnt have the opportunity to put protective measures in place.
As the bank wasnt aware of Miss Ds circumstances, it only applied its standard 
checks on the transactions to check they were authorised by the account holder.
As the transactions were authorised, there was no reason for the bank to raise any 
concerns about the account.
Ms P didnt agree. She didnt understand why the other bank had identified the transactions, 
but Santander didnt and that there was no protection in place given Miss Ds age. Ms P also 
didnt think it was reasonable that Santander hadnt flagged the transactions as unusual 
given the amount in such a short period of time. So she asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The circumstances leading to the complaint arent disputed by either party, so I wont repeat 
these here. Its also not disputed by either party that Miss D made and authorised the 
gambling transactions, the key point is whether or not Santander should have done more 
when the payments were made. I dont think it should have and Ill explain why.
Santander said that it didnt stop the gambling transactions, as the payments had been 
made and authorised by Miss D. It also said that it wasnt able to stop transactions to all 
gambling sites and that Miss D had ticked to say she was over eighteen to make the 
transactions, and its likely the third-party gambling site wouldnt have allowed her to proceed 
had she not done this. 
Ms P says that the bank should have spotted the transactions as they were unusual for Miss 
D. However, whilst I recognise that previously there hadnt been any debits of this kind 
through the account, Ive looked at the amount and frequency of the payments and 
unfortunately, I dont think its reasonable for Santander to have flagged them as a concern. I 
say this because, the payments Miss D made ranged between £5 to £25. And whilst I 
recognise this may have been significant amounts to Miss D, in terms of payments which 
would be flagged by the bank, these were relatively small and therefore didnt alert the bank 
there was an issue. 
Ive also seen that at the highest point, there were seventeen transactions in a day which 
again, although may seem significant to Miss D, didnt appear concerning to the bank. 
Looking at Miss Ds statement I can see that although the transactions accounted for debits 
totalling around half the balance, there was still crucially a credit balance of about half 
remaining in the account. And as there were no restrictions or warnings on the account, I 
think it was reasonable that the payments werent questioned. 
Ms P says that regardless that Miss D had said on the gambling site that she was eighteen, 
the bank should have been aware that she was a minor and stopped the payments. She 
says Santander should acknowledge their mistake in the same way as Miss Ds other bank. I 
understand why Ms P feels this way and the impact this situation has had on Miss D. 
However, a bank can only see if a transaction is made to a gambling site if the transaction 
presents a Merchant Category Code this is a specific code that is used to identify 
merchants/sites by the goods or services they provide. 
There are many hundreds of category codes which are assigned to particular merchant 
types or names. In this case, the transaction was declared as an entertainment site not a 
gambling site  and therefore would have had the category code assigned to this type of 
site. This means that Santander wouldnt have been aware that Miss D was making 
payments for gambling transactions. I acknowledge this is likely to cause frustration for Ms P 
but unfortunately, its not something the bank or this service can ask the site to change. 
Ive also looked at the copy of the other banks response to see how it viewed these 
transactions differently to Santander. But I can see that the other bank also didnt say that it 
could or should have prevented Miss D making the transactions - only that it refunded them 
as a gesture of goodwill. So based on what Ive seen, I cant reasonably say Santander did something wrong by refusing to refund the transactions Miss D made just because another 
bank made a different decision.  
I understand that Ms P will be disappointed with my decision as she wanted all the gambling 
transactions refunded to Miss D. And theres no question here that Miss D is vulnerable or 
that she regrets misspending her money. However, based on the evidence from all parties I 
dont think Santander did anything wrong in allowing these transactions to be made from 
Miss Ds account. If Ms P has ongoing concerns about Miss Ds ability to use the account 
without support, she can speak to Santander to ask what options are available.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman