DRN-2093705
The complaint
Mr N complains there was a new dent in his laptop when it was returned to him after repairs 
by his gadget insurance provider, Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant). Hes also 
critical the laptop was initially being sent to his old address.
What happened
Mr N had a problem with his laptop, so he made a claim under a gadget insurance policy he 
had with Assurant. As part of that process, he packed his laptop up and sent it to Assurant to 
be repaired. Mr N says the laptop didnt have a dent in it when he packed it.
Assurant photographed the laptop about an hour after the couriers records say it was 
delivered to them. The photographs clearly show a dent in the underside of the laptop. 
When the repairs were done, Assurant sent the laptop back to Mr N. But he contacted them 
to say they were using the wrong address. Assurant stopped the package before it was 
delivered, and got it to the correct address the next day. 
When he got the laptop back, Mr N saw the dent. He complained to Assurant, feeling they 
should be responsible for fixing it, as the laptop was fine when hed sent it off. Assurant said 
the laptop was dented when they received it, so they didnt think they should be held 
responsible for fixing it. Mr N brought the dispute to us.
Our investigators view was that the photographs showed the laptop was probably already 
damaged when it got to Assurant. As they didnt cause the dent, he felt Assurant didnt need 
to do anything to put it right. And he felt the steps taken to deal with the package being sent 
to an old address had done a reasonable job of handling that issue. So he said Assurant 
didnt need to do anything else to resolve the complaint.
Mr N didnt agree. He felt Assurant would need to provide evidence of the laptops packaging 
before they could say the laptop was damaged in transit to them. Without this, he felt 
Assurant should be held responsible for the damage. 
The matters come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why, starting with the dent issue. 
I see that in their response to Mr Ns complaint, Assurant said cosmetic damage wasnt 
covered if the device still worked as expected. Looking at the complaint, Mr N wasnt saying 
the policy should cover this sort of damage  his complaint is that Assurant caused the 
damage so they should put it right. 
Its clear the dent happened some time before Assurant took their photo on the morning they 
received the laptop. Mr N says it wasnt there when he packaged the laptop up. Accepting 
that, it means the laptop was dented after Mr N had packed it. So either when he had it 
before giving it to the courier, when the courier had it before giving it to Assurant, or in the 
hour Assurant had it before taking a photo of it. 
The photos of the laptop that Ive seen seem to show three indentations to the dent. So Im 
thinking whats most likely happened is the charging plug, which I understand Mr N packed 
in with the laptop, pressed against the cover to dent it. 
That sort of damage could have happened any time after the laptop was packed up. So I 
cant really say Assurant caused the dent. It could have happened when the package was on 
its way to them. During the delivery stage, thered have been other packages around that 
might have provided the pressure needed to cause the damage. So it seems more likely to 
me that the laptop was dented then, rather than in the hour that Assurant had it waiting to be 
unpacked and photographed. 
And Assurant certainly arent responsible for the way the laptop and the plug were packed 
together, which would play a significant part in this sort of incident.
I find it reasonable too that Assurant didnt take a photo of the packaging they received the 
laptop in. Theyve said they only take photos of packaging when its damaged, which makes 
sense to me. A photo of undamaged packaging isnt likely to show anything of use, 
particularly if its items inside a package that have damaged each other. So I dont draw any 
conclusions against Assurant for not photographing the packaging.
As I cant link the dent to something Assurant did wrong, Im not going to uphold this part of 
the complaint against them. 
Turning to the return of the laptop to Mr N, I feel this shows the importance of good 
communication. By telling Mr N when and where the package was going to be delivered, the 
error was spotted and put right before it became a bigger issue. I appreciate it then took an 
extra day to be delivered to Mr N, but overall the timescale and service were reasonable, 
even if they werent perfect.
My final decision
While I can appreciate Mr Ns disappointment about his laptop being dented, I dont think 
Assurant General Insurance Limited did anything wrong here. So Im not upholding the 
complaint against them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020. 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman