DRN-4044532
The complaint
Miss C complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway irresponsibly gave her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In April 2022, Miss C acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from Moneyway. 
The cash price of the car was £12,911. Miss C paid a cash deposit of £2,695 and the rest 
was financed by the hire purchase agreement. She was required to pay 59 monthly 
repayments of around £300 with a final optional payment, if she wanted to own the car at the 
end of the agreement, of around £310. 
In July 2022, Miss C complained to Moneyway to say the agreement had been unaffordable 
to her from the outset and had Moneyway completed appropriate affordability checks it 
would have seen this too. 
Moneyway said it had completed adequate checks and these showed that the agreement 
was likely to be affordable to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneyway ought to 
have completed more thorough affordability checks before lending to Miss C. However, he 
said that even if more detailed checks had been done, he wasnt persuaded these would 
have revealed any affordability concerns and therefore didnt think Moneyway had made an 
unfair lending decision. 
Miss C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive had in mind, amongst other things, the rules and guidance for lenders within 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as CONC) within the regulators handbook.
Prior to lending, Moneyway were required to ensure the credit was affordable and 
sustainable for Miss C. There isnt a set list of checks it had to complete, but the type and 
amount of checks it did needed to be proportionate in the circumstances. What is considered 
proportionate will therefore vary with each lending decision. In deciding what proportionate 
checks ought to be, Moneyway needed to take account of this such as (but not limited to): 
the amount borrowed, total repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term and the 
consumers personal circumstances. 
As part of the application for the hire purchase agreement, Moneyway says Miss C declared 
she earned a monthly income of £1,200 and lived at home with her parents. Based on the 
information Miss C supplied, Moneyway estimated her living expenditure and calculated her 
existing credit commitments using information obtained from a credit reference agency. It 
said that after the hire purchase agreement payments, Miss C would still have over £200 in 
disposable income each month. Based on this it concluded the lending was affordable. 
However, I dont think the checks Moneyway completed were proportionate in this case. I 
say this because the credit check it completed showed that Miss C had defaulted on another 
credit commitment relatively recently and had experienced significant payment difficulty on 
another hire purchase agreement which had substantially lower monthly repayments. While 
I accept that Miss C paid a cash deposit of over £2,500, I think the information on her credit 
file indicated that she might struggle to repay the hire purchase agreement. 
I therefore think Moneyway ought to have done more to verify Miss Cs income and regular 
committed expenditure. It isnt clear what evidence Moneyway would have asked for, but in 
the absence of it having done anything else, Ive reviewed copies of Miss Cs bank 
statements. Im not suggesting this is what Moneyway needed to do, but I think the 
information contained in them give a good indication of what Moneyway would likely have 
discovered about her financial circumstances if it had done more thorough checks. 
The statements show that Miss Cs income was lower than she declared, but her committed 
expenditure was also significantly lower. It seems Miss C received a large lump sum of cash 
the month before she entered into the hire purchase agreement and used this to clear most 
of her debts. This means her ongoing credit commitments were lower than Moneyway had 
calculated. 
The bank statements Miss C has provided indicate that she had sufficient disposable income 
to be able to afford the hire purchase agreement. I therefore dont think that more detailed 
affordability checks would likely have led to a different lending decision. For this reason, 
I dont think Moneyway acted unfairly in granting the hire purchase agreement. 
In response to the adjudicators findings, Miss C raised a separate concern about not being 
allowed to withdraw from the hire purchase agreement. However, as she hasnt yet raised 
that specific complaint with Moneyway and given it an opportunity to respond, I dont have 
the power to consider that specific issue within this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 
6 June 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman