DRN-1493231
 
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about confusing information she received regarding her investments, 
in a letter from J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services Limited.
What happened
Mrs R had holdings in two investment products with J.P. Morgan - an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and an Open-ended Investment Company (OEIC).
In April 2019, J.P. Morgan sent Mrs R a letter stating theyd no longer be offering ISAs and 
Investment Accounts, so would no longer be able to manage her account. Mrs R took this to 
refer to both her investments, when in fact, an Investment Account was not a generic term 
but referred to a specific product.
J.P. Morgan gave Mrs R three options. They said she could:
transfer her account to [a preferred provider, hereafter Business A],
transfer her account to another provider of her choice, or
sell her investment. 
 
Mrs R opted to contact another provider (Business B) and made several telephone calls to 
discuss the process of transferring both her investments. 
Later, after calling J.P. Morgan to confirm her account numbers, it came to light they were 
continuing to offer OEICs and the letter shed been sent only concerned her ISA investment.
Mrs R continued exploring the transfer of all her investments to Business B. But when she 
found out J.P. Morgan didnt accept electronic transfer requests, she allowed her ISA to 
transfer to Business A and maintained her relationship with J.P. Morgan regarding her OEIC. 
Mrs R complained to J.P. Morgan, saying their letter was unclear and had led her to believe 
shed needed to move both her investments. She said shed wasted time and effort creating 
new accounts with Business B when it was not necessary. J.P. Morgan apologised for the 
confusion their letter had caused and said theyd raised feedback with a view to improving 
future communications. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She thought J.P. Morgans letter couldve been clearer and 
recommended they pay Mrs R £75 compensation. After listening to a call recording provided 
by J.P. Morgan - which our investigator felt supported Mrs Rs position regarding the initial 
letter - she increased her recommendation to £100 compensation.
J.P. Morgan accepted our investigators recommendation. But Mrs R didnt feel £100 
properly reflected the time shed spent dealing with the matter. She asked for a final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Since our investigator reached her opinion, Mrs Rs provided several call recordings of 
conversations she had with Business B during April 2019. Ive listened to the calls and taken 
them into consideration when reaching my decision. But the calls havent changed my 
overall view. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the letter J.P. Morgan sent Mrs R. It said:
I am writing to inform you that from 27 July 2019 we will no longer offer ISA and 
Investment Accounts, therefore we will no longer be able to manage your account. 
J.P. Morgans letter referred to one account number for Mrs R. Although her money was held 
in two different investments products - the ISA and the OEIC - the holdings were set up by 
J.P. Morgan under that same, single account number.
So given this, and the language of the letter, I dont think its unreasonable for Mrs R to have 
concluded that it referred to all her investments and that she had to start making provisions 
to move or sell them if she didnt want them transferring to Business A. So Ive considered 
next the impact the situation has had on her.
Im aware Mrs R made several calls and sent emails to Business B before J.P. Morgan 
confirmed that her OEIC wasnt affected by their letter. I can appreciate the frustration this 
must have caused. 
In the calls to Business B, Mrs R asked about their management fees in comparison to those 
charged by Business A and discussed the process for transferring her investments to them. 
Following these conversations, she agreed to transfer her ISA to Business B, setting up a 
new account to receive the funds. However, she was undecided about her OEIC at the point 
of learning that J.P. Morgan could continue to manage it. 
After speaking to J.P. Morgan, with the knowledge she didnt need to take further action 
regarding her OEIC, Mrs R continued to discuss the transfer of both her investments to 
Business B. The transfers only stalled when Mrs R established J.P. Morgan didnt accept 
electronic transfers, as completing manual transfer forms wasnt something she wanted to 
do.
Mrs R says she spent further time on the phone as a result of being misinformed about J.P. 
Morgan accepting transfers electronically. But Ive seen no evidence to say it was J.P. 
Morgan who told her this.
Its not possible to say exactly what Mrs R wouldve done, had J. P. Morgans letter been 
clear. All of the options required Mrs R to do something, the least being to sign and return a 
form to confirm she was content for her ISA to move to Business A. But the letter wasnt 
clear, so Mrs R reasonably assumed she had to move everything and set about making 
enquiries to inform her choice - not an unreasonable action considering the size of her 
combined investments. So Im satisfied Mrs R was inconvenienced because of the initial confusion. And that this wouldve been stressful to Mrs R as she tried to establish accurate 
information about what she needed to do. 
Im also aware Mrs R was frustrated by J. P. Morgans response to her concerns. My role is 
to consider the consequences of any failings on the complainant and look to address these 
through my decision. And taking everything into account, I think £100 is fair compensation 
for the inconvenience Mrs R experienced because of J. P. Morgans original letter. So, I 
wont be asking the business to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require  J.P. Morgan Trustee 
& Administration Services Limited to:
Pay Mrs R £100 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman