DRN-3195016
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Scottish Widows Limited led him to believe that his pension held 
no value.
What happened
Mr F has explained that having asked Scottish Widows for a tax certificate in relation to his 
pension fund he was led to believe his fund held no value. He says this caused him 
unnecessary distress that could have been avoided had Scottish Widows communicated 
more clearly.
Our Investigator considered Mr Fs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Mr F would reasonably have been aware his fund held a value and that as Mr F did not 
suffer a financial loss because of Scottish Widows actions, compensation was not required.
Mr F didnt agree with the Investigator, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F had a personal pension plan with Scottish Widows. On 3 June 2020 Mr F asked for a 
tax certificate. Scottish Widows wrote to Mr F on 4 June 2020 explaining that his plan was 
paid up in 1994 so he would not receive a tax certificate.
Mr F took the phrase paid up to mean his fund had no value. On 11 June 2020 Mr F called 
Scottish Widows and it was confirmed that his pension fund did have a value.
Scottish Widows also spoke to Mr F on 15 June and it apologised for any confusion the 
previous letter had caused.
I have looked at the letter dated 4 June 2020. It does state The above policy was paid up on 
1 November 1994.
I dont think the term paid up suggests the fund had no value. And I can see that Mr F had 
previously been advised in writing in February 2020 of the value of his fund, so I think this 
would have made him aware of this fact.
Even if Mr F did find the term paid up confusing Scottish Widows correctly informed him 
that the fund did hold a value the next time he spoke to it. So, I dont think it did anything 
wrong, and I wont be asking it to pay Mr F compensation.
Mr F has also explained that he would like Scottish Widows to change its wording so that the 
same confusion isnt caused moving forwards. But as a service we are unable to ask 
businesses to change their internal processes. We look at individual complaints based on 
their individual merits. 
As explained above, I dont think Scottish Widows has done anything wrong so I wont be 
asking it to take any action to put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman