DRN-3711522
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) unfairly suspended the use of his credit card.
What happened
Mr B says HSBC acted unreasonably when it suspended his credit card account at a time 
when he needed its support following the Covid pandemic, and it has failed to observe the 
rules set in place by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr B says his employment in the aviation industry was affected by the Covid pandemic. Mr B 
says he applied to HSBC for a loan to clear his credit card, but this was rejected and no 
forbearance was offered by them. Mr B says he explained to HSBC he needed the credit 
card account for his day to day living expenses as a safety net, but it still refused to provide 
him with any help - just telling him that his credit card account was being suspended. 
Mr B feels HSBC are using FCA rules as an excuse to reduce its risk and it hasnt followed 
the guidance provided by the FCA in his circumstances. Mr B wants HSBC to reinstate his 
credit card account and to be paid compensation for his time and the stress this matter has 
caused him. Mr B also says his request for a subject access request (SAR) was not actioned 
by HSBC. 
HSBC says it wrote to Mr B on several occasions regarding the persistent debt (PD) on his 
credit card account over a period 36 months  but no action was taken by him to address the 
issues it had raised with him about the PD on his credit card account. HSBC says it declined 
Mr Bs loan due to his overall financial position, but did ask him to discuss a payment plan 
with its PD team, but this option was refused by him as he was looking for an alternative 
financing arrangement.  
HSBC have accepted it made errors when dealing with Mr Bs SAR request but have since 
provided this to him and have paid him £100 for this and offered a further £50 by way of 
apology. 
Mr B wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt HSBC had written to Mr B on several occasions regarding the PD on his 
credit card account and this detailed the consequences if no action was taken, including the 
suspension of the credit card. The investigator felt Mr B wasnt happy with the options HSBC 
provided him because he wanted to retain the use of his credit card and a reduced interest 
rate. 
The investigator says there was no evidence to show that Mr B had discussed with HSBC 
that he needed his credit card for essential expenditure, nor did its previous use suggest that 
was the case. The investigator says HSBC have apologised for the delay in sending Mr B 
the SAR but its offer to pay him a total of £150 is fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B to be informed his credit card was 
being suspended due to persistent debt, even though he had never missed a payment to his 
credit card account and he needed the credit card for essential living expenses. As far as Mr 
Bs issue regarding his SAR request is concerned, I was pleased to see this has now been 
provided and HSBC have made a compensation payment for its delay. 
So, when looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC acted fairly when it suspended Mr 
Bs credit card account and if it should have offered any further help to him.
Its worth explaining persistent debt is when a customer pays more in interest and charges 
than the amount repaid to reduce the borrowing over a set period of time  here on Mr Bs 
credit card account. From the information provided to this service HSBC sent Mr B letters 
concerning his persistent debt in September 2018, December 2018, June 2019 and March 
2020. This is important as these letters state the potential consequences if no action is taken 
by consumers, and meets the requirements and guidelines set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
I can see Mr B applied for a loan to clear his credit card debt shortly after receiving the 36-
month persistent debt letter from HSBC in March 2020, but HSBC declined the loan request. 
Its worth saying here that I cant see Mr B ever contacted HSBC prior to the 36-month PD 
letter, even though these earlier letters did previously suggest he increase his monthly 
payments and it may suspend the use of his card. The 36-month PD letter did explain to Mr 
B that any loan application to clear his credit card debt was subject to affordability and 
applicable terms and conditions, and if a loan wasnt possible the alternative was for a 
payment plan to be put in place. This letter also goes on to explain if a payment plan was in 
place HSBC would suspend the use of his card. 
From the notes provided to this service I can see the card repayment option or referral to its 
collections team wasnt acceptable to Mr B, as he was looking for an improved interest rate 
option so at this point nothing was put in place. I can see that although HSBC under the 
conditions of the PD 36 letter could have suspended the card at this point in March 2020, it 
extended the use of the credit card account until November 2020, in line with the FCAs 
guidance at that time due to the Covid pandemic. So here I am satisfied HSBC did offer Mr B 
the support I would expect to see by extending the time before his credit card was 
suspended in November 2020. But here as Mr B wasnt happy to enter into a repayment 
plan, I cant say HSBC was obliged to provide any additional support than it had already 
offered. 
Mr B says he made clear to HSBC that he needed the credit card account for his essential 
daily expenses, but although I have listened to a number of call recordings, mainly regarding 
his complaint itself, I have not been provided with any telephone call recordings concerning 
this specific request. So, with that in mind I have considered what HSBC may have agreed 
to if that request was put to them. I have looked at the credit card account statements for a period of several months leading up to the 36 month PD letter, and aside from one £400 
cash withdrawal shortly after the PD 36 letter was sent to him, I cant see any evidence to 
suggest that the card was used for Mr Bs essential living expenses, rather it seemed in the 
main to cover Mr Bs incidental expenditure while travelling overseas. So, with that in mind 
Im not fully persuaded by his argument that it was needed for essential living costs, such as 
domestic bills, food and mortgage/rent for example. 
Its also worth saying that HSBC have told Mr B in its final response letter in December 2021 
that if he contacts its PD team it would consider removing the suspension of his credit card 
account, if an agreeable way forward can be achieved. Given the importance Mr B places on 
the need for his credit card, it would make sense for that discussion to take place and a 
mutually agreeable plan is then put in place. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable way 
forward here for both parties. 
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman