DRN-3169810
The complaint
Mr L complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided loans that 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr L took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date 
takenLoan 
amount Total amount 
payableLoan term Monthly 
repayment Loan status
1 15.3.2019 £250 £1,028.52 18 months £57.14 Paid 24.10.2019 
by loan 2
2 24.10.2019 £415.67 £1,710.00 18 months £95 Loan outstanding 
Mr L brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. 
In brief summary, Mr L felt that it wouldve been apparent to Loans 2 Go that the loans were 
unaffordable for him if proper affordability checks had been done. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint about all the loans and set out directions indicating 
what he thought Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that it had been entitled to 
rely on the information it had gathered and it didnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly 
towards Mr L in any way.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 
Go relied on when it decided to lend to Mr L. 
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go asked Mr L about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
Loans 2 Go used an online income checker to verify that Mr Ls minimum monthly pay was 
around £1,047. Relying on this figure for his net monthly income and taking into account 
what Mr L had said about his monthly expenditure, and what its credit checks showed, it 
calculated that Mr Ls monthly expenditure was approximately £849. It also allowed for a 
buffer of 10% of his verified expenditure to account for any fluctuations in Mr Ls monthly 
income or expenditure. Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr L shouldve been able to afford the 
monthly repayment on this loan. 
I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that, as our adjudicator mentioned, 
there was a lack of detailed credit history information. Many of the entries, including some 
important information that a responsible lender might reasonably have wanted to find out 
about, didnt record anything useful. That said however, there was some information shown 
 and I accept that its fair for Loans 2 Go to say that what could be seen wasnt especially 
worrying. The total balance on all Mr Ls accounts in the last month was recorded as £377, 
which I think was a relatively modest amount for someone in Mr Ls circumstances. And it 
was apparent that this reflected the balance on his credit card  and that he was within the 
£400 credit limit on the card. He was up to date with payments on his active accounts that 
were shown and there was no adverse information shown suggesting that he was affected 
by bankruptcy or in an arrangement with his creditors or that there were any active county 
court judgements.
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to 
lend  or whether, as our adjudicator suggested, that it should have prompted Loans 2 Go to 
do more in-depth checks. 
Loans 2 Go had downgraded the amount Mr L had declared as his income after 
checking this and increased the amount he said he was spending each month after 
doing its own credit checks. 
So I've taken into account Loans 2 Go was aware that information from Mr L didnt look 
like it had been entirely accurate  and potentially this called into question all the 
information he had provided about his spending and his financial situation generally. But 
set against this was the fact that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did showed admittedly 
limited information but, significantly, nothing unduly concerning. I think Loans 2 Go could see that Mr L had a history of taking out and repaying short-term and unsecured loans  on 
the face of it, that potentially raised a question about why Mr L needed to do that and why he 
still needed this loan. It wasnt clear how he intended to use the money. But it isnt unusual 
for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing other borrowing 
or even an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to 
prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
I think this was a finely balanced situation, and Im mindful that I must be impartial and fair to 
both parties. On balance, bearing in mind this was Mr Ls first loan application to Loans 2 
Go, he was applying for a relatively small loan amount and given the 18 months term and 
the low level of monthly repayments compared to his take home pay, I think the checks 
Loans 2 Go did for loan 1 were broadly speaking proportionate in the circumstances. So, 
I think Loans 2 Go was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it gathered (even if it 
was in some respects quite limited) and take at face value what Mr L told it about his 
financial circumstances. And I think the lending decision it made to provide this loan was 
broadly fair based on the information Loans 2 Go could see. 
Thinking about loan 1 overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that it was 
unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that the loan it provided looked like it ought to be 
affordable for Mr L or that there was enough other information to show that loan 1 would be 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him over the loan term. So for these reasons I dont 
plan to uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 1. 
So this is why Im not planning on upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 1.
  
Loan 2
Loans 2 Go carried out the same information gathering process as it had done for loan 1  it 
recorded broadly similar income and expenditure figures and its credit checks showed more 
or less the same information it had seen on its credit report obtained when Mr L applied for 
loan 1.
I agree with our adjudicator about this loan and I dont think Loans 2 Go acted fairly when 
Mr  L applied to top up his loan. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr L used loan 2 to pay loan 1 early and take out some extra borrowing. I have the same 
concerns about what Loans 2 Go could see regarding Mr Ls financial situation and credit 
history that I've mentioned above. And this time I think the onus had shifted to Loans 2 Go, 
as a responsible lender, to enquire more closely into Mr Ls finances. 
I say this because he was taking out his second loan when he was just seven months or so 
into his first loan term and he was topping up with some extra borrowing and adding to his 
overall indebtedness. He appeared to be continuing a borrowing pattern that was evident 
from looking at the credit checks Loans 2 Go did which reflected a history of taking out 
expensive loans. Mr L hadnt said why he needed the loan and it wasnt clear why he would 
still need to take out this sort of expensive credit or why he appeared to be a habitual user of 
high cost credit. It looked like he hadnt made any inroads into paying his credit card debt 
since he took out loan 1 - he was still close to the credit limit suggesting he might have been 
finding it hard to reduce his reliance on using his credit card. 
And there were other signs that were concerning. Loans 2 Go couldve seen that he had 
taken out a new loan taken just a few weeks after it provided loan 1 to him  and I cant see 
from the notes it sent me that this was either questioned or explained. It was also evident 
that Mr L had continued to take out and repay other short-term loans in-between taking 
loan 1 and applying for loan 2 and again it wasnt clear why he had needed to do this. Loans 2 Go could see another loan on his credit file was repaid just a week after hed taken 
out loan 1, which I think raised a question about whether Mr L had borrowed from one lender 
in order to meet his contractual obligations to another lender. In other words, he was relying 
on obtaining new credit to pay existing credit debt.
For all these reasons I think Loans 2 Go needed to do further checks to ensure it had a 
fuller understanding of Mr Ls finances before it could be reassured that loan 2 would be 
sustainably affordable. I dont think the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend on 
this occasion were proportionate in these circumstances.
So I've looked at what I think a proportionate check mightve shown had Loans 2 Go looked 
more closely into Mr Ls finances at the time.  
It was entirely up to Loans 2 Go to decide how to do more and better checks. Mr L has sent 
me his own credit report covering the period and this shows information that I think 
Loans 2 Go is likely to have discovered for itself if it had done what I consider would have 
been a proportionate check when Mr L applied for loan 2. 
I am aware that Loans 2 Go has now seen this credit report too. I think it will have seen that 
multiple loans from short-term loan and high-cost credit providers were taken in the run up to 
loan 1. Mr L also had other expensive loans outstanding when he took out loan 1 and theres 
more detail about his continued borrowing in-between taking loan 1 and applying for loan 2.  
I think it was now evident that Mr Ls finances were under significant pressure and there 
were clear signs that not only was he making no inroads into his existing debt he was taking 
on new credit commitments  all hallmarks that Mr L was in serious financial difficulties. 
I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr L had become reliant on expensive forms of 
borrowing and recognised the signs that he was dependent on obtaining new credit in order 
to fund his day to day costs and meet his other credit commitments. 
And Loans 2 Go shouldve found out that he was already committed to paying at least £344 
to other outstanding loans when took out loan 2  and late with his payments on one of 
those loans. 
These repayments alone were significantly more than the disposable income Loans 2 Go 
had calculated Mr L had available to spend. It should have been clear, had a proportionate 
check been done, that further lending was not sustainably affordable and should not have 
been provided. 
To sum up, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to 
have concluded that loan 2 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr L and so it 
shouldnt have provided it. 
So for these reasons, Im planning on upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 2.  
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think Mr L was aware he was taking high cost loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to 
at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to award 
any additional redress. 
But I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
He has however had to pay interest (and possibly other fees or charges) on lending that 
shouldnt have been provided to him. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of having been given 
loan 2. The repayments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr L keeping in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Mr L.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman