DRN-4215764
The complaint
Mr G complains Nationwide Building Society caused him to sell a car unnecessarily.
 
What happened
Mr G wanted a mortgage with Nationwide. He called Nationwide on 6 February 2023 and 
spoke to a mortgage representative, whom Ill call J. The purpose of the call was to record 
various details and arrange an appointment for Mr G with a mortgage advisor.  
As part of the discussion Mr G was asked about a car loan. Mr G explained his household 
was expecting a large payment which would be used to pay it off, but this might not happen 
before the mortgage needed to start. J explained that with the car loan repayments ongoing 
(about £550 a month), the amount Mr G wanted to borrow was unaffordable over any term. 
Mr G explained he needed the money to purchase a new home. J checked to see if the 
mortgage showed as affordable if the car loan was paid off. He said it did, but the loan would 
need to be paid off before the new mortgage started. Mr G said he would sell the car. J put 
Mr G on hold to check things and seek some assistance.
While on hold Mr G booked an appointment with a car selling website, so he could sell the 
car that week. He told J this during a mid-hold update. On his return J told Mr G mortgage 
advisors and/or underwriters might ask for proof the car loan has been paid off, or that the 
money is available to do so. J booked in an appointment for Mr G with a mortgage advisor, 
whom Ill call S, for 13 February 2023.
Mr G sold the car on 8 February 2023. When he spoke to S a few days later it came to light 
the affordability issue was because the term of the mortgage took Mr G into retirement. 
When S reduced the term, the mortgage became affordable, even taking into account the 
car loan repayments. Mr G says S said J should have known better. Mr G complained that 
hed sold the car, incurring a loss and inconvenience to his household, unnecessarily. 
Nationwide responded to say Mr G had been given information only, and not advice. It didnt 
accept it was responsible for Mr G selling the car. Mr G asked our service for an 
independent review. The Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld 
because he was satisfied Mr G had been led to believe he needed to pay off the car loan to 
get the mortgage. He recommended Nationwide pay Mr G £500 compensation.
Mr G accepted the Investigators recommendation. Nationwide didnt. It said Mr G chose to 
sell the car ahead of his appointment with S and without exploring other options with S. It 
later said, when challenged by the Investigator, that it was Mr Gs decision to sell the car 
without exploring all avenues. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find Mr Gs complaint has merit. J might not have been a mortgage advisor. But he did 
gatekeep Mr Gs access to one and had to check affordability. While I find J was 
professional, courteous, and helpful, Im satisfied Mr G was put in a difficult position. He 
needed a certain amount of money to purchase his new home and was led to believe this 
wouldnt be possible unless he paid off the car loan. We now know this was unnecessary.
While I accept Mr G would have been better off speaking to S before selling the car, that is 
with the benefit of hindsight. Mr G was told he might need to provide S with proof the car 
loan had been paid off, or that the money was available to do so. And J didnt suggest Mr G 
hold-off selling the car until hed spoken to S. I dont find Mr G proceeding to sell the car prior 
to his appointment with S unreasonable. It follows Im satisfied Nationwide is responsible for 
Mr G selling the car unnecessarily. 
Mr G has said selling the car unnecessarily caused him a financial loss. Like the 
Investigator, Im not persuaded I can fairly and reasonably require Nationwide to pay Mr G 
his alleged loss. I say this because him making a loss by selling and then purchasing a car 
isnt something which was reasonably foreseeable to Nationwide. And there is no accurate 
way to quantify the alleged loss in any case. 
But I am persuaded Nationwide caused Mr G directly (and through his household, indirectly) 
distress and inconvenience. He had the concern about getting the mortgage he needed for 
his new home, the hassle of selling the car quickly, and the frustration of finding out it could 
all have been avoided. His household was also without a car  unnecessarily  for a time. 
The Investigator recommended Nationwide pay Mr G £500 compensation for the impact this 
matter had on him. I consider that a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr G £500 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman