DRN-3795234
The complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him and his late partner a 
fee-paying Advance account in 2011. 
Mr B says that it was mis-sold as he subsequently found out that he could not use the 
benefits of the account.
What happened
I issue a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I have included an extract of my 
provisional decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I provisionally think the 
Advance account was mis-sold to Mr B. Let me explain why.
Ive started by considering whether or not Mr B was given a fair choice in opening the 
account. In this instance from what Mr B has said I am satisfied that this account was taken 
out in the knowledge that it was optional. I note that Mr B has said it was insinuated by 
HSBC that he could get a preferential rate on a mortgage and that it should have been 
highlighted that HSBC also offered similar rates to non-Advance account holders. Given the 
timescale involved it is difficult to see exactly how the mortgage rates compared, but my 
understanding is it that Advance account holders did get access to terms that differed to 
what was offered to normal account holders, so I dont think HSBC did anything wrong if it 
said this. 
I will next consider whether a personal recommendation was made for Mr B to take out the 
account. My understanding of HSBCs sales processes at the time the account was taken 
out was that it did make a personal recommendation as to whether the account was right for 
a customer. 
At the time that account was taken out the major insurance benefits were travel insurance 
and breakdown cover.
Mr B has explained and provided evidence that he drove a car which was over 15 years old 
and also rode a motorbike. At the time the account was recommended to Mr B neither of the 
above wouldve been covered under the breakdown cover. He also says that this led to two 
declined claims. 
Mr B has also said that his late partner would not have been covered under the travel 
insurance policy as she was being treated for cancer at the time of the sale. Firstly, I would 
like to pass on my sympathies for the loss of his Partner. In relation to the travel insurance it 
is possible that the condition that she suffered from would not have been covered though it is 
possible that with a medical screening cover could have been arranged.
That said though as this was an advised sale I cant see how recommending an account with 
main benefits of travel insurance and breakdown cover was suitable given that the 
consumers could not use the breakdown cover and likely could not use the travel insurance. 
I note that the sales documents which likely were provided during the sales process 
wouldve highlighted the above. But this does not obviate the need for advice to be 
reasonably suitable given a consumers circumstances at the time. Had this account not 
been recommended I dont believe that the upgrade wouldve happened. So I think that 
recommending this account caused a financial loss which HSBC need to put right.
putting things right
To put things right for Mr B, HSBC should do the following. 
 refund Mr B all the fees he has paid for the Advance account, 
 add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Mr B 
paid the fee until the date it makes the refund 
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must 
provide a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if requested. 
If HSBC can show that Mr B gained financially from the banking benefits that came with the 
Advance account (such as the cheaper overdrafts), then it may deduct the relevant amount 
from the compensation it works out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its 
calculation clearly.
In response to this provisional decision HSBC in summary said the following
that it did not believe that the sale of the advance account was carried out on an 
advised basis.
That Mr B did not mention the sale was advised. 
That when Mr B took out a mortgage a year later he chose a non-advised sale
Mr B travelled shortly after the sale of the account and therefore could have made 
use of the travel insurance
Mr B did not add anything further in response to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has said that it did not believe that this sale was advised and that Mr B did not 
mention that advice was given. Firstly I should clarify that Mr B did indicate that the account 
was recommended to him. Secondly my understanding of HSBCs sale process at the time 
was that an individual review would likely have been carried out and we have established 
that we believe that these individual reviews constitute, for the most part, as an advised sale. In any event the branch procedures from the time of the sale state that the member of staff 
before proceeding with the sale of the account must establish that the customer is eligible for 
the major benefits of the account. It also states that if the customer is not eligible this must 
be explained to the customer. It goes on to explain that if a customer has pre-existing 
medical conditions these must be disclosed to the insurer before completing the sale. 
I have explained in my provisional decision that Mr Bs partner (the joint account holder) was 
receiving treatment at the time of the sale for cancer. Had HSBCs own branch procedures 
been followed I dont think this sale wouldve continued as I find it unlikely that Mr Bs partner 
would have been covered. So overall, I am satisfied that this was an advised sale and even 
if it were not, HSBCs own procedures were not followed in that it did not properly establish 
the suitability of the account for Mr B and his partner. Had it done so, I find it unlikely that Mr 
B wouldve taken out the account given that his partner would likely not have been covered 
under the travel insurance and for the reasons set out above, he would not have been 
covered under the breakdown cover.
In relation to the mortgage sale, I dont think whether the mortgage was arranged on an 
advised, or non-advised basis is especially relevant to whether the packaged account, which 
was sold to Mr B a year earlier, was sold in an advised manner.
Finally, Mr B travelling shortly after the sale is again not relevant to whether the sale was 
carried out correctly. Yes it is true that Mr B and his partner may have been attracted to the 
benefits of the account, but this does not mean it was suitable if they were not in fact 
covered by those benefits.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr B, HSBC should do the following.
 
 refund Mr B all the fees he has paid for the Advance account, 
 add interest to each of these refunds, at a rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Mr B 
paid each fee until the date it makes the refund* 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must 
provide a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if requested.
 
If HSBC can show that Mr B gained financially from the banking benefits that came with the 
Advance account (such as the cheaper overdrafts), then it may deduct the relevant amount 
from the compensation it works out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its 
calculation clearly to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above it is my decision that I uphold this complaint and therefore 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr B the redress detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman