DRN-2473519
The complaint
Mr H complains about the mortgage he has with Santander UK Plc. He says that he has 
been awarded around £28,000 for interest rate issues but Santander UK Plc want to pay this 
off the outstanding balance of the mortgage. Mr H would like this paid directly to him.
He is also complaining about charges that have been applied to his account and service 
issues he has experienced with them.
What happened
Mr H has an interest only mortgage with Santander and has been awarded around £28,000 
due to an incorrect interest rate being applied to his mortgage.
From 3 January 2009 until 2020, Mr Hs mortgage was charged at Santanders standard 
variable rate (SVR). The terms and conditions of the mortgage state that he should not have 
been charged any more than 2.5% above the Bank of England Base Rate.
During this period, Mr H was charged more interest than he should have been, and 
Santander have now recalculated the mortgage to put Mr H back in the position he should 
have been in had the error not occurred.
Santander worked out that if Mr H was on the correct interest rate, he would have been 
£22,138.70 better off. They also added 8% simple interest to this amount, minus 20% tax - 
£6,789.19.
Santander offered Mr H £28,927.89 to put things right but told Mr H that this amount would 
need to come off his mortgage balance and not to be paid directly to him. 
Santander said that the payment would go towards the outstanding balance because the 
mortgage account was in arrears. They have said that the mortgage account has been in 
arrears since May 2005 and they had started litigation action because of this. Santander also 
agreed to pay £500 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for the service issues that Mr H 
had encountered.
Mr H wasnt happy with what Santander has said, so he brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought that Santander 
had done enough to put things right for Mr H so didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with this and still felt the money should be paid directly to him and he also 
had concerns about how the calculation was made. He also felt that the £500 that Santander 
offered was not enough.
As Mr H disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have sent us details of how they have calculated the amount they have offered 
Mr H. Based on what I have seen, I believe it has been calculated correctly and cannot see 
anything that makes me think that the amount of £28,927.89 is incorrect.
Ive then considered whether this amount should be paid directly to Mr H, which is what he 
would like, or paid against the outstanding mortgage balance as Santander have said they 
would do.
Mr H has had an interest only mortgage with Santander since 2004. The original amount 
borrowed was £83,600 and since then, his balance has increased significantly due to missed 
payments and fees and charges that have been added to the account. The information we 
have been provided shows that the balance then increased to around £115,000.
Because of this, Santander would like the amount they offered to be paid off the outstanding 
balance because they say the balance is now much higher than the original amount offered. 
And because the loan is on interest only, they feel that the amount they are offering should 
be paid off the outstanding balance. Even after Santander applied this amount of redress to 
Mr Hs mortgage account, the account would remain in arrears.
Due to the amount of arrears on the mortgage account, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Santander to want to apply the sum of around £28,000 to the mortgage account. I appreciate 
that this is money that Mr H shouldnt have been charged in the first place, but he also fell 
behind with his mortgage payments so I agree that Santander should be entitled to pay this 
off the outstanding balance.
Mr H has also complained about charges applied to mortgage and administration errors that 
happened on his mortgage account. I can see that Santander agreed to pay Mr H £500 for 
the service issues he encountered, and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Santander have confirmed that this payment can be made to Mr H directly.
With regards to the fees and charges, I have taken a look at the transaction history that 
Santander have provided along with the contact notes. I can see that the mortgage has been 
in arrears for a number of years and Mr H has found it difficult to maintain his monthly 
payments. There are a number of missed payments and Santander have applied charges to 
the account because of that. Ive thought about whether Mr H would have still been in the 
same situation had he have been charged the correct interest rate and I think he would have 
been. The mortgage account has been in arrears since May 2005 so its evident that Mr H 
was struggling to maintain his mortgage payments even before the error occurred. 
Santander also started litigation because of the conduct of the account and from what I have 
seen, and how long the account was in arrears for, I dont think they acted unreasonably in 
starting legal action. 
The terms and conditions state that Santander are entitled to pass on any legal fees which 
they pay for to the borrower, provided they are reasonable. They are also entitled to charge 
for late payments. The charges that have been applied are both reasonable in terms of the 
amount and also reasonably applied. I havent seen any charges or fees that have been 
charged that are not in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage account.
Santander also added over £27,000 worth of ground rent and service charges to the 
mortgage account that Mr H didnt pay. One of the conditions of the mortgage is that Mr H 
would pay any charges in relation to the property and this includes ground rent and service 
charges. Santander had an obligation to pay this on behalf of Mr H because the property 
management company or the freeholder could have started legal action to try and repossess 
the property in order to repay the debt. This would have put Santanders security against the property at considerable risk, so they made a commercial decision to pay these fees and 
charges on Mr Hs behalf. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage and these state that Santander 
can pay all reasonable costs relating to the property and can apply these to the mortgage 
balance. I therefore believe that this was a reasonable step for Santander to take and do not 
think they have been unfair in doing so.
Mr H didnt think that Santanders decision to start legal action was warranted. He said that a 
court date was set for 2 April 2020 and that he and his family would essentially be homeless. 
While I appreciate this would have been a difficult time for Mr H, having looked through the 
contact notes that Santander have provided, I dont think they acted unreasonably based on 
the arrears that had accrued on the account. 
The amount of redress in question has now been paid to the mortgage account. The most 
recent information we have received from Santander shows that the mortgage account is still 
in arrears even after the payment has been made. 
Repossession should be a last resort and I would suggest that both parties liaise with each 
other to agree a way forward. Santander should continue to treat Mr H fairly taking into 
account any exceptional circumstances that he is going through.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman