DRN-3132213
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 3 October 2017, Mr L applied for and was given a credit card account with Barclays. 
Mr L was given an initial credit limit of £2,500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2021, Mr L complained to Barclays to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr L didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ls complaint is that Barclays made credit available that was unaffordable. Barclays has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Barclays failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Mr L with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have 
caused Barclays to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr L told Barclays that he earned a good salary. Mr Ls bank 
statements show that Mr Ls account enjoyed an income that was not modest. And whilst it 
seems that Mr L was moving between employments, Mr L has provided us with a payslip 
for his new employment from the month in which he took out the card. That also shows a 
good level of salary. 
The bank statements that Mr L has provided suggest that whatever other monthly 
commitments Mr L may have had for other credit, the total income each month was 
roughly the same as his monthly expenditure. In saying that Ive noted the account was 
sometimes in credit and sometimes in debit. But there isnt anything about the statements 
that suggests the sort of financial difficulty that would have made the credit card 
automatically unreasonable lending. And the credit information Barclays had at the time 
suggested Mr L had no recent history of arrears or defaults on his unsecured borrowing. 
So, having considered all of that, and all the submissions made in this case, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led 
Barclays to think that the credit it provided Mr L was unreasonable. Further, Im not 
persuaded that what Barclays could see of his management of other credit ought to have 
prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. Mr L has mentioned other complaints 
he has had about unaffordable lending. Each case is decided on its own merits at this 
service. And I was sorry to hear the details of Mr Ls personal issues. But I want Mr L to 
know that I have considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have 
not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman