DRN-2379201
The complaint
Mr F complains that Arrow Global Limited obtained a County Court judgment (CCJ) against 
him despite the debt being subject of a Debt Management Plan (DMP). He wants the 
judgment to be set aside and compensation.
What happened
Mr F tells us that he entered into an arrangement to repay a debt which was owed to Arrow. 
He says the debt was amongst others that were being administered on his behalf through a 
DMP administered by an organisation Ill refer to as S. He says he maintained his 
payments to S and doesnt know why payments werent made to Arrow. He said that Arrow 
took court proceedings against him and that it obtained a CCJ in 2019.
Arrow told us that it had employed various debt collectors to recover the loan. And it said in 
its final response letter that a payment arrangement had been agreed through S in April 
2017. But other than one payment received later that month (£5) it hadnt received any 
payments since April 2017. It said that numerous efforts to contact Mr F hadnt been 
successful and a decision to take court proceedings had been made.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 December 2020. I said that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. And that Arrow had been entitled to take action as no 
payments had been made to it since September 2017.
Both parties have replied and I thank them for their responses. Arrow said it had nothing to 
add. Mr F didnt agree with my provisional view. And said that hed never tried to avoid the 
debt.
Ill deal with the points raised by Mr F in my final decision which is set out below. But Im not 
minded to change the outcome as stated in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr F would be upset at being taken to court about a debt which he thought 
was being paid through a DMP.
I need to explain from the outset that Im only able to look at certain aspects of Mr Fs 
complaint. And Im not able to set aside a judgment of a court or question if a CCJ should 
have been made. But I am able to look at whether Arrow has acted fairly in the way its 
sought to collect this debt prior to the CCJ.
Mr Fs complaint is that having entered into a DMP in order to repay several creditors, 
including Arrow, he doesnt think it was fair that Arrow issued court proceedings when hes 
kept up the payments to S. And hed thought that Arrow was being paid as part of the DMP.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Arrow purchased the debt which Mr F had owed to another business in October 2016. Since 
then the debt has been placed with various collection agents commencing with a company 
Ill refer to as C. And its not in dispute that as part of Mr Fs DMP an agreement was made 
with C, in April 2017, for monthly payments to be made.
Ive been supplied with information from both S and Arrow about the circumstances which 
led to the payments being stopped. That information is contradictory and doesnt fully explain 
what took place.
Arrow has stated that the debt was initially being collected on its behalf by C. And it said in 
its final response letter (FRL) that only one payment had been made to C (on 24 April 2017) 
before the agreement was broken. Arrow explained that it then transferred collection of the 
debt to a company Ill call N in July 2017. From then the debt passed through other 
collection agents until it was placed with a business Ill refer to as D. And it was D which, 
on behalf of Arrow, eventually commenced the court proceedings in 2019, leading to the 
CCJ.
I dont think that the timeline Arrow has provided is a wholly accurate statement of events. 
Its clear from the account statement which Ive seen that payments were received by C in 
each month between April 2017 and September 2017.
Mr F has also provided some account notes which he says has been supplied by S. 
Unfortunately, these dont appear to cover the period after 22 March 2017 and before 25 
September 2017. On this latter date its recorded that the creditor is no longer dealing with 
the account. And it later goes to record that a letter was sent to Mr F to this effect and 
advising him that the account was placed on hold.
Ive also seen a copy of an email which was supplied to this service in November 2019. That 
email is from S to Mr F. And it confirms that in September 2017, S had notified Mr F that his 
debt was on hold and that it would need updating within six weeks. As it (S) hadnt been 
updated the debt had been removed from the plan and no payments made.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As theres no record in S notes of the arrangement regarding the account collection being 
transferred in July to N, it seems probable the reference to the creditor no longer dealing 
with the account is a reference to Cs previous involvement. But why S doesnt seem to have 
recorded that the account collection had moved from C to N Im unable to explain.
As it happens, I dont think this changes things materially in terms of the outcome of this 
complaint. Ill explain why. S notified Mr F that the account was placed on hold and 
explained to him that if details werent updated, payments to Arrow would be removed from the DMP. I cant see that any further update was provided to S by Mr F. And so the payment 
to Arrow was removed from the DMP.
Between late 2017 and January 2019 various attempts were made by other collection 
agents, on behalf of Arrow, to communicate with Mr F. But these efforts dont seem to have 
been successful. Our investigator noted that the address and mobile phone number of Mr F 
was recorded correctly in Arrows records. So its not clear why no response was received to 
these requests for contact and payment. Certainly, Im not suggesting he didnt intend to 
repay the debt. It may be that Mr F simply assumed payments were still being made to 
Arrow and didnt pay close enough attention to the details of the contacts.
On 23 January 2019, D wrote to Mr F explaining that it had now taken over the collection of 
the debt. This was followed by further letters requiring payment but offering the possibility of 
a payment arrangement if Mr F was unable to pay the full amount immediately. Finally, a 
letter warning of impending court action was sent. As far as I can see no acknowledgement 
of these letters was made by Mr F.
 
But after the court claim had been issued Mr F acknowledged he owed the debt and I 
understand the CCJ was made, based on this admission. Since then Mr F has made 
arrangements to pay the debt by instalments.
As S had advised Mr F that the account had been put on hold and that in the absence of an 
update it would remove Arrow from the DMP, I find he knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, the payments were not being made to Arrow after September 2017. And letters sent 
later by collection agents also confirmed that the payments werent being made.
As he was offered the opportunity to respond to contact and make fresh arrangements prior 
to court proceedings being started I dont find Arrow did anything wrong in authorising those 
proceedings. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman