DRN-2352743
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc have breached General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) by disclosing another customers details to her.
What happened
Miss G says she raised a dispute with HSBC about a payment shed made on her credit 
card. Following this, Miss G received an email from HSBC. Miss G says this email contained 
her personal details as well as some details for another customer. Miss G worries that her 
personal information isnt very secure with HSBC and that her details may have been shared 
with their other customer. Miss G has asked for fair compensation. 
HSBC acknowledged that the email they sent to Miss G about the dispute shed raised, 
contained information relating to a different customer. HSBC say they reported the data 
breach and that this was an isolated issue down to human error. In recognition of the 
inconvenience caused, HSBC credited Miss Gs account with £50 compensation.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Miss G brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Miss Gs concerns. In summary, she said she was satisfied there 
hadnt been a breach of Miss Gs personal information and that HSBC had fairly 
compensated Miss G for their error. Miss G didnt agree. She reiterated she doesnt feel her 
personal information is secure with HSBC. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G received a form from HSBC in response to a payment dispute she made. Miss G has 
provided us with a copy of the form. The form has Miss Gs name on it, but Miss G says the 
credit card number on the form isnt hers. HSBC have acknowledged they sent Miss G some 
information that wasnt hers. And they have said this was purely down to human error. So, 
its not in dispute that something has gone wrong here.
I understand Miss G is concerned about her own personal data with HSBC. Miss G says she 
has lost faith in HSBC as she cant be sure her details werent shared with the other 
customer. HSBC havent been able to share the email that was sent to their other customer 
for data protection reasons. However, theyve looked at the email that was sent and have 
assured Miss G that her details werent shared with the other party. HSBC say if Miss Gs 
details were shared, they wouldve had to report the matter and Miss G wouldve been 
advised of this. Having thought carefully about this, I havent seen anything to persuade me 
Miss Gs personal details were compromised.
I can appreciate this would have been worrying for Miss G and I can understand why she 
may have lost faith in HSBC. But I think theyve fairly compensated Miss G for this error. So, 
I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman