DRN-3820951
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has 
handled his claim for damage caused to his house, by a storm.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr J made a claim for damage caused to his house by Storm Eunice. The 
claim was initially declined by RSA on the basis that the storm wasnt the sole cause of 
damage. Instead, RSA concluded that wear and tear and poor workmanship was the main 
cause of the damage.
Mr J complained to RSA about its decision and a final response letter was sent to him on 
14 October 2022, partially upholding his complaint. RSA explained that it had appointed two 
different experts to inspect the damage. The first, who Ill refer to as E, thought that some of 
the damage was caused by the storm, but the second expert, who Ill refer to as B, reported 
that many of the issues claimed for, had been present before the storm. As the experts didnt 
agree, RSA appointed a third expert, who Ill refer to as C, to investigate the claim. C was 
ultimately more persuaded by Bs report and concluded that the roof was already suffering 
from wear and tear and poor installation which was the main reason for any damage that 
was evident. However, RSA did agree that there had been some avoidable delays caused 
by RSA and its agents, and the complaint was upheld with regard to that element of Mr Js 
complaint. RSA agreed that Mr J had experienced a storm. However, RSA noted that Bs 
report observed, among other things, the following:
the ridge tiles had been broken and displaced prior to the storm;
the lantern wouldnt have lifted in the way described by Mr J, if it had been properly 
fitted; and 
the Velux window shows signs of previous repair and internal ingress of water.
As Bs report and Cs investigation showed the storm wasnt the main cause of most of the 
damage, most of Mr Js claim was declined. However, RSA said that it was possible the 
glass in the lower Velux window may have been smashed by debris during the storm, as 
accepted by its expert, E. RSA therefore said that it would consider a quote from a local 
contractor to repair the glass in the Velux window. Also, £150 compensation was paid to 
Mr J for the way his claim was handled by RSA.
Unhappy with RSAs response on his complaint, Mr J brought his complaint to our service. 
He explained to our investigator that the glass in the lantern and the Velux window had been 
smashed by flying debris, and the frame of the lantern had been twisted by the high winds 
during the storm. With regard to the lower Velux window, Mr J said it wasnt possible to only 
replace the glass, and hed had to have a new Velux window installed at a cost of £1,100. 
Mr J also said that the ceiling in his bedroom had sustained water damage because of the 
damaged lantern, and the water damage had extended to the laminate flooring underneath 
the lantern. Mr J also initially maintained that the winds blew the ridge tiles off the roof.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and, on 4 November 2022, issued her view 
partially upholding the complaint. In summary, she concluded that a storm had occurred and 
had been the main cause of damage to the glass in the lower Velux window, and to the three 
shattered panels on the lantern.  Our investigator also thought that RSA ought to pay Mr J a 
further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered as a result of 
the way it had handled his claim and complaint. 
RSA agreed with our investigators conclusions and said that it awaited a copy of Mr Js 
invoices for the replacement glass in the Velux and evidence of his costs for the repair of the 
glazing in his roof lantern. 
Mr J didnt accept all of our investigators findings. He maintained that the laminate flooring 
needed to be replaced as the storm damaged windowpanes had let water in. He said that if 
RSA wasnt going to carry out the repairs to the lantern then its cash settlement needed to 
also include the cost of scaffolding. He accepted that his claim regarding the roof ridge tiles 
wouldnt be accepted. However, he said the entire Velux window needed to be replaced, as 
it wasnt possible to simply replace the glass. 
Mr J requested an ombudsmans decision on his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr J is unhappy that RSA partially declined his claim and believes the extreme weather 
events were responsible for the damage caused to his property, not gradual wear and tear or 
faulty installation, as argued by RSA. So, Ive considered the claims decision reached by 
RSA to see whether it was made in accordance with the policy terms and conditions and 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Were there storm conditions?
It is accepted that there were storm conditions around the time Mr J reported the damage to 
his property.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage in this case, of windows being shattered, and damage being caused to the 
exterior of a property is consistent with damage typically caused by storm force winds.Was the storm the main cause of damage?
I have considered each element of the damage Mr J has claimed for under the relevant 
heading, below.
Damage to the lantern frame
During a call Mr J had with C he explained that on the night of the storm, hed seen the 
bottom right hand corner of the lantern lift approximately two inches from the frame, creating 
a space that he could see moonlight through. Then, during a call with our investigator on 
3 November 2022, Mr J explained that while the three glass panels were most likely 
smashed by flying debris from the neighbouring allotment, the lantern frame had twisted 
when lifted by the wind during the storm. 
RSAs surveyor, B, when asked to comment on this, said if the lantern had lifted that would 
be a significant event theyd have expected to be reported when the claim was first made. If 
the lantern had been installed correctly, B said it would not have lifted during storm 
conditions as it would have been anchored onto the joists below. 
Where the evidence is inconsistent, incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I make my 
decision based on what I think more likely than not, occurred. 
Im more persuaded by Bs evidence, than Mr Js in relation to this item of damage. If the 
lantern had lifted, I would have expected an event of such significance to be reported at the 
outset of the claim, and if the lantern had been fixed in such a way as to enable it to be lifted 
during a storm, then I find Bs suggestion that it hadnt been fitted correctly, to be persuasive. 
Im therefore of the view that the storm was not the dominant cause of any twisting of the 
lanterns frame, or other damage to the lantern, other than the three smashed glass panels. 
Water damage to room below lantern (including to the ceilings, walls and laminate flooring)
On 19 October 2022, Mr J emailed photos of the water damage that had affected the ceilings 
in his bedroom and his sons bedroom. Mr J explained that the ceiling in his room had been 
repaired, however, the twisted roof lantern continued to let water in and was no longer 
watertight.
Our investigator asked RSA for its comments regarding the water damage and it confirmed 
that the policy excluded cover for accidental damage caused by water entering the home. In 
addition, in any event, RSAs surveyor said any ingress of water likely occurred prior to the 
storm, given the discolouration of the flashband tape, the discolouration of the paint and 
general condition of the surrounding areas. He also observed that the Velux window on the 
rear pitch had been continually patched up with inadequate flashing which appears to have 
been leaking for a number of years, based on the water staining on the inside.
As Ive concluded that the storm wasnt the dominant cause of any damage to the lanterns 
frame, it follows that any damage resulting from the frame being twisted, also wasnt caused 
by the storm. In addition, I think it more likely than not, based on the available evidence, that 
the water staining pre-dated the storm.
Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions and note that at paragraph 17, cover is 
specifically excluded for any damage caused by water entering the home. I therefore do not 
require RSA to take any action in relation to the water-stained ceilings, walls or laminate 
flooring.
Damage to the three glass panels in the lanternOur investigator recommended that RSA pay for the replacement of the three smashed 
panels of glass in the lantern, on the basis that it had accepted the glass panel in the lower 
Velux window was also likely caused by the storm. RSA agreed to that recommendation. 
Having considered everything afresh, I agree it is reasonable for RSA to meet those costs. 
Mr J has said that RSA should cover the cost of scaffolding and installation of the glass 
panels, in addition to paying for the replacement panels. However, as there appear to be 
uninsured works that need to be carried out to the frame of the lantern, I think it reasonable 
for RSA to only make a fair contribution to any scaffolding related costs, as Mr J would need 
to carry out the repairs to the lantern frame, in any event, before the glass panels were 
replaced. So, on receipt of an appropriate invoice from Mr J, RSA should pay the reasonable 
costs of replacing the three glass panels in the lantern, (together with a contribution towards 
the cost of erecting the scaffolding, if applicable) together with 8% interest on that amount 
from the date Mr J paid the invoice to the date RSA reimburses him for that cost.  
Damage to Velux window
RSA accepted Mr Js claim with regard to the smashed glass in the lower Velux window, 
because it was difficult to say for sure that it wasnt smashed at the time of the storm.  
However, Mr J said he had to replace the entire unit at a cost of £1,100 as it was impossible 
to only replace the panel of glass. Our investigator recommended that RSA pay for the 
replacement of the glass in the Velux window, on receipt of an invoice from Mr J, showing 
the cost hed incurred for that. She added that if Mr J could provide an explanation from his 
contractor as to why it was impossible to only replace the glass panel, then he should 
provide that to RSA for its consideration. 
Based on the available evidence, which doesnt suggest that the frame was damaged by the 
storm, in the absence of any persuasive explanation from Mr Js contractor about why it was 
impossible to only replace the glass panel, RSA only need to pay for the costs relating to the 
replacement of the glass panel. However, I would expect RSA to give due consideration to 
any comments provided by Mr Js contractor that indicate otherwise.
In summary, on receipt of an appropriate invoice from Mr J, RSA should pay the reasonable 
costs of replacing the glass panel in the Velux window, together with 8% interest on that 
amount from the date Mr J paid the invoice to the date RSA reimburses him for that cost. 
Missing roof tiles
B concluded, on the basis of the available photographic evidence, that ridge tiles hadnt 
been in situ at the time of the storm. To support this conclusion, B highlighted that there was 
no evidence of mortar in that area, which would have had to be applied to hold the tiles in 
place. In addition, the building regulations in force, in June 2021, would have required the 
ridge tiles to be tied in place. No evidence of that was apparent either. 
Having considered all of the available evidence regarding the missing roof tiles, including the 
photographic evidence, Ive come to the same conclusion reached by our investigator, that 
the storm was not the main cause of the missing or damaged roof tiles. So, I wont be 
making any award in relation to this item of damage.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Mr J told us that RSAs handling of his claim has affected his mental and physical health, 
and has prevented his son from being able to stay at his house due to water directly dripping 
onto his bed. He also said his heating costs have skyrocketed because of heat escaping 
through the damaged items.In the final response letter, RSA recognised that there were some difficulties in the period 
when the claim was reported initially, and it accepted the complaint hadnt been properly 
processed. To compensate Mr J for that, £150 was paid into his account. However, Mr J 
didnt believe that was sufficient to make up for the distress and inconvenience hed 
suffered. Our investigator considered the impact on Mr J of RSAs handling of the claim and 
recommended that a further £100 compensation be paid to him. RSA agreed to our 
investigators recommendation. Having considered everything afresh, I agree with our 
investigator that an additional payment of £100 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr Js reasonable costs of replacing the glass in the lower Velux window, on 
receipt of an invoice for the same; 
Pay Mr Js reasonable costs of replacing the three glass panels in the lantern, on 
receipt of an invoice for the same;
Pay 8% interest on the two awards detailed above, from the date Mr J paid the costs 
to his supplier, to the date these awards are paid to him.  (Note: If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate); and 
Pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused 
by the way it has handled his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay the awards detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman