DRN-2236382
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing though an agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020. I explained that I wasnt 
expecting to uphold Miss Ms complaint, but I said Id consider any further information either 
party wished to provide. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
Miss M took receipt of a used car in March 2019. She financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement with BMF. At the point of supply Miss M tells us the car, which was a 
little over four years old, had already completed about 62,000 miles. 
Miss M says that the car needed an Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve replacement 
within the first few months and she says, at that time, a warning light had illuminated on the 
dashboard. She says that this light, and the associated error code, was deleted when the 
dealership replaced the EGR.
In November 2019 the car failed its MOT because an electronic stability control (ESC) 
warning light was indicating a fault. This fault was investigated and tied down to a failed 
transfer box. Miss M says that the warning light was the same one that showed when the 
EGR valve was replaced so she complained to BMF. She said the fault had been present 
since she took receipt of the car. She had the fault repaired and the car passed its MOT on 
22 November 2019. But she complained to BMF that the costs were their responsibility.
BMF didnt think there was enough information to demonstrate that was the case and they 
explained that they were only responsible for faults that were present, or developing, when 
the car was supplied to Miss M.
So, Miss M referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. 
She was persuaded by Miss Ms testimony that there had been a fault with the car from the 
beginning and that the initial warning light was the ESC warning light that had subsequently 
plagued Miss M. She thought BMF should therefore refund the money Miss M had spent 
getting the car fixed. 
But BMF disagreed with the investigator. They didnt think Miss M would have been able to 
drive 10,000 or so miles in the car if it had an ESC fault and they didnt think Miss M had 
provided evidence of the fault being present before shed complained to them, eight months 
after she took receipt of the car. They therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint. I know that will be very 
disappointing for Miss M to hear, so please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as such this service is able to consider complaints about it.
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who 
are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car 
here was about four years old and Miss M tells us it had completed in the region of 62,000 
miles when it was supplied. So, I think a reasonable person would expect it to be exhibiting 
some signs of wear and tear and not to be completely fault free.
The EGR valve appears to have failed in the first three months and I think its therefore 
likely, given the relatively short time Miss M had the car, that the EGR fault was present or 
developing when she took receipt of it. In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows 
the business an opportunity to repair the car and I can see thats what they did.
Miss M tells us that the ESC warning light illuminated when the EGR fault was present but 
that when she got the car back the warning light and the associated error code had been 
cleared by the dealership. She says this has resulted in her not being able to provide 
evidence the ESC warning light was on, albeit intermittently, well before it showed again in 
November when the transfer box needed replacing.
Im not persuaded that its likely the ESC warning light was showing at the time the EGR 
valve was replaced. I say that because I think its reasonable to suggest the EGR valve is 
not associated with the stability control of the car. It seems unlikely therefore that an EGR 
fault would generate an ESC warning message. And, as Ive not seen evidence that anything 
was done to the stability control system, if the warning light was extinguished I think its likely 
it would have reoccurred within a relatively quick time frame. But it wasnt reported to BMF 
for eight months.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation would look to Miss M to demonstrate the 
ESC/transfer box problem was present or developing at the point the car was supplied to her 
and I dont think she has been able to provide sufficient evidence that was the case. It 
seems the car had completed in the region of 10,000 miles in the first eight months and I 
dont think that would have been likely if the transfer box was developing a fault when 
Miss M took receipt of it.
So, Im not currently persuaded that BMF need to take any further action.My provisional decision
Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision and explained that she was upset with the view 
Id come to. She said the repair bills had been difficult to afford and shed provided enough 
information to show the fault was there from the beginning> She said the business should 
cover the costs as shed not even had the car for a year.
In support of their defence of the complaint the business sent copies of the job cards for 
work completed on the car; the original vehicle invoice and pre-sale inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss M has had to say but in the absence of any evidence that 
demonstrates the stability control issue was present at the point the car was supplied to 
Miss M I am not persuaded to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman