DRN-3881428
The complaint
Ms C says One Insurance Limited provided poor service after she made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Cs car was with garage K for a service on 25 November 2021 when it was damaged in 
an accident. Garage K said it would ensure the damage was repaired. Ms C informed One 
Insurance. She didnt make a claim initially, but as the garages insurer didnt contact her as 
promised, she contacted One Insurance again and was sent a claim form. One Insurance 
then instructed a repair network to appoint a garage and told Ms C the car would be uplifted 
from garage K and taken elsewhere on 1 December 2021. 
Garage K provided Ms C with a hire car from 3 December 2021. Ms C says the repair 
network told her the car was with another garage at that point, but when she called that 
garage it wasnt there. She was told it was with yet another garage on 7 December 2021, but 
it wasnt there either. The repair network then said it had faced problems in placing the car 
with three garages, due to a lack of capacity. Ms C made a complaint to One Insurance 
when she found the car was still with garage K on 10 December 2021. And a week later, she 
asked it again about the car being removed from there, as garage K wouldnt give her its 
insurers details. One Insurance suggested she should contact the police.  
One Insurance later accepted that there were delays in trying to instruct a suitable garage 
initially. But it said it had offered to refer Ms C to firm W on 1 December 2021 (before 
instructing the repair network). It said she could have had a like-for-like replacement car 
through that firm. One Insurance also said garage K had refused to co-operate with it, so the 
car couldnt be collected by its agents. In its final response letter in January 2022 One 
Insurance apologised for the initial delays and offered Ms C £100 compensation. It said it 
would advise her of any progress with the claim. Ms C got a call from it on 3 February 2022, 
confirming that shed be updated if there was anything to report.
Ms C replied to One Insurances final response letter to say that shed never been offered 
the services of firm W, and that her replacement car was provided through garage K. She 
said the police had told her the issue with firm K was a civil matter, and that she should get a 
legal representative - which she did. 
Meanwhile, on 3 February 2022 One Insurance contacted insurer N (which garage K had 
said was its insurer). But insurer N said it had only insured garage K until 2016. One 
Insurance then called garage K again. It wouldnt comment about its insurer, but it referred 
One Insurance to a repairer (garage H). Garage H wouldnt comment about the insurer 
either. One Insurances advisor informed Ms C of all this. She said her solicitor had 
established that garage H would be doing the repairs. One Insurance finally closed the claim 
on 6 April 2022 as notification only due to the lack of co-operation from garage K.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Cs complaint. She thought One Insurance had 
delayed in contacting insurer N initially and hadnt ensured the car was taken elsewhere for 
repair. As she thought it had failed to progress the claim, she said it should pay Ms C £250  
compensation in total for distress and inconvenience.  
Ms C then said she hadnt been paid the promised £100 by One Insurance, but that insurer 
N had paid her compensation. She also said that in March 2022 One Insurance had 
promised to refund some of her insurance premiums, but that it hadnt done so. One 
Insurance repeated that it had offered Ms C £100 for the initial delays in instructing a garage, 
but that garage Ks lack of co-operation meant it couldnt collect her car. One Insurance said 
it shouldnt have to pay further compensation for something that was outside its control.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, as follows:
Garage K and insurer N
In my opinion, its fair to say that garage K is responsible for most of the distress and 
inconvenience Ms C had to face. Not only did it damage her car in the first place, but it then 
failed to co-operate fully, either with Ms C or with One Insurance.
 
Ms C told us that garage K had promised to deal with the incident from the start - and that its 
insurer would be providing the cover for that. Its unclear what transpired between the 
garage and its insurer over the next few months. But Ms C told us recently that insurer N 
contacted her out of the blue, in March 2021 to say the car was a write-off. 
Although she got no paperwork from insurer N, she says she was paid £11,508.40 in April 
2022. She says that sum included an amount to compensate her for the first week after the 
accident, when she was without a car and was unable to work. Meanwhile, Ms C had been 
provided with a replacement car through garage K from a week after the accident. 
From Ms Cs account, I think garage K and insurer N eventually covered all aspects of her 
claim. Meanwhile, garage Ks lack of co-operation (plus, according to the garage, insurer Ns 
instructions  see below) meant One Insurance was unable to take the claim over.
 
One Insurances contact with garage K and insurer N
The notes on One Insurances file show that it contacted garage K in December 2021 by 
phone and by email to get its insurers details, but garage K didnt respond. It wasnt until 
January 2022 that it told One Insurance that insurer N was providing cover  and that insurer 
N hadnt given authority for it to release the car to One Insurances repairers. 
When One Insurance contacted insurer N, it said cover for garage N was only in place until 
2016. So One Insurance contacted garage K again - but struggled to get a straight answer 
from it. Eventually, One Insurance was given garage Hs details. Garage H said insurer N 
was covering the cost of repairs  which conflicted with what insurer N had said. So One 
Insurance asked for a claims or job reference number, which the garage refused to provide.
As garage K told One Insurance it couldnt release the car - and that insurer N had made 
that decision - but insurer N said it wasnt providing cover to garage K - Im not sure what 
else One Insurance could have done at the time. I think it tried to deal with insurer N, within 
a reasonable time of finding out that it was garage Ks insurer. 
In my opinion, the delay in writing the car off and paying Ms C for it was due to garage K and 
/ or insurer N. Garage K knew what the damage to Ms Cs car was in November 2021 and 
said it had reported the matter to its insurer. It isnt at all clear why it took a further five 
months for garage Ks claim on its insurance to be finalised. Ms Cs solicitor
Ms C thinks her solicitor was instrumental in moving matters on, but Ive seen no evidence of 
that. We asked her to clarify exactly what the solicitor had done. She said hed called garage 
K, but it wouldnt take the call. So he called insurer N, which in her view got things moving, 
although it isnt clear how. A note on One Insurances file on 3 February 2022 says Ms C told 
it shed instructed a solicitor and that hed called garage K and insurer N. The note says the 
solicitor got the same response from them as One Insurance had got. And it seems her 
solicitor was given inaccurate information (as was One Insurance). He too was told that 
garage H would be repairing the car, which wasnt the case. 
I dont think Ms C has shown that her solicitor did anything One Insurance didnt do, or that 
his calls moved matters on. It was several months after the calls to garage K and insurer N 
from One Insurance and from Ms Cs solicitor before the matter was finally resolved.  
Other issues
We asked One Insurance recently about the £100 it had offered to pay Ms C. It said it hadnt 
been able to do so as it didnt have her bank details. We also asked it whether it had offered 
to return some of the annual premium to her, as shed suggested. One Insurance said it 
hadnt. It said Ms Cs broker had told her it would ask about a refund, as the car wasnt with 
Ms C for the last few months of the policy year. But One Insurance said the policy was in 
place for the full year, so no refund was due. I think that was reasonable, especially as a 
claim on the policy was made and One Insurance incurred work as a result. 
In terms of the offer of using firm W, Ms C says it was never made. But One Insurances file 
notes show that on 1 December 2021 it made the offer to Ms C, and she accepted it. We 
asked One Insurance what happened to the referral to firm W, which it hasnt been able to 
explain. But as firm W would only have offered hire to Ms C  and garage K provided hire to 
her instead from 3 December 2021 - I dont think Ms C lost out by the referral not being 
pursued.    
In summary  
 
I can see why Ms C became distressed and frustrated by everything that happened after 
garage K damaged her car. But in my opinion, it was for firm K and its insurer to put matters 
right, or for it to co-operate fully with One Insurance in dealing with the claim. Although 
garage K provided car hire to Ms C  and its insurer compensated her for the week she was 
without a car  the long delay was in paying her for the cars total loss is something only 
garage K and insurer N can explain to Ms C. 
I think One Insurances offer of £100 compensation was reasonable. It was meant to 
compensate Ms C for the delay and poor communication around instructing a network 
garage, plus the problems having the car removed from garage K. But it seems that One 
Insurance didnt pay the £100 compensation, and theres nothing on the file to show that it 
asked Ms C for her bank details in order to do so.
 
Theres also nothing to show that One Insurance contacted Ms C about the referral to firm W 
after shed accepted its services. And I dont think One Insurance has shown that it gave her  
regular updates about the issues it was having in moving the complaint forward. I think that 
led to confusion and frustration on her part  plus the need to contact One Insurance more 
than should have been necessary. Taking everything into account, Im minded to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable 
for One Insurance not only to pay Ms C the original £100 it offered her for distress and 
inconvenience, but also for it to pay her a further £100 for other poor communication.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Ms C said all the issues had been 
covered. One Insurance accepted the findings and said it would pay the compensation when 
it received Ms Cs bank details.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither of the parties disagreed with my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart 
from them, so, for the reasons set out above, Im upholding some aspects of Ms Cs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require One Insurance Limited to 
pay Ms C £200 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman