DRN-2503313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) withdrew their rent guarantee cover 
provided for under their Landlords Insurance but has refused to refund the premium paid 
towards that benefit. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D rent out a property and have Landlords Insurance provided by UKI through 
Direct Line (Direct Line being a brand and trading name  for ease Ill refer to UKI 
throughout). Mr and Mrs D opted to include rent guarantee protection as part of their 
insurance cover at an additional cost. 
On 31 March 2020, Mr and Mrs D were sent an email from UKI, following a government 
announcement about possession proceedings, explaining that due to the announcement 
removing the legal mechanism to take a rent guarantee claim forward, no new rent 
guarantee claims would be paid for the next three months. 
Mr and Mrs D complained about this and not being offered a refund.  A final response was 
issued, explaining that the government announcement meant that all ongoing housing 
possession action was being suspended and that suspension would last for 90 days. It also 
went on to explain that once the three-month period had ended, and providing the legal 
process was re-stablished, claims could continue as per policy guidelines. A number was 
also provided to discuss any potential claims. 
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy as although they understood the position taken and were 
not looking to make a claim, they nevertheless didnt think it was fair or justified to charge for 
the cover when being able to submit a claim which wasnt the same as having a claim pay 
out. They therefore asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she was satisfied that during the 
suspension of possession proceedings it wouldnt have been possible to take forward claims 
as they were contingent on a claim for possession being accepted  prospects for which 
couldnt be assessed due to the suspension and the possibility of different pre-action 
protocols being put in place. She also found that, although the information could have been 
better, claims could still be made, albeit they would be held in abeyance until court action 
was resumed. As she was satisfied that UKI would have covered claims including periods 
when court action was suspended, she didnt find the cover had been withdrawn and so 
didnt require UKI to make any refund of premium. 
Mr and Mrs D have disagreed. In summary, they have said:
They feel cover was withdrawn and the premium should be refunded as they wouldnt 
have been able to claim for that three-month period. 
The policy has since been renewed, and they were given the option to include rent 
guarantee; when they queried that cover wouldnt be provided a premium reduction 
was agreed. They question why they couldnt have had a refund when the situation 
was the same in the previous insured period.
They were never told that claims could be made during the suspension and were told 
clearly that no rent claims would be considered. 
Assumptions have been made about them wanting possession had a tenant fallen 
into arrears and about how claims would have progressed. 
Court action may never have resumed, or within the lifetime of the policy. 
It was stated in correspondence that no new rent guarantee claims will be paid for in 
the next three months; and they disagree UKI should be able to charge them for a 
service they cannot access.
They were never provided with any assurances that claims would be backdated to 
the date arrears started; had that happened then they would have withdrawn their 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have made a number of comments about their communication being with 
Direct Line and not UKI. However, as mentioned above, Direct Line is a trading name of UKI; 
when Direct Line was corresponding with them, it was effectively UKI corresponding. Its 
further explained in the Direct Line policy document that We/us/Our is defined as U K 
Insurance Limited. As UKI in the insurer, and the party providing the policy and applying any 
terms and conditions or making claims decisions, the complaint is rightly against UKI. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs D feel very strongly about their complaint. And although I have 
summarised the background and what has happened, including their arguments, I would like 
to reassure both them and UKI that I have read and considered everything provided. In 
deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to their complaint, it isnt my role to comment on 
every point made; rather my findings will concentrate on the crux of the issue  whether 
cover was withdrawn and whether Mr and Mrs D are fairly entitled to a refund for that part of 
their cover. 
Mr and Mrs D opted to have rent guarantee cover included on their Landlords Insurance 
policy. However, this is an optional extra. Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs D opting not to renew 
that part of their cover in 2020 is persuasive evidence that they ought to be refunded when 
the government suspension was announced; it is only evidence that they decided against 
this additional cover when their renewal was due. 
The rent guarantee part of the policy (see section 8 Legal expenses, K) is contingent on a 
claim being accepted under the repossession part of the policy (J)  which required all 
statutory and contractual notices be correctly served. But during the government suspension 
all such action was placed on hold. Therefore it wasnt possible during the suspension for 
the policy to operate in the way intended. 
I think it was a positive step for UKI to proactively contact its policyholders to warn them of 
what the government suspension might mean for potential claims under the rent guarantee 
part of the policy. And I note that the message refers to no new rent guarantee claims will be 
paid for the next three months. I agree this does say that no new rent guarantee claims will 
be paid, but I dont agree this means cover was withdrawn  the message goes on to explain 
this is for the next three months, so cover wasnt withdrawn, it was limited for a period of 
time. 
And when responding to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, it was explained that:
For claims where prospects have not yet been determined, it is now impossible to 
assess them until the government issues the remaining elements of its advice, 
including the pre-action protocols. Therefore these claims should continue to be 
notified but are placed on hold until they can be assessed.  

I am sorry for any confusion caused by our email and your feedback on this is greatly 
appreciated. I have reviewed the email we sent, and we did confirm no new rent 
guarantee claims will be paid for the next three months. Whilst we did not confirm 
such claims will not be paid at all, I want to rest your mind assured that once the 
three-month period has ended, and providing the Government re-establishes the 
legal process, we will be able to progress claims as per the policy guidelines. [my 
emphases].  
Like UKI, Im not persuaded the initial message indicated that rent guarantee claims would 
never be paid. And it seems to me that the final response ought to have cleared up any 
confusion. It explains that claims should still be notified (albeit they would be placed on hold) 
and that once the legal process had been re-established claims could progress as per the 
policy guidelines. Im therefore satisfied UKI did explain that cover was still provided under 
the policy and that claims could still be progressed. And this explanation was sent a short 
time later, in May 2020, just a few weeks after the initial message. 
I accept that the legal process might never have been re-established during the term of the 
policy. But that was outside of UKIs control and not an eventually that actually materialised. 
As I understand it the suspension was lifted in September 2020. Im not persuaded it would 
be fair to ask UKI to refund part of a premium paid for cover, for an eventuality that never 
happened. 
The final response doesnt explain that claims can be backdated to when arrears first arose. 
But it isnt clear that was a decision that UKI had yet made  particularly as it wasnt known 
what provisions the government would put in place, if any, when the suspension was lifted. It 
has nevertheless informed us that should claims have arisen during the relevant period, then 
they would be backdated. I consider this to be a fair approach to take should it have been 
necessary for Mr and Mrs D to make a claim. 
Mr and Mrs D were in the fortunate position of not needing to make a claim. Their arguments 
that they might not have wanted to take the repossession route (which is a requirement 
under the policy in any event) or that court action might never have resumed, are largely 
hypothetical and so arent really relevant to my consideration  as above, Im not persuaded 
it would be fair to ask for a refund for situations that never arose. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the rent guarantee cover wasnt withdrawn; claims could still be 
made during that initial three-month period, and subsequently progressed once the 
suspension was lifted. And claims would be backdated were applicable. In all, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require UKI to refund the premium paid towards 
the rent guarantee cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman