DRN-4137846
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Aviva Insurance Limited have unfairly declined their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to Aviva also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware Mr and Mrs S have previously made other complaints about Avivas handling of 
their claim. Aviva has most recently addressed issues relating to the handling of the claim in 
a final response in October 2019.
However, my provisional decision focusses on the events covered in Avivas final response 
of March 2022. Any reference to events outside of this are purely for the context of 
answering this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Below is a summary of the key events that lead to this complaint  but is not a full 
timeline of everything thats happened.
Mr and Mrs Ss main property was built around 2013. Previously on the site were 
several mature trees which were felled to make way for the property.
Around a year later, in 2014, an Orangery was added to the property.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs S reported cracking had been found in the Orangery.
Aviva carried out investigations to the property, which were ongoing for some time. 
Ultimately it concluded the damage was caused by heave which had occurred due to 
defective design of the Orangerys foundations. It said tree roots had been identified 
around 2m below ground, and the foundations should have been deeper to account 
for this.
In its investigations an escape of water was also identified by Aviva, which said is
related to the location of a Soakaway. Aviva said however this hasnt attributed to the
damage.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with this. Theyve provided opinion from an independent
surveyor (D). D said the most likely cause of the movement was a defective drain
below the building (the soakaway) and the effect the escape of water had on the
subsoil and the foundations.
Aviva provided further opinion from another surveyor. It said the damage showed
foundation movement due to clay heave. It also noted there had been no anti-heave
precautions added to the foundations of the Orangery.
Aviva then instructed a further surveyor (who I shall refer to where necessary below
as M).
M reviewed all the information available and ultimately concluded the damage had
happened due to defective design of the Orangerys foundations.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Aviva. In its final response, it said it felt the decision to
decline the claim was correct but acknowledge it had initially indicated the claim
would be accepted and the costs paid. It has offered £1,500 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S.
Our investigator recommended Mr and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld. They said considering 
the depth of the Orangerys foundations, and that regulations dont apply, they werent 
persuaded Aviva had applied the exclusion fairly.
Aviva disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs S, but I do not intend to uphold their
complaint. Ill explain why.
What is the likely main cause of the damage?
Two possible causes of the damage have been presented. The first, a drain (the
soakaway) found to be leaking has washed away subsoils, leading to the damage. D
says this is the cause of the damage.
The second, that the design of the foundations was inadequate. That it didnt properly
account for tree roots under the property or contain certain anti-heave measures.
Having considered everything available from all parties, Im more persuaded the
issues have been caused by defective design of the foundations, as Aviva has said.
Three out of four of the expert opinions provided have concluded the foundations
have failed due to insufficient design. This has been supported by testing - which
includes monitoring of the property, and the damage described is consistent with
heave.
And although the Soakaway has been identified as causing an escape of water, its
the opinion again of three out of the four expert opinions that this isnt the main cause
of damage.
Were Aviva fair to apply the exclusion?
Aviva said the foundations of the Orangery were insufficient. It has declined the claim
for the damage caused by heave as the policy excludes cover for damage arising
from defective materials, design or workmanship.
In its reasoning, Aviva has referenced guidance from a provider of building
warranties. The policy doesnt set out any requirement to adhere to these standards.
And Aviva have not provided anything that persuades me the Orangery was subject
to them when it was built. So, Id like to set out clearly, I dont think this guidance is
relevant here.
However, I would reasonably expect when the Orangery was built for the builder to
take into consideration all possible factors when the foundations were constructed.
Historic google earth images show the land on which the property had a heavy tree
presence prior to construction.
While trees may not have been removed at construction of Orangery, as D said, the
Orangery was constructed only a short time after the main property. And its
reasonable this should have been considered when drawing up plans and when
considering the foundations to ensure the structure was safe and stood the test oftime. But issues have presented themselves less than five years since the Orangery
was completed.
The foundations have been found to be 1.7m deep, which for a structure of this type
is deeper than you might usually see. But tree roots have been found at a depth of
2m, which as Ive set out above, Im more persuaded has led to the damage.
Additionally, though there wasnt a requirement for the foundations to match those of
the main property, I think again its reasonable the main property being constructed
around a year before on piled foundations should have reasonably been taken into
consideration. I think this reasonably points to considerations that needed to be taken
when designing the foundations.
However, there is no evidence to show why the foundations were dug to that depth or
what considerations were taken when constructing the Orangery regarding things
such as the presence of tree roots. Mr and Mrs S have provided planning permission
documents, but these dont contain any detail that persuades me these
considerations were made.
Its also been reported the strip foundations do not contain other heave measures,
which, I think more likely than not, also supports Avivas suggestion of inadequate
design.
So having considered everything available I dont think Aviva are obviously wrong in
applying the exclusion here. Aviva said it will pay for resultant damage once the
foundations have been rectified, which I think is reasonable.
I also note Aviva has further concerns about the design and placement of the
Orangery in proximity to the soakaway. Aviva feels this has likely contributed to the
issues found with the soakaway. However, as Im persuaded the issues relate to the
foundations and not the soakaway, I do not intend to comment on this further.
Compensation
Aviva accepted it has caused distress and worry to Mr and Mrs S. It had initially
indicated it would accept Mr and Mrs Ss claim and that all costs would be paid. I
dont underestimate the impact this would likely have had on Mr and Mrs S, as Im
aware the worry of bearing the costs to correct issues such as these are significant.
However, I feel the compensation of £1,500 offered by Aviva is reasonable in
recognising the distress and inconvenience caused in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary they said:
The structure is a Conservatory and not an Orangery. 
They said my provisional findings contradicted what our investigator had said. 
They felt the compensation offered by Aviva was inadequate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have referred to the structure as a Conservatory - not an 
Orangery. I want to assure them this was considered within my provisional findings  and 
that be it a Conservatory or an Orangery, my outcome and reasoning would, and does, 
remain the same. 
I understand my findings differ to those of our investigator. But Im not bound by what our 
investigator has said. I know this will be very disappointing to Mr and Mrs S.  But Ive 
explained my intended findings and my reasons for it in my provisional decision to give both 
parties an opportunity to respond.
As Ive set out in my provisional decision, I dont underestimate the concern and stress this 
claim has caused Mr and Mrs S. But having reviewed matters I still feel the compensation 
offered by Aviva is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman