DRN-3099716
The complaint
Mr C complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) havent used a fair 
start date for his annuity. 
What happened
Mr C had a pension policy with Aegon which had a guaranteed annuity rate attached to it. In 
2017, Aegon decided to stop providing annuity contracts for new customers. It agreed with 
L&G to transfer its annuity business to it. This proposal required high court approval and 
Aegon set out this proposal to its customers. Within this letter it said a number of times that 
customers wont be adversely affected and there will be no change to contractual terms. 
Below is an extract from the summary included in the letter:
There were some conditions on Mr C being able to take his pension benefits with the 
guaranteed annuity rate. He had to reach the age of 60, it would be a single-life policy, and 
would be payable yearly in arrears starting on the first anniversary of the commencement 
date. This means that Mr Cs estate wont receive a proportionate payment if he were to die 
part-way through any given pension year.
The terms and conditions for Mr Cs policy with Aegon said:
The Pension Date of a Policy shall be a date selected by the Member of which written 
notice shall be given to the Society, and shall be a date not earlier than the sixtieth birthday 
of the Member []. Notice shall be given not less than one month and not more than three 
months before the date selected.
Mr C notified Aegon on 3 April 2019 of his intention for his pension date to be 12 May 2019 
(his 65th birthday). This is within the notice period set out in the policy terms and conditions.
When Mr C told L&G of the proposed retirement date it then communicated with Aegon. And 
Aegon said it would use this date to disinvest the money. L&G then set up Mr Cs annuity 
with a commencement date of 20 May as it took time to do the required administration. It 
said it told Mr C in a call that this is what they would do and he agreed.
Once Mr C realised his commencement date was 20 May 2020, he complained to L&G as 
hes said if he were to die between 12 May and the 20 May his estate would be financially 
disadvantaged  as that yearly payment wouldnt be received.
Our investigator looked into matters and felt the complaint should be upheld. He said L&G 
should rewrite the annuity so that the start date was 12 May and pay £150 for the trouble 
and upset it caused Mr C. The investigator said hed reached this view because:
Mr C notified both L&G and Aegon of his intention for his pension commencement 
date to be 12 May 2019, and L&G received his application form by 23 April 2019. I 
think this was enough time for L&G to request the funds from Aegon so his pension 
could have started in line with his requested pension date.
Because of this, I dont think its fair that Mr Cs pension commencement date was 
set later than he requested. I appreciate that there may not be any financial loss as it 
will depend on when Mr C passes away. However, I think L&G should mitigate 
against this.
The investigator also recommended that L&G pay Mr C £150 as compensation for the 
trouble and upset this uncertainty over his annuity will have caused him.
L&G responded to say it disagreed with the investigators view. It said it had contacted 
Aegon when it first received Mr Cs application on 24 April and Mr C had given it a retirement 
date of 12 May 2019. And Aegon confirmed it wouldnt disinvest until this date. L&G says it 
made this clear in a call with Mr C, citing the fact it said: As you got a specified future 
retirement date (12/05/19) we would ask Aegon to disinvest your pension policy on this date. 
However the annuity with Legal & General wont start until we have received the funds and 
the policy is put into payment
L&G said it made him aware of the implications of using this date and Mr C agreed to this. 
And he didnt say this was unacceptable until after the funds had disinvested.
Our investigator responded and pointed out if Mr C had used a date earlier than 12 May 
2019  under the terms of his policy it would result in a reduction to the guaranteed annuity 
rate. He felt it was unfair that L&G was requiring him either to take a definite financial loss or 
a potential future loss. And he said whilst he appreciated there would be delays when 
moving money between firms and setting up annuities  the agreement between L&G and 
Aegon was supposed to provide the same benefits he was entitled to under his pension 
policy.
L&G didnt agree. Its also said it isnt possible to change the payment date to before it 
received the funds. 
A complaint has also been raised against Aegon in relation to this issue and is being dealt 
with under a separate reference.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
L&G say it contacted Aegon as soon as it received Mr Cs application and gave it the 
retirement date Mr C had stated, 12 May, and Aegon had said that it wouldnt disinvest until 
that date. L&G says it couldnt use this date to pay the annuity one year later as it didnt 
receive the money in time. So it appears L&G is saying Aegon didnt allow it to meet this 
date. But as set out in Aegons letter to its customers, there is a responsibility as part of the 
transfer of the business (between L&G and Aegon) to retain the guarantees and terms & conditions of the original policy. 
As Mr C has said, how Aegon and L&G organised this between themselves isnt really 
important to him as the customer. But from what L&G has explained there appears to have 
been no consideration to make sure that Mr C could have the pension commencement date 
he selected  as is allowed for under the terms and conditions of his policy. I dont think that 
is fair on Mr C. 
L&G say that Mr C agreed to the fact he wouldnt receive the money on his commencement 
date of 12 May in a phone call with it. Having considered what was said in this call, I dont 
think that is a fair assessment of what happened. The key part of the conversation was:
L&G: OK. Thats fine. So when you receive your quotes, if you can review them to ensure 
that all your information is correct, if you are happy to proceed, you just need to complete the 
enclosed application form and return it to us. And as youve got a specified future retirement 
date, we would ask Aegon to disinvest your pension policy on this date.
However, the annuity with Legal and General wont start until weve received the funds and 
the policy put into payment. If you do choose to proceed with this quote, you need to be 
aware that the fund value used in the quote is not guaranteed. The final rate of income could 
therefore be different as we will apply the rates of the day that we receive the funds. And we 
do issue a final quotation as well, once all the funds and the completed paperwork has been 
received. That does confirm your final figures there for you.
Did you have any questions there Mr C?
Mr C: Yes. How long before the retirement date do you need the forms back?
L&G: So as long as we receive them back before, well be able to load it and request the 
funds. You know, provided everything in the application quote is completed. So as long as 
we have it before 12 May thats the first day that Aegon will be able to disinvest the policy. 
So as long as youve sent it in prior to that date, then thats ample time enough.
Mr C: And the tax-free lump sum will come on that date?
L&G: The tax-free lump sum will be sent by Aegon to you the same day that they send us 
the remainder of your fund. So you should get that a week following that 12 May. The 
remainder of the fund then comes to us to be calculated for a final quotation. We send that 
final quotation out to you, which you can then call us up to accept over the phone. So, your 
first annuity payment will come to you one year from the date that we receive your fund. But 
your tax-free cash you get pretty promptly at the start of the plan.
Mr C was told the annuity wouldnt start until it received the money and the policy was put 
into payment. But later he is told your first annuity payment will come to you one year from 
the date we receive your fund. So this isnt clear at all and L&G had said it would request 
the money on 12 May. I dont think a lay person would understand that this would be a 
problem. Mr C most likely thought the money transfer would go through the same day.
Mr C had made it clear that he wanted a commencement date of 12 May. And he already 
knew the terms and conditions of his annuity allowed for this. Mr C also asks how long 
before the retirement date does he have to get the forms back? The answer he was given is 
reassuring  - and doesnt make clear that actually 12 May couldnt realistically be his 
commencement date. Mr C wouldnt have knowledge of L&Gs processing times or that of a 
bank transfer between the two parties. I also dont think Mr C wouldve understood that the 
need for a final quotation would mean the date would need to be pushed back beyond 12 May  given the annuity wouldnt actually be payable until a years time in any event.  So I 
dont think Mr C wouldve thought at this point there was anything wrong, hence him 
agreeing in the call to what he was told.
So unwittingly I think the member of staff gave Mr C misleading information here  it 
certainly wasnt clear. But Mr C had made his intentions clear that the date of 12 May was 
important to him in this call. And under the terms of his policy he had selected this as his 
pension commencement date, as he was entitled to do so. At no point did L&G make it clear 
that its arrangement with Aegon of disinvesting the money on this date  meant that there 
was no chance it would use the pension commencement date of 12 May. 
As the investigator commented, the approach taken by Aegon and L&G here meant that if 
Mr C was aware of what his options actually were, it seems he wouldve been faced with a 
definite financial loss or a future potential loss. If Mr C chose a date before his 65th birthday 
on 12 May, the guaranteed annuity rate wouldve been reduced as a higher rate only kicked 
in on that date. In selecting the date of his 65th birthday, he couldnt receive the annuity on 
that date a year later due to the arrangements between Aegon and L&G. Meaning if he dies 
between those two dates, he will miss out on a whole years annuity payment. This does not 
strike me as fair. And it appears the problem is the transfer arrangements between L&G and 
Aegon.
If there was a way Mr C couldve received the full guaranteed annuity rate at 65 and have 
the pension commencement date he wished (as he was entitled to under the terms of the 
policy) L&G didnt explain this to him.
And I agree with the investigator that L&G received Mr Cs forms in time to setup the annuity 
with the date Mr C had requested. It says it didnt receive the money in time  but that was 
down to its arrangements with Aegon and not anything Mr C was responsible for. Even then 
its difficult to understand why L&G couldnt in these circumstances  when the payment is a 
year in arrears (and the terms of policy allow for a pre-selected date in the future) to have 
amended its usual process to give Mr C the date he had requested. So I think L&G havent 
been fair to Mr C and havent provided him an annuity in-line with the conditions he was 
entitled to.
Putting things right
To put things right, L&G should amend the annuity payment date to 12 May, so that all future 
payments are made on Mr Cs birthday. It should also pay him £150 for the trouble and 
upset it has caused by its failure to do this initially. 
I appreciate Aegon and L&G are both responsible for this process but Im not aware of all the 
arrangements between them. Aegon cannot rewrite this annuity as it is not their annuity. So 
after L&G have put things right for Mr C, if L&G believe Aegon should meet any of the costs 
incurred in putting things right for Mr C  it can always approach Aegon to discuss this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint against the Legal and General Assurance Society Limited and 
require it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman