DRN-2788107
The complaint
Miss O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided incorrect 
information during her mortgage application in relation to a valuation, carried out on its 
behalf, on a property she was purchasing. She says this prevented her from renegotiating 
the purchase price of the property. 
What happened
Miss O applied for a mortgage with NatWest, via a broker, in June 2020. As part of the 
application process, NatWest instructed a valuation of the property, to make sure it was 
suitable security according to its lending criteria.
The valuer completed a report at the end of June 2020. The property was valued at an 
amount equal to the purchase price Miss O had agreed.
On 26 August 2020, Miss Os solicitors wrote to NatWest and said they had become aware 
that the property was in close proximity to a major transport development. The letter asked 
NatWest if this impacted the valuation. NatWest referred the matter to the valuer. The valuer 
indicated they considered the value of the property was likely to be lower because of this 
and gave a revised estimate to NatWest.
NatWest say it informed Miss Os broker of this on 1 September 2020  and that a revision 
to the mortgage would be needed, as the revised valuation had affected the loan-to-value 
(LTV) ratio of the mortgage. A copy of this email is unavailable.
On 9 September 2020 Miss Os solicitors wrote to NatWest again, asking about another 
issue they had become aware of that could impact the valuation. NatWest again referred this 
to their valuer. They said that this second issue would not impact the value.
On 14 September 2020 NatWest told Miss Os solicitors that neither of the issues raised had 
impacted the valuation of the property.
Miss O has said she exchanged contracts on the purchase of the property on 18 September 
2020  based on this information. With completion set at the beginning of October 2020. 
A few days before completion NatWest made further enquiries of the broker  saying it 
hadnt heard from them about a revised product, required because of the impact of the 
revised valuation on the LTV. The broker said it had not received the previous enquiry about 
this.
The amount of borrowing was slightly reduced to allow the mortgage to proceed on the 
original product. And the mortgage completed as scheduled.
Miss O then complained to NatWest. She said it had provided incorrect information to her 
solicitors  that the valuation hadnt been impacted by the transport development. As a 
result, she said she hadnt had the opportunity to renegotiate the purchase price and felt she 
had overpaid and was out of pocket by the difference in the valuations.
NatWest acknowledged that it had provided incorrect information to the solicitors and that 
the service it had provided couldve been better. So, it offered Miss O £1,000 for the upset 
caused. It didnt agree that it should pay her the difference in the valuations.
Miss O asked our service to look into her complaint. One of our investigators considered 
matters but felt that the offer made by NatWest was fair. Miss O did not agree with the 
investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a 
result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that NatWest provided incorrect information to Miss Os solicitors on 
14 September 2020, by saying that the valuation carried out on its behalf had been 
unaffected. It had in fact reduced. NatWest offered Miss O £1,000 for the distress caused by 
this and by failing to share a copy of the updated report and not doing more to communicate 
with all of the relevant parties  Miss O, her solicitors and the broker. What I have to decide 
is whether this is fair or if NatWest needs to do more.
NatWest says it told Miss Os broker on 1 September 2020 that the valuation had been 
impacted by the information that had come to light. So, while incorrect information was later 
provided, it says the correct position had previously been outlined. The broker has said that 
this contact was not received. 
NatWest hasnt been able to provide a copy of the email that was sent. It has shown contact 
logs detailing what the email explained and where it was to be sent to. But having looked at 
this information, the email address that has been listed in the note appears to contain a 
spelling error. Based on this I think its unlikely that this information was successfully shared 
with the broker. And by NatWests own admission, it didnt follow up on this until the end of 
September 2020. So, I dont agree that the correct position had already been explained 
before it gave Miss Os solicitor incorrect information.
Miss O says that, by providing incorrect information to her solicitor about the valuation, 
NatWest misled her. And she exchanged contracts based on this information, and so lost the 
opportunity to renegotiate the purchase price of the property or potentially withdraw from the 
purchase, because by the time this came to light contracts had been exchanged and a price 
agreed. But I dont agree that she didnt have the opportunity to renegotiate the purchase.
Miss Os solicitors obtained the information that the property was close to a major transport 
development and shared this with NatWest. But Id expect this also to have been shared with 
Miss O at the same time. And this was several weeks before contracts were exchanged. So, 
she had the option, knowing this new information about the property, to reconsider the 
purchase. And ultimately it was her decision, as the purchaser, how much she was willing to 
pay for the property.
In addition, the valuation carried out on behalf of NatWest was for its purposes  for it to 
decide how much it was willing to lend. Indeed, information accompanying the valuation sets 
out that it was prepared solely to enable NatWest to consider how much to lend. And it also 
explains that the valuation figure is for mortgage purposes only and will not necessarily 
represent the purchase valuation, and that the report does not give assurances the purchase 
price is reasonable. The report suggests that buyers instruct their own surveys  which I 
understand Miss O did, as she has provided a copy, and this too was conducted before 
contracts were exchanged.So, taking everything into account, while NatWest did provide incorrect information, I dont 
think this prevented Miss O from renegotiating the purchase. It was still for Miss O to decide 
how much she was willing to pay for the property. And I dont think it is reasonable to say 
she relied entirely on the valuation carried out on behalf of NatWest  which was for 
NatWests purposes and provided as a courtesy  to decide this. Or if she did, I dont think 
NatWest is responsible for her decision to do so. Im also conscious there is no guarantee 
that the price wouldve been renegotiated successfully.  So overall, I dont think itd be 
reasonable for NatWest to pay the difference between its revised valuation and how much 
Miss O paid for the property. And in the circumstances, I think the £1,000 it has already 
offered for the failings in the service it provided is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think the offer already made to resolve this complaint is fair.
To put things right, if it hasnt already done so, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay 
Miss O £1,000, as it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman