The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc incorrectly reported a payment 
arrangement on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with RBS and has explained that around 2006 he experienced 
financial difficulties and agreed a payment arrangement. Mr B continued to make payments 
to the outstanding balance. In August 2019 Mr B complained about the information RBS had 
been reporting on his credit file. 
RBS responded on 11 September 2019 and agreed it had failed to review Mr Bs credit card 
payment arrangement and default it. RBS said the account should have been defaulted 
around July 2012 and arranged for it to be deleted from Mr Bs credit file. RBS also said it 
would write off the £129.89 outstanding balance to apologise for its error. 
Mr B said the information on his credit file had led to him being refused a job and had 
impacted his health. Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They thought RBS had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to take 
any further action. Mr B asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that RBS failed to review Mr Bs credit card payment arrangement around 
2012. Had it done so, its more likely than not that the account wouldve been defaulted at 
that time. RBS says the default should have been registered around July 2012. Had the 
default been registered at that time, it would have stopped being reported on his credit file 
around July 2018. 
Mr B has told us he was turned down for a job after a credit search was completed in 
December 2017. Hes also advised that he was turned down for a car loan in September 
2019. Whilst I understand Mr Bs concerns, I have to take the other information Ive seen on 
his credit file into account. I can see that during the period RBS reported a payment 
arrangement, Mr B had other adverse credit, including a default and arrears. Its likely the 
other information on his credit file wouldve been seen when credit searches were completed 
by Mr Bs prospective employer and lender. I cant safely say that the payment arrangement 
RBS reported was the key reason Mr B experienced difficulties. 
RBS has taken steps to amend Mr Bs credit file and the credit card debt is no longer being 
reported. RBS has also written off the outstanding balance of £129.89 as an apology to Mr 
DRN-1834009B. I can see how strongly Mr B feels in this matter, but Im satisfied RBS agreement to write
off the outstanding balance of  £129.89 is a fair way to resolve this complaint. I think the
settlement recognises the impact of RBS error on Mr B and is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman