DRN-3877210
The complaint
Mr N feels that Sainsburys Bank Plc has treated him unfairly about a transaction on his 
credit card to purchase a bus pass.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr N paid £114 to top up his bus pass in order to travel for two months 
using his Sainsburys credit card to pay for it. Soon afterwards the bus company started 
reducing and then not running services due to the Pandemic. Mr N complained to the bus 
company asking for a refund as he couldnt use the services. He says he didnt receive a 
satisfactory response, so he took his dispute to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys said it considered the dispute and concluded that there was insufficient evidence 
to proceed with a chargeback and nothing to show there had been a breach of contract. So it 
didnt think it could do anything more for Mr N. Unhappy with this conclusion, Mr N brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our Investigators last assessment on the matter found that Sainsburys didnt have to do any 
more. But Mr N doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should add that this decision is solely about Sainsburys and how it considered Mr Ns 
dispute with the bus company. The bus company is not within my remit and I cannot decide 
on its behaviour. The test is here whether Sainsburys treated Mr N fairly in its consideration 
of his dispute with the bus company. I hope I have made this crucial distinction clear.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out the requirements for a successful 
Section 75 claim to a creditor (such as Sainsburys here). This includes conditions regarding 
financial limits of the claim and that the required Debtor Creditor Supplier (DCS for short) 
relationship is in place. When considering a section 75 claim Sainsburys has to satisfy itself 
that the financial limits and DCS conditions are both met and then it needs to consider 
whether the bus company has breached the contract or misrepresented the contract. Here 
Sainsburys has argued that the financial limits requirement isnt met so it doesnt have to do 
any more under S75.
Ive considered Sainsburys financial limits argument. I should note the legislation specifically 
says:
S 75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
(2) (not key here-its about the Supplier indemnifying the creditor)
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a) (not key here),
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
In short to make a valid claim the single item purchased must be more than £100 and less 
than £30,000 in cash price. Ive considered the types of bus passes that this bus company 
sells. These fall into the following categories one-week advance purchase, four-week 
advance purchase, annual advance purchase and direct debit monthly. Mr F says he 
bought a top up for two months. Ive considered terms and conditions of the bus pass and 
note that you can top up as Mr F suggests. I also note these terms and conditions state that 
Following initial card purchase, advance purchase 1 week and 4 week top ups can be 
purchased. This ability to only top up by either one or four-week top ups is reiterated in 
these terms. So based on these terms it is clear to me that Mr F has in fact purchased two 
four-week advance tickets to run consecutively. As a consequence Im satisfied this is a 
purchase of two single items and are at a cost of £57 each and thus do not satisfy the 
financial limits requirements of S75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
The test I must apply here is whether Sainsburys has treated Mr N unfairly in not considering 
his S75 claim due to its reliance on the financial limits requirement. And it is my decision 
that it hasnt because I dont consider what Mr N purchased to be a single item. And thus as 
this purchase doesnt meet the requirements for a valid S75 claim, thus Sainsburys hasnt 
done anything wrong by not refunding him for this transaction under S75.
As an aside and purely for Mr Ns information I should add that Ive noticed something which 
hasnt been raised by any party in this dispute so far. Namely within the conditions of 
carriage of this bus company (which is in essence the terms of the contract for travel) it says 
The Company reserves the right, for operational or other reasons, to alter, suspend, or 
withdraw services, conditions or fares at any time. So it seems clear that even if this dispute 
had satisfied the financial limits requirement that there is no breach of contract because the 
conditions of carriage mean that the bus company could stop providing services without 
breaching the contract in place. So in any event Mr Ns S75 claim for non-provision of 
services/breach of contract could not have been successful.
Could Sainsburys have done more under Chargeback?
Mr Ns credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes giving 
Sainsburys an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through 
the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. And this is a mechanism for resolution of disputes 
between card holders and merchants which is decided solely on the basis of the network 
rules and the particular chargeback reasons set out in the network rules. 
This is in essence an internal process run by the network to resolve disputes. This service 
does consider raising a chargeback to be good practice if the card supplier considers the 
dispute has a reasonable prospect of success. 
Sainsburys is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
it is considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed or continue 
at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test 
here. I can see that Sainsburys asked Mr N to provide further information regarding the breach Mr 
N felt had happened. And I note that at the time it didnt receive what it considered sufficient 
evidence to take the matter further. So it didnt do so. And I dont think that was unfair as I 
dont think a chargeback at that time would have been successful considering the evidence 
and arguments available to Sainsburys regarding this dispute.
Sainsburys also raised one of the terms and conditions of the bus pass earlier in this 
dispute. Specifically it pointed the bus companys terms which state that refunds are only 
available for Annual, Student 9 month and Direct Debit bus passes. Having considered the 
terms here, what Sainsburys has said and what Ive said already in this decision, Im not 
persuaded that a chargeback would have had a reasonable prospect of success at any 
point. So I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong by not raising a chargeback as I think, 
ultimately for these reasons, any in time chargeback would have been unsuccessful.
Summary
 
It is my decision that Mr Ns claim doesnt meet the financial limits requirements as set out in 
the Consumer Credit Act. And Im not persuaded that Sainsburys has treated Mr N unfairly 
by not pursuing his chargeback any further. Accordingly, and for all the reasons given above 
it is my decision that this complaint should not succeed.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision Mr N wishes to read. However Im not persuaded 
Sainsburys has treated him unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to not uphold the complaint against 
Sainsburys Bank Plc. It has nothing further to do here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman