DRN-3207287
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled a 
buildings and contents claim, following an escape of water at his property.
What happened
Mr L has separate buildings and contents insurance cover for two connected properties 
with RSA. In March 2018, following the beast from the east Mr L made a claim for an 
escape of water at his property. It appears cold weather had caused a pipe to freeze and 
burst, causing water to come through the ceiling and into three rooms.
RSA arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property. RSA cash settled the buildings 
claim. In around August/September 2018 Mr L complained about how his claim had been 
handled to date, including that a contents claim hadnt been progressed. RSA issued a 
final response to that complaint on 1 November 2018, informing him that hed need to 
submit a claim for contents for that to progress. Mr L wasnt happy with that and RSA 
reminded him of his referral rights to this office. Subsequently, the contents claim was 
considered, with a settlement totalling just over £29,000 being made by August 2019.
Mr L referred a complaint to us on 11 May 2020. He said he made a claim for both 
buildings and contents. He mitigated his situation by not taking alternative accommodation 
and he expected compensation for council tax, utility bills and a sum for not being 
rehoused. He was awarded six-months worth but nothing more. There was a delay in the 
contents being progressed as his policy had been lost. But once it was progressed the 
drying out process was hampered by him being asked to list and value the contents 
claimed for. After a total of 18 months and dealing with over 60 different people, he lost 
the energy to dispute it further. He complains RSA has refused to pay the years council 
tax, utilities and loss of accommodation and that is the basis of his claim for loss and poor 
customer service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt find that RSA was liable to pay 
council tax, utilities or loss of accommodation. However, he did find that RSA had 
delayed matters substantially, as he was satisfied Mr L had submitted a contents claim 
at the same time as the buildings claim, and so RSA had significantly delayed the matter 
being resolved. He recommended RSA pay Mr L £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience that delay caused. RSA disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman.
The case was referred to me for review and determination. On reviewing the file, I noted 
that RSA had issued a final response in relation to the contents claim not being 
progressed at the same time as the buildings claim, on 1 November 2018. RSA provided 
referral rights to this office and explained it wouldnt consent to us reviewing the 
complaint if it was referred late.
I wrote to Mr L informally to let him know that much of what he complained about fell 
outside of our jurisdiction as he didnt refer his complaint to us in time. I also explained 
that any delay that may have occurred after the final response was issued, was likely to 
be inextricably linked to the initial progression of the contents claim (or lack thereof, if it 
was delayed) and so something I couldnt fairly decide. And I agreed that Mr L wasnt due 
any council tax payments under the terms of the policy.
Mr L didnt accept that and so it fell to me to make a decision on the matter; he 
considered RSA has confused matters.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 30 September 2021 explaining that Mr Ls complaint 
about the non-progression of his contents claim, alongside his buildings claim, fell outside 
of our jurisdiction as it wasnt referred within the six-month referral period from RSAs final 
response of 1 November 2018. I also explained that any of his concerns surrounding 
delays following that, or whether he is entitled to any further settlement under the terms of 
the policy, would be dealt with separately.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021, explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold the remainder of his complaint. RSA hasnt replied, so I have assumed it has 
nothing further to add. 
Mr L has replied. He said his complaint is in two parts, not progressing the contents claim 
at the same time the buildings claim was started in March 2018, and the length of time it 
took to finalise the claim. He is unhappy that three people who handled his claim at this 
office dealt with his claim fairly, even if their award of £1,500 didnt cover his losses. He 
finds it unbelievable that RSA has objected to all three peoples award. 
Mr Ls latest submission havent introduced any new evidence or arguments that I havent 
considered previously. I will however respond further to a couple of his points in my 
findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has said he has complained about two issues and he isnt sure which I am saying is out 
of time. 
Mr L has complained that RSA delayed progressing his contents claim, which he submits 
was made at the same time as his buildings claim, for around six months. That is the part of 
his complaint which I have found is out of time, as set out in my decision of 30 September 
2021. As his complaint about that doesnt fall within our jurisdiction, Im not allowed to look 
into, or decide, whether or not RSA did do anything wrong.
The other part of Mr Ls complaint is about the delay in then finalising matters. That was the 
subject matter of my provisional decision of 4 November 2021. I would also say that it was 
only the investigator that asked RSA to pay Mr L £1,500, no-one else. And RSA is entitled to 
disagree with an outcome reached and ask for a final decision, just as Mr L is. My 
provisional decision explained why I wasnt minded to make any award at all. As Mr L hasnt 
provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to alter those findings and I make 
them final. 
There were a number of things for me to consider and so I dealt with each in turn.
Alternative accommodation
Mr L is entitled to alternative accommodation both under the terms of his buildings, and his separate contents, insurance policies. However, Im given to understand it was Mr Ls 
choice to reside in the connected property, rather than RSA not offering alternative 
accommodation. Where an insurer is willing to offer alternative accommodation, we 
wouldnt usually ask it to pay compensation if its policyholder has chosen to do something 
else. In any event, I understand Mr Ls building claim was cash settled in around July 2018 
and so it was for him to arrange the drying out of the property and repairs.
Mr L complains that process was delayed by many months, because of the delay in his 
contents claim being progressed to begin with  wet and soaking items werent removed 
which meant he was unable to arrange the drying and subsequent repairs properly. I dont 
think I can fairly decide whether he should be entitled to any disturbance allowance (for 
delays in the property being made habitable) without firstly deciding whether or not RSA 
did, in fact, delay the contents claim at the outset.
As Mr L knows and as previously decided by me, Im not allowed to make a finding 
about that, as his complaint wasnt referred to us in time. And as I cant make a decision 
on whether or not RSA did delay the contents claim to begin with, I cant fairly decide 
whether the ultimate delay in his being able to dry and repair the property was as a 
consequence of that; the matters are inextricably linked.
Council tax and utility bills
As I explained to Mr L previously, Council tax is and remains payable on his own property 
whether or not it is subject to an insurance claim  the same applies to utility bills. Generally, 
the only time Council tax or utility bills might be a cost an insurer is expected to reimburse or 
make a contribution towards, is when alternative accommodation is taken, and the policy 
holder pays council tax and bills both on their own property and the property they temporarily 
reside in. As the additional council tax and additional bills for the temporary property would 
be attributable to the insured event, its a loss that can be recouped. But that doesnt apply 
here; Mr L decided to reside in his other property, which would have been subject to such 
bills and tax in any event.
Delays once the contents claim was started
Mr Ls contents claim was started in late November 2018 (Im not allowed to consider 
whether it should have been progressed before then). I can see from the records that 
contractors were trying to arrange appointments with Mr L in December and January 
2018 but werent getting a reply. I have also noted that Mr L says contractors had 
missed appointments during that time. Given the conflicting evidence, its difficult to 
know whether anything went wrong here.
But I am aware that when contractors did visit, it was recorded that the leak had yet to 
be fixed and the electricity was still off.
I can see from the records that there continued to be some confusion about the 
progression of the contents claim into February 2019. But as before, whether RSA should 
have done anything sooner is inextricably linked to the part of Mr Ls complaint that I cant 
consider. But I can see that RSA was also seeking to clarify what works he had 
undertaken since the building claim was settled, as any delays in drying would have 
impacted ongoing damage to contents. So it needed to understand what work had been 
undertaken, and whether there was any overlap in this claim, and a previous claim raised 
in 2016. I consider those fair issues for the insurer to seek answers on.
I can also see that Mr L was asked to provide information on the list of items he wished to 
claim for; although some items had been listed by a contractor, Mr L had also already disposed of some items. This request was made on 5 February 2019. He was asked to 
set out the item, values and weblinks for any item worth over £50. And as Mr L had 
indicated he had photographs of some of the items, RSA wanted those also.
I accept that having to complete such a list is time consuming. But RSA was entitled to 
ask Mr L to validate his claim and clearly set out his losses as a result of the insured 
event. This is standard practice and required as per the terms of insurance policies; it 
wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer to cover losses that couldnt be evidenced in some 
way.
Whilst I can see there was a lot of confusion over the carpets and how many were being 
claimed for, which did cause some delay, Mr L didnt provide all of the information 
required for RSA to settle the contents claim until August 2019. And RSA did make 
interim settlements in April and May 2019 when some of the information had been 
provided. Im therefore satisfied final settlement of the matter was made just a short time 
after the evidence it needed to make the final settlement, was provided by Mr L. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, whilst there were some avoidable delays 
with the carpets, I dont consider this had a material effect on how long it took RSA to 
make final settlement of the contents claim. Much of the time taken from it being 
progressed to the final payment being made was waiting for Mr L to complete and provide 
the required information. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman