DRN-4403251
The complaint
Mrs M complains that ERG Financial Planning Limited didnt provide the ongoing service that 
shed paid for. Mrs M also states that ERG failed to action a withdrawal request from her 
pension in a timely manner. She went on to say that she doesnt believe the funds she was 
invested in were appropriate for her circumstances. This, she says, resulted in her pension 
fund suffering a loss of around 20%.
Mrs M would now like ERG to refund her fees and to cover the investment losses she says 
are attributable to them.
What happened
Mrs M holds a Standard Life pension. In November 2021, she sent an email to her adviser at 
ERG explaining that shed handed her notice in at work and was planning to retire the 
following month. Her email also explained that shed like to explore transferring her 
Teachers Pension Scheme.
ERGs adviser responded to Mrs Ms email 11 days later and explained that hed telephone 
Mrs M on 24 November 2021. On 21 December 2021, Mrs M emailed ERGs adviser, 
explaining that shed decided to leave the Teachers Pension Scheme where it was. She 
then went on to explain that shed like to start drawing an income from her Standard Life 
pension. In addition, she queried how best to structure the withdrawals to make use of her 
personal income tax allowance.
As Mrs M hadnt heard back from ERG by 4 January 2022, she chased her adviser. On 17 
January 2022, the adviser explained his firms rules dictated that to organise a pension 
withdrawal, hed need to go through a full advice process with her. Given his diary 
commitments, he was unable to fit an appointment in with her for six to eight weeks. ERGs 
adviser therefore suggested Mrs M contact Standard Life directly, who should be able to 
facilitate the withdrawal for her.
Mrs M explained that she didnt subsequently contact Standard Life as she wasnt sure how 
to go about the process. It wasnt until May 2022 that Mrs M heard from her adviser again. It 
was at this point that he explained that he was leaving ERG and moving to a new firm. In 
July 2022, Mrs M ended her relationship with ERG.
Shortly afterwards, Mrs M decided to formally complain to ERG. In summary, she explained 
that because of the delays of ERGs adviser, her fund had dropped in value by around 
£63,000 or 18% of its value between November 2021 and May 2022. Mrs M felt that shed 
not received the service that shed been paying for. She went on to say that shed informed 
ERG well in advance of her plans to retire and as such, they failed to structure the 
investments within her pension appropriately in light of that.
After reviewing Mrs Ms complaint, ERG concluded that theyd not provided her with the right 
level of service since January 2022. However, they didnt believe that their actions had 
resulted in a loss to Mrs M. To put things right, ERG reimbursed their fees from January 
2022 to the point that she left them, of £750. They also offered Mrs M £1,500 for the 
inconvenience that theyd caused her.
Mrs M was unhappy with ERGs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she explained that ERGs inaction had resulted in significant financial losses to 
herself. She wanted this service to instruct ERG to recompense those monies.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that ERGs 
resolution of a refund of fees and a payment of £1,500 for the trouble that theyd caused was 
fair. In addition, our Investigator felt that, as ERGs adviser had managed Mrs Ms 
expectations about their inability to undertake the pension withdrawal within the timescales 
that Mrs M was looking for, given he signposted an alternative, it wasnt reasonable for ERG 
to have to cover the investment loses which Mrs M says she suffered because she didnt 
approach Standard Life.
Mrs M, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she disputed that 
ERG had told her in January 2022 that shed need to go through a full advice process to 
withdraw her tax-free cash and start taking her income. Mrs M states that ERG only told her 
shed need to contact Standard Life directly. In addition, Mrs M also said:
Shed told her adviser as early as March 2020 about when she was planning to retire, so 
it shouldnt have been a surprise in November 2021 when she contacted ERG to explain 
that she was finishing work the following month.
Mrs M questioned why it took ERG from November 2021 to January 2022 to explain that 
her adviser was too busy to help organise her withdrawal.
Mrs M stated that she accepted responsibility for not contacting Standard Life, but having 
paid fees on her pension for the last two decades, she didnt feel it was reasonable for 
her to have to take control of her pension at a point when she needed her adviser the 
most.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Mrs M had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. Mrs M 
then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case because I 
wanted to respond in more detail to the consumers complaint point about the 
appropriateness of the funds that she was invested in. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
I think its important for me to note that I very much recognise Mrs Ms strength of feeling 
about this matter. She has provided submissions to support her complaint, which Ive read 
and considered very carefully. However, I hope that Mrs M wont take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as she 
has outlined, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs M and ERG to reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, 
I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is for me to 
decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely than not 
to have happened. And, having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint but I wont be asking ERG to take any further action beyond what theyve already put forward in their 
resolution letter - Ill explain why.
Our Investigator explained that as Mrs M was complaining about the original suitability of the 
existing investments within the pension as opposed to the ongoing suitability of them, she 
would first need to complain directly to ERG about that. Our Investigator said that this 
service could only look into Mrs Ms concerns for her, after ERG had been given the 
opportunity to consider her complaint and had then issued their resolution letter to her. 
However, Im satisfied that I can look at Mrs Ms concern about the overall appropriateness 
of the investments within her pension, because her complaint point about the issue is quite 
broad and ERG have provided a response to those concerns, which included the suitability 
of the investments within her pension. 
What did ERG know of Mrs Ms retirement objectives and did they review the underlying 
pension investments when they should have?
When Mrs M complained to ERG, she said that she was unhappy about the suitability of the 
underlying investments that theyd arranged for her. Mrs M later explained that given she 
told ERG in February or March 2020 that she was planning to retire at the end of 2021, the 
investments they arranged for her back in October 2020 should have taken this in to 
account. In addition, Mrs M also says that given shed highlighted a life change had taken 
place in December 2021, at that point, ERG should have immediately reviewed her existing 
investments. Mrs M went on to say that her portfolio was comprised mainly of higher risk 
investments and as such, should have been moved to lower risk solutions at that point given 
her closeness to giving up work. When ERG responded to Mrs Ms complaint, they 
addressed the issue from the perspective of themselves not having reviewed her investment 
following a major lifestyle change (that is to say, post December 2021) rather than the 
appropriateness of them when she originally told them back in 2020 that she was planning to 
retire in around 18 months time.
ERG explained that whilst Mrs M may have told their adviser in February or March 2020 of 
her plan to give up work at age 60, until the point that she had made the firm decision to 
retire, it would have been unfeasible for the adviser to provide any At Retirement advice 
given the length of time and the potential changes in her circumstances between then and 
retirement.
In addition, ERG pointed out that Mrs M wasnt being provided with retirement planning 
advice, only investment advice. They went on to say: At Retirement Advice has never been 
part of the annual review meeting or included as part of the ongoing review service Mrs M 
signed up for. There was no contractual requirement to provide At Retirement advice to Mrs 
M and in line with our Client Agreement a fee would have been charged if advice had been 
given. Ive looked at what ERG consider to be At Retirement Advice. In summary, it 
includes:
An analysis of the consumers actual and anticipated income and expenditure over the 
next 10 years.
Cash flow modelling.
Reviewing income delivery options such as annuities, flexible income drawdown and the 
sustainability of withdrawals.
The provision of a suitability report setting out any recommendations.I believe that Mrs M and ERG are at crossed wires here and I can see why, so I think its 
important to draw a distinction between financial planning and investment management 
advice. The primary purpose of a pension is to provide the consumer with an income at a 
known point in the future. The underlying monies within the pension wrapper should then be 
managed according to the consumers risk appetite, having regard for that specific 
investment horizon. 
What that means in practice, is in the years running up to the consumers retirement age, its 
incumbent on the adviser to make any necessary adjustments to the portfolio in light of when 
the consumer is likely going to need to extract an income from the plan. That is investment 
management advice and is the service that Mrs M was paying for. However, ERG are saying 
that they didnt need to make any revisions to the portfolio because Mrs M wasnt paying for 
At Retirement advice. But, from what Ive seen, At Retirement advice doesnt include how 
the underlying monies are managed, it covers how the consumer will extract monies/income 
from the pension. I dont therefore believe its unreasonable for Mrs M to have expected that 
ERG would manage her investments with an eye on when she would likely need them and 
when she told her adviser that she was definitely planning to retire (in November 2021), that 
ERG would also then review the portfolio again to determine if any adjustments were 
necessary. It seems to me that by failing to manage the underlying investments to a known 
point in the future, the pension was simply being run as an open-ended investment without 
any pre-determined goal.
Ive considered what ERG knew about Mrs Ms plans to retire and the configuration of her 
pension investment. I asked ERG for copies of any fact-find documents that they completed 
with Mrs M over the previous two to three years prior to her retirement. In their response, 
ERG didnt provide any fact-finds but gave copies of the risk profiling exercises that theyd 
undertaken in 2016, 2018 and October 2020. Mrs M explained that she told ERGs adviser in 
March 2020 that she planned to retire in November 2021, but ERG have said that they dont 
have a record of that discussion or any file notes to support that. ERG have also said that 
they were first made aware that Mrs M wanted to retire was when she emailed them on 11 
November 2021. Ive seen emails from Mrs M to ERG as early as February 2020 that 
suggest shed started looking at her retirement income options, but importantly, that 
correspondence doesnt specifically state that shes looking at retiring within the next 18 
months or so. In addition, ERG wrote to Mrs M in October 2020 following her annual review 
and in that letter, it states that shes explained to them that theres been no significant 
changes to her circumstances.
Ive thought about when ERG wouldve known that Mrs M was definitely giving up work. 
Whilst I cant say for certain what definitely happened, I have to work on the balance of 
probabilities whats more likely than not to have occurred based on the information that I 
have. Ive been provided with a significant amount of email correspondence between Mrs M 
and ERG, which Ive looked at closely. As Ive already mentioned, Mrs M did write to her 
adviser in February 2020 querying her pension, but she didnt specifically state that she was 
looking to retire the following year. I think had she mentioned her plans to give up work the 
following year, that would more likely than not have come up in the various email interactions 
between herself and ERGs adviser, as well as ERGs letter to her in October 2020. 
However, just because Mrs M didnt tell ERG in February 2020 that she was planning to 
retire the following year, that doesnt mean that they shouldnt have been aware of her plans. 
Thats because Mrs M was paying ERG to provide her with an ongoing service and as Ive 
already explained, it seems that ERG were running the pension without an end goal in sight. 
However, they should have had a clear understanding of what her goals and objectives were 
for when she was planning to retire.
It seems that ERG undertook a review of Mrs Ms risk appetite in October 2020 and shortly 
thereafter made a small number of amendments to her investments. Importantly though, when ERG was told in November 2021 by Mrs M that she was giving up work the following 
month, that failed to trigger a further review of her underlying investments. I think ERG were 
aware of the need to review Mrs M's underlying pension investments following a major 
lifestyle event, because in their suitability letter to her of 10 October 2020 when her 
investment portfolio was last realigned, their adviser stated:
Future Contact and On-going Services
You agree that you still require our ongoing service and we will review your financial 
situation every six months.. It is essential that you notify me of any material 
changes to your circumstances, which may require your financial situation to be 
reviewed prior to this. Examples of this would be a redundancy, family bereavement 
or receiving an inheritance.
I think giving up work should have been considered a major lifestyle event by ERG. But, as 
Ive already explained, even when Mrs M told her adviser that she had stopped work, ERG 
then failed at that point to review her investments. At that stage, ERG simply referred her to 
Standard Life to undertake the withdrawal herself. I also think at that point, ERG shouldve 
been clearer with Mrs M and explained to her that her existing service didnt include the 
provision of wealth planning advice (At Retirement advice) and was a service that she 
would need to pay extra for.
Were the investments in Mrs Ms pension suitable?
Mrs M says that, had ERG managed her monies appropriately, they would have moved her 
funds into lower risk investments as she approached retirement. Despite the fact that ERG 
appear to have been running her pension as an open-ended investment without regard for 
her planned retirement date, Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms contention and theres a number 
of reasons for that. From what Ive seen, rather than purchasing an annuity with her monies 
(that provided a fixed income for life), Mrs M was planning on accessing her fund in stages 
and flexibly over the following years. So, I dont think that she could be considered a 
cautious investor. Indeed, in the last risk questionnaire that ERG completed with Mrs M, 
when asked how do you plan to take money from your investments?, Mrs M responded 
leave it invested and withdraw amounts regularly (eg taking it as regular income). So, it 
doesnt necessarily follow that ERG should have moved all of Mrs Ms monies into low risk, 
low yielding funds as she approached her anticipated retirement date as that wouldnt have 
matched her attitude towards risk. 
I say that because when ERG assessed Mrs Ms attitude towards investment risk, they 
determined she had a risk profile as High or 8/10. However, after discussions with her, they 
dialled the risk down to a high medium, or 6/10. ERG say that they invested Mrs Ms 
monies on a 6/10 basis despite the fact that she came out on their last three risk 
questionnaires as 8/10, 7/10 and 7/10. Ive looked closely at the last risk profile report that 
ERG completed with Mrs M in October 2020. Mrs M responded to the following key 
questions about the level of risk she was prepared to take:
I would be happy investing a large proportion of my income / capital in high-risk 
investments  Agree.
Taking financial risks is important to me  Agree
I would accept potential losses in order to pursue long-term investment growth  Strongly 
agreeEven had ERG been aware at that point that Mrs M was retiring the following year (in 2021), 
I dont think the portfolio that they arranged for her (in 2020) wouldve been any different 
given her risk appetite. Ive looked at the breakdown of Mrs Ms portfolio, in which she says 
that it was comprised mainly of higher risk investments  however, I dont agree. From what 
Ive seen, ERG appear to have selected a broad spectrum of different funds pitched at a 
medium level of risk. Thats despite Mrs M having an appetite to take risks at a higher level 
than what she was invested at.
When ERG completed their last capacity for risk assessment in October 2020, Mrs M was 
also asked about her pension and investments when is the earliest you plan to take money 
from your investments?  she responded, between 1 and 5 years from now. As a 
consequence of those discussions, ERG recommended that Mrs M switch some of the funds 
within her pension and reduce her equity exposure slightly and increase the corporate bond 
holdings. Im mindful of the question that Mrs M answered related to both her pension and 
investment portfolios, though, rather than just her pension, and Ive seen evidence that Mrs 
M had regularly taken withdrawals from her investment. Therefore, I cant be sure that she 
was thinking solely of her retirement planning when answering. But, it does appear that Mrs 
M had the capacity and willingness to take risks at the level she was doing.
I do appreciate Mrs Ms concerns at seeing her pension fund fall in value. I can well imagine 
how distressing that must have been, particularly so close to retirement. Mrs M says that 
whilst she understands markets can drop and she can accept volatility, she doesnt believe 
that the investment portfolio she held was suitable for her new lifestyle. However, even if 
ERG had moved all of her monies into lower risk funds as she neared her chosen retirement 
date, I dont necessarily agree that this wouldve sheltered her investments from any 
downside risk. Indeed, complaints to this service have shown in recent times that consumers 
who were invested in lower risk funds, such as bonds, suffering very large losses given the 
unique economic challenges that the markets have faced over the last two years with the 
pandemic and the war in Ukraine.
So, whilst I cant say for certain what wouldve happened had ERG undertaken the review of 
Mrs Ms investments had she informed them of her life event/ retirement (in February 2020), 
Im not convinced it wouldve driven a significant alteration to her portfolio beyond what she 
already had. I say that because Mrs M has consistently been a high medium risk investor 
and by her own admission, she understands investments can go down as well as up, she 
has other income sources (her Teachers pension scheme), other equity based investments 
and the capacity to take risks at the levels described.
Finally, Ive thought about whether the portfolio remained suitable for Mrs M after she 
notified ERG of that fact that shed given up work. I think it was, and largely for the same 
reasons as Ive already described as being why it was suitable up to that point. As Ive 
already explained, just because a consumer is planning on retiring, it doesnt necessarily 
mean that the business should disinvest. Consumers now typically spend a long time in 
retirement and its not uncommon for advisers to leave clients monies invested in funds that 
match the consumers risk appetite. 
So, in summary, ERG failed to manage Mrs Ms pension monies with a target retirement 
date in mind and they failed to then review the investments when Mrs M told them that shed 
stopped work and wanted to extract some funds from her plan. But, having considered her 
personal circumstances, Im satisfied that the pension portfolio was appropriate for her.
Failure to provide an ongoing service / request to take tax-free cash issue
As Ive already explained, Mrs M wanted to extract an income from her pension, so having 
had the initial interaction with ERG in November 2021, she contacted her adviser on 21 December 2021, setting out her wishes and asking for how best to structure that 
arrangement so she didnt pay unnecessary tax. As Mrs M hadnt heard anything back by 4 
January 2022, she chased her adviser. I well suspect that because of the festive season, 
ERGs offices and her adviser would have been unavailable at various points during that 
window. However, its not unreasonable for Mrs M to have expected a reply before 17 
January 2022. 
When Mrs M did speak to ERG on 17 January 2022, nearly four weeks after her withdrawal 
email request, the adviser explained his firms rules dictated that to organise a pension 
withdrawal, hed need to go through a full advice process with her. Given his diary 
commitments, he couldnt fit an appointment in with her for six to eight weeks, so he 
signposted an alternative pathway. He suggested that she contact Standard Life directly, 
who should be able to facilitate the withdrawal for her  however, Mrs M chose not to. In 
addition, Ive seen nothing to indicate that she contacted ERG to explain that she was 
reluctant to contact Standard Life either, or that she would be prepared to wait for a gap in 
her advisers diary for him to facilitate the withdrawal for her when he became available. 
Whilst Mrs M disputes that ERG told her the specific reason why they couldnt facilitate the 
income drawdown immediately (because of the need to take advice), she has conceded that 
ERG made it clear that they couldnt organise the withdrawal for her at that particular 
moment and provided an alternate option if she still wished to explore taking an income. I 
cant therefore penalise ERG if Mrs M chose not explore that option further.
I accept that there was a window of around four weeks between Mrs M contacting ERG and 
their adviser highlighting an alternate option, during which time her pension wouldve varied 
in value. However, as Ive already explained, some of that time was over the festive period 
and in any event, even if ERGs adviser had been able to action her request immediately, 
Mrs M wouldve still needed to have gone through an advice process to determine the 
suitability or otherwise of extracting those monies. Importantly, Mrs M chose not to act when 
her adviser signposted an alternate route. And as our Investigator has already pointed out, 
consumers also have to take reasonable steps to mitigate their own financial losses where 
possible. As such, I cant hold ERG responsible for the value of Mrs Ms pension falling 
because she didnt take the tax-free cash or any income from her fund. 
I understand from the correspondence that Ive seen, Mrs M has yet to extract any of the 
benefits from her Standard Life plan.
Whats not in any doubt here is that the service ERG provided Mrs M from January 2022 
wasnt to the usual standard that they say theyd typically aim to deliver. ERG have 
recognised that in their resolution letter and have offered to refund the ongoing advice fees 
Mrs M paid from January 2022 until she left their service in June 2022. Theyve also offered 
to pay her £1,500 for the inconvenience that theyve caused. Having thought about that, Im 
satisfied thats a fair and reasonable offer for their failure to provide an appropriate ongoing 
service during that period.
Responses to my Provisional decision:
After reviewing what I had to say, ERG responded and clarified that the only point they 
wished to add was that they had proposed to pay Mrs M £2,565.36 rather than the £2,246.02 
that was stated in my provisional decision.
Having also considered the provisional decision, Mrs M asked for additional feedback to be 
taken into account. She said, in summary: 
That when she spoke to ERG on 17 January 2022 about taking money out of her 
pension, her adviser was returning a phone call from her earlier that day, rather than replying to her email of 4 January 2022. 
Mrs M went on to say that ERG didnt give her an option to wait for a space in her 
advisers diary, so that financial advice could be provided about the best way to take 
money out of her pension. She explained that ERG never pointed out that financial 
advice was an additional bolt on service, of which there was a further cost.
Mrs M also explained that in the email to her adviser, she was clearly asking for advice, 
paid or not  but ERG simply washed their hands of her.
Mrs M went on to say that ERG still had access to her pension after the January 2022 
interaction and she felt that they should have seen that she had not accessed her 
retirement pot several months later. Therefore, she says, they should have reached out 
to check if any further help was needed. 
Finally, Mrs M stated that the issues she faced in accessing her pension were one of 
many that she encountered with ERG. She went on to say that their customer service 
over many years was often lacking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my earlier provisional decision, the purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs M and ERG 
to reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs M has provided further detailed submissions 
about the service that shes received from ERG and more insight about why and how she 
feels so badly let down by them. I dont doubt for a moment how inconvenient this whole set 
of circumstances has been for Mrs M, and specifically, the fact that her adviser wasnt there 
for her when she needed him the most. I dont think theres any doubt that ERG could have 
handled Mrs Ms withdrawal request more effectively  they failed to respond to her emails 
and when they did eventually speak to her, they couldnt provide the service that she 
wanted. Whilst there appears to be little common ground between both parties around what 
was and wasnt discussed on the call of 17 January 2022, there is one element that both 
parties agree on; that ERG told Mrs M that they werent able to facilitate that withdrawal 
request and an alternate method of doing so was provided.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs M has said that even though ERG signposted a different option 
to access her pension, she didnt feel confident making that step because she didnt really 
know how to structure any withdrawal in the right way, so as to limit the amount of tax she 
might have to pay. Mrs M has also said that as ERG still had access to her pension after the 
January 2022 interaction, she felt that they should have seen that she had not accessed her 
retirement pot several months later and as such, they should have reached out to check if 
any further help was needed. 
Whilst I can understand Mrs Ms contention, ERG have already acknowledged that their 
service at that time was lacking. That wouldve required ERG to proactively review Mrs Ms 
pension outside of her normal review window and to check to see if shed gone ahead with 
the withdrawal. And, given that Mrs M didnt inform ERG that she was hesitant about doing so or hadnt followed that pathway, I dont think ERG would have had any reason to check or 
follow-up with her. I well suspect that had Mrs M got back in touch with ERG to explain her 
reluctance to proceed without advice, then that may have prompted them to re-think the 
original direction that they gave her. However, given that ERG have said that the reason why 
they couldnt help Mrs M was a consequence of the adviser having only just returned from a 
long term absence, with a full diary for around eight weeks, Im not convinced that the 
outcome would have been any different. But, in the absence of Mrs M informing ERG of her 
concerns post 17 January 2022, I can well understand why ERG didnt reach out to her. 
However, I do agree with Mrs M that I think it wouldve demonstrated good customer care on 
ERGs part, had they followed up their 17 January 2022 discussion to check to ensure that 
any withdrawal completed via Standard Life had been actioned.
In any event, had Mrs M spoken to Standard Life as ERG had suggested, whilst they 
wouldnt have provided personalised advice, they could provide information and signposted 
other providers who could help shape her decision making. Importantly though, Mrs M 
wasnt paying for wealth planning advice  which is the service that ERG say Mrs M 
wouldve needed to have paid for to receive tailored guidance on how best to structure any 
income from her pension.
After reviewing what I had to say, ERG and Mrs M both responded and clarified the proposal 
tabled by ERG to Mrs M to put things right, was £2,565.36 rather than the £2,246.02 stated 
in my provisional decision. This amount appears to have increased since ERGs final 
resolution letter, but both the consumer and the business appear to agree on the amount 
proposed so Ive no reason to doubt it.
In her response to the provisional decision, Mrs M questioned what she should have done 
differently leading up to her retirement, and she wanted to understand how much time she 
should have given ERG to do their job. However, in my provisional decision, I explained 
that just because it was likely that Mrs M didnt tell ERG in February 2020 that she was 
planning to retire the following year, that doesnt mean that they shouldnt have been aware 
of her plans. Thats because Mrs M was paying ERG to provide her with an ongoing service 
and as Ive already explained, it seems that ERG were running the pension without an end 
goal in sight. That means the impetus was on ERG to fully understand and have sight of Mrs 
Ms retirement plans of when she wanted to give up work, so they could ensure her portfolio 
was managed and structured to the appropriate risk level.
Mrs M has also stated that the issues she faced in accessing her pension were one of many 
that she encountered with ERG. She went on to say that their customer service over many 
years was often lacking, and whilst I can sympathise with Mrs Ms concerns, this decision 
focuses purely on the issues that she raised in her complaint to this service, rather than any 
other wider supplemental concerns that she may have. If Mrs M has concerns about other 
points she wishes to raise, those must be directed to ERG for them to consider first. 
So, having considered very carefully the additional points that Mrs M and ERG have raised, 
Im not persuaded to alter the outcome of my provisional decision (outside of changing the 
redress payment) because Ive not seen anything thats made me change my mind. I fully 
appreciate thats not the outcome that Mrs M was hoping for, but it therefore follows that I 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons that Ive already set out in my provisional decision 
above. I therefore require ERG to put things right for her in the manner that Ive set out 
above.
 My final decision
ERG Financial Planning Limited has already made an offer to pay Mrs M £2,565.36 to settle 
the complaint and I think that this offer is fair in all of the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that ERG Financial Planning Limited should pay Mrs M £2,565.36 if 
theyve not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman