DRN-3998387
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M have complained that U K Insurance Limited have not paid a claim made 
under their travel insurance policy in full.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary they believe that five cancelled port stops should be covered under their 
policy rather than just two. 
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully 
reviewed the file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs M and Mr Ms policy provides cover for cancelled port stops. It says We will pay 
you £150 for each port stop shown on your schedule that is cancelled by the cruise 
operator after your vessel has left the first port. Mrs M and Mr M were notified in 
advance that their vessel would not be making three of the scheduled stops before 
they boarded. I do understand how disappointing that was for them, but as they had 
advance notification these cancellations are not covered by their policy. 
Mrs M and Mr M have argued that the policy term is unclear. I dont agree. Its clear 
that benefit is only payable if the cancellation occurs after the vessel has left the first 
port. I find the term to be unambiguous.
I appreciate that Mrs M and Mr Ms argument that these three cancellations were not 
known about when the cruise was booked. I recognise too that they felt it was too 
late to cancel or change their cruise when they learned about the port stops would 
not be happening. Nevertheless this does not bring these cancellations within the 
policy cover.
I note that a previous complaint that Mrs M and Mr M made to this service was 
resolved in their favour. However this doesnt set a precedent  all complaints are 
decided on their own individual facts.
Insurers are bound by business standards, set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook. They must handle claims promptly and fairly. I dont find that there was 
any breach of the regulations here. Neither do I find that U K Insurance treated Mrs 
M and Mr M unfairly or unreasonably by not including the three cancelled ports they 
were notified about prior to departing the UK in their claim settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman