DRN-3275064
The complaint
Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with the service received, and delays in repairs being 
completed, following a claim made to Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and 
General (Fairmead) under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr M and Ms G made a claim to Fairmead, their home insurance provider. This 
was following them suspecting there was subsidence at their property.
Fairmead appointed specialists to carry out investigations, who confirmed root exacerbated 
clay shrinkage subsidence was causing the movement and damage. They suggested 
various vegetation be removed in order to stop the movement. Some of the vegetation was 
owned by the local authority, so Fairmead approached them for permission for it to be 
removed.
The local authority requested 12 months of monitoring be carried out before theyd agree to 
remove the vegetation. The vegetation was ultimately removed by the local authority. And 
following some further monitoring, it was confirmed the movement had stopped and repair 
works could proceed.
A schedule of works was completed, and Mr M and Ms G were offered a cash settlement, 
which they didnt accept. Following concerns and additional damage being raised by 
Mr M and Ms G, Fairmead agreed and outlined the next steps for the claim. This included 
additional investigations and appointing a conservatory specialist.
Mr M and Ms G were unhappy with the time the claim had taken, and that repairs still hadnt 
been completed, so they approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things. She said that shed be looking at what had happened up 
to when Fairmead addressed Mr M and Ms Gs complaint in February 2021. But she said 
she wouldnt be looking at anything beyond that point as the claim was still ongoing. For the 
period she was considering, she concluded that there hadnt been any avoidable delays 
caused by Fairmead. But she said the communication had been poor and Mr M and Ms G 
hadnt been kept updated with things. So, she recommended Fairmead pay £150 
compensation.
She also recognised that Mr M and Ms G want repairs completed as soon as possible. But 
the claim and inspections were ongoing, and things had moved on beyond when Fairmead 
addressed the complaint. So, she said for any new issues after the complaint response, 
Mr M and Ms G would need to raise their concerns with Fairmead in the first instance.
Fairmead agreed with the recommended £150 compensation.
Mr M and Ms G disagreed and an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain that Im also only considering what happened up to when Fairmead 
addressed Mr M and Ms Gs complaint in February 2021. I acknowledge that things have 
moved on and evolved since this point, further inspections and visits have been carried out, 
along with a change in some of the repairs proposed following those visits. Mr M and Ms G 
have also paid for a report to be completed, they say they did this in order to support what 
theyve said, and they want Fairmead to cover the cost of this. 
However, as explained by our investigator when they issued their assessment (and more 
recently by another investigator), if Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with the handling, delays or 
anything else after Fairmead addressed the complaint in February 2021, theyd need to raise 
this with Fairmead in the first instance to consider. Before referring back to this service if 
they remain unhappy.
Delays and service received
Having looked at the full timeline of events up to February 2021, I do empathise with the 
position Mr M and Ms G have been in and that their claim has been ongoing for a long 
period of time. However, subsidence claims by their very nature can take time as often 
intrusive investigations are required, along with periods of monitoring to ensure the cause of 
movement has been determined and the property is no longer moving. This is so a lasting 
and effective repair can be completed.
I dont intend on commenting on every event that occurred over the entire period Im looking 
at, but I have taken everything into account when reaching my final decision. And Ill be 
looking to see if there have been any failings and/or unavoidable delays caused by 
Fairmead.
The claim was first raised in June 2019. Fairmead appointed a specialist and they 
investigated and determined root exacerbated clay shrinkage was causing the subsidence. 
They recommended vegetation be removed in order to stop the property subsiding.
Some of the vegetation was owned by the local authority, so Fairmead contacted them to 
request removal. There was some initial confusion as the local authority was initially under 
the impression Mr M and Ms G didnt want the vegetation removing  but this wasnt the 
case. However, once this was clarified, the local authority said they required 12 months of 
monitoring before the vegetation was removed in order to be satisfied it was contributing or 
causing the subsidence.Whilst I appreciate Mr M and Ms G were unhappy with the proposed period of monitoring, 
this was at the request of the local authority, and not something I can hold Fairmead 
responsible for. Fairmead are also unable to remove vegetation owned by the local authority 
(or anyone else) without permission. So, they had no option but to agree to it. However, I 
should also note that it does appear from the internal notes and emails sent to the local 
authority that Fairmead were proactive in attempting to persuade them on a number of 
occasions to allow removal, including outlining the implications of not doing so or the 
authority causing delays.
Ultimately the authority agreed in principle to the removal after around six months of 
monitoring, however they werent able to give a timescale as to when this would happen due 
to the restrictions in force at the time. This was outside Fairmeads control, but I do also note 
they repeatedly chased the authority for updates on a confirmed date.
The vegetation removal went ahead in August 2020. But I cant hold Fairmead responsible 
for the time taken to get to that point or conclude that they caused unavoidable delays. 
Following removal of the vegetation and a short period of monitoring a further inspection and 
schedule of works was completed by Fairmead. A cash settlement offer was then 
subsequently made to Mr M and Ms G. Fairmead chased Mr M and Ms G when they didnt 
receive a response to the offer. Mr M and Ms G responded to say they were unhappy with 
the schedule of works and offer made, and they raised some further issues and a complaint.
Fairmead then outlined next steps for the claim (which Ill comment on below) and issued 
their complaint response.
As Ive said, Im not considering what happened after this or the outcome of the next steps 
here. And looking at the timeline of events overall, Im unable to hold Fairmead solely 
responsible for the time taken or conclude that theyve caused unavoidable delays.
However, its clear from the communication from Mr M and Ms G that they werent always 
kept updated by Fairmead. Whilst Fairmead was actively managing the claim, 
Mr M and Ms G wouldnt have always been aware of what was happening. I can also see 
that Mr M and Ms G contacted Fairmead a number of times and didnt always receive 
responses. I can appreciate why Mr M and Ms G were unhappy with this as from their point 
of view their claim wasnt being progressed - even if it was behind the scenes.
Our investigator recommended Fairmead pay Mr M and Ms G £150 compensation for this 
and Fairmead accepted their recommendation. Having taken everything into account, I think 
this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Repairs and next steps
As Ive mentioned above, Mr M and Ms G were unhappy with the initial schedule of works 
and cash settlement offer. They also raised some concerns and further damage at their 
property. When issuing their complaint response, Fairmead also agreed to:
Appoint a contractor to inspect the bathroom window
Appoint a contractor to inspect possible cracking behind the bathroom tiles
Temporary works to the leaking bedroom and bathroom window
Appoint a specialist conservatory company to advise on the conservatory repairs 
and/or replacement
Refix the metal fencing
Establish whether the policy covers fencing where vegetation has been removed
Establish whether digging was required at the corner of the propertyIm not commenting specifically on the outcomes of the above, or the further investigations 
which have since been undertaken, as this has all occurred since the original complaint. And 
the position and claim has moved on. Whilst I do appreciate Mr M and Ms G would like 
repairs completed, as Fairmead agreed to do the above and recognised the further issues 
Mr M and Ms G highlighted, I dont think their position at that time was unreasonable as clear 
next steps were agreed and outlined. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as Fairmead recognised the concerns and issues Mr M and Ms G had raised.
If Mr M and Ms G are unhappy with the outcome of the above next steps, or anything else 
which has occurred since that point, theyd need to raise this with Fairmead as outlined by 
our investigator(s) in the first instance.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited trading as Legal and General to:
Pay Mr M and Ms G £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman