The complaint
Ms L complains Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) hasnt covered a claim for 
two stolen phones, after initially saying it would. 
What happened
Ms L has a tech pack with her bank account that provides mobile phone and gadget 
insurance cover for her and her partner. In mid-November 2019, she made a claim for her 
and her partners stolen phones. 
On 20 November 2019, Assurant told Ms L that because there had been three claims in the 
previous 12 months, she could only claim for one of the stolen phones. Later that day, it 
explained she had actually made four claims in the previous 12 months, which was the 
maximum she could make. It said due to its error, it would still go ahead and consider the 
one claim. 
Assurant wrote to Ms L on 25 November rejecting both of her claims, saying she had 
exceeded the number of successful claims that could be made in a 12 month period.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ls case in part. She said Assurant was fair to decline Ms Ls 
claims, but it ought to pay £100 compensation for the misleading information given. 
Ms L and Assurant disagreed with our investigator. Ms L remained unhappy as she was told 
that both phones would be covered  she said £100 wouldnt replace the two phones. 
Assurant felt £50 was a fairer offer to compensate Ms L for the misleading information  it 
said that shed been told the claim would be assessed, not that it had been accepted.  
The complaint has been passed me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, as these set out the agreement between Ms L 
and Assurant about what will and wont be covered. These set out: 
There is a limit to the number of successful loss or theft claims that can be made on 
this policy in any 12 month period. This amount is:
 4 loss or theft claims for mobile phonesper Tech Pack
DRN-1447440AND
 4 loss or theft claims for any gadgets per Tech Pack
Each of these limits are independent of the other, so you can have 4 successful claims 
on mobile phones AND 4 successful claims on your gadgets in any 12 month period. 
Once you reach one of these limits in any 12 month period your insurance will 
continue but you will not be able to make a further loss or theft claim for either mobile 
phones or gadgets, depending on which limit you have reached, for any further 
incidents that happen before the anniversary of the first claim.
For example if you make a successful loss or theft claim on a mobile phone on 1st 
January and a further 3 successful loss or theft claims on 1st May, 1st June and 1st 
October you will not be able to make any further loss or theft claims against this policy 
for incidents that happen prior to 1st January the following year. As this means you 
have reached the limit to the number of mobile phone claims, you would still be able to 
make claims for any gadgets that are lost or stolen in that 12 month period. There is 
no limit to the number of accidental damage or breakdown claims you can make on 
your devices.
This limitation is also explained in the policy summary  so Im satisfied Assurant made this 
clear to Ms L. 
Its not in dispute Ms L made three successful claims in December 2018 and one in January 
2019 for lost or stolen phones. So when Ms L made a claim in November 2019, shed 
already made four successful claims in the previous 12 months. So I agree it was fair for 
Assurant to ultimately decline the claim.
When Ms L first submitted a claim, I accept it's likely she was told both phones would be 
processed. So I appreciate Ms L was under the impression that her claim would be 
considered for both phones at the start. I think its likely the advisor was simply setting up the 
claim, so couldnt have known straightaway that her claim wouldnt be covered. But I think 
she couldve been told sooner that her claim wouldnt be covered, and Assurant 
acknowledges that it couldve been clearer about this.
This doesn't mean it's fair for Assurant to cover these claims  under the policy terms, Ms L 
wasn't entitled to that. But I think she should be compensated for the misinformation. Had 
Ms L been correctly advised, she wouldnt have endured several days of speaking with 
Assurant about her claim and raising her expectation that a claim would be successful in 
some capacity. I agree theres been a degree of distress and inconvenience here and I 
agree with the investigators recommendation here of £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I uphold this case in part and instruct 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Ms L £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman