DRN-3661453
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Automobile Association Insurance Service Limited dealt with the
renewal of her car insurance after her car was stolen. She was asked her to make an
additional payment towards her insurance cover. She believes that this validated her claim
for her stolen car and this should be paid.
What happened
Ms P had insurance arranged for her car through AAIS. This cover ran until 3 July 2021. Ms
P was contacted by AAIS on 4 June 2021 advising that her cover would renew automatically.
Ms Ps car was stolen on 18 June 2021 and she submitted a claim to her insurers. Shes
made a separate complaint about her insurers decision to void her policy and decline her
claim.
On 21 June 2021 AAIS sent Ms P a renewal invitation offering a quotation for cover with a
different insurer. Her policy was then renewed through AAIS but with the new insurer on 28
June 2021, with cover to start on 3 July 2021. The premium charged for the new policy didnt
take into account speeding convictions for Ms P and her named driver. When the new
insurer became aware of the speeding convictions, they were still prepared to offer Ms P
cover, but at an increased premium.
AAIS advised Ms P on 1 July 2021 that an additional premium of £55.36 was payable if she
wanted to keep her policy. When they advised her of this, they quoted the reference for her
old policy, rather than the new one. Ms P paid the additional premium of £55.36 on 2 July
2021. She believes that because she believed she was being asked to make a further 
payment in respect of her existing policy, this should validate that policy and her claim in 
respect of her stolen car.
AAIS told Ms P that they agreed the email theyd sent about the additional premium could
have been clearer, but it was intended to relate to her new policy commencing on 3 July
2021. On 5 July 2021 they wrote to Ms P advising her that the additional premium was no
longer required, and they were refunding her payment. This was the same date that her
previous insurers made their decision to void her policy and decline her claim.
AAIS then contacted her to request documentation to validate her new policy which had
been requested by her new insurer. Ms P wasnt happy about this as she says this
information hadnt been requested by her previous insurer. She also questioned why AAIS
wanted her to insure a stolen car. AAIS didnt really reply to this.
On 16 July Ms Ps policy with her new insurer was cancelled and a full refund of the
premium shed paid was provided. As the policy was cancelled AAIS confirmed she didnt
need to provide the validation documentation theyd requested.
Ms P raised a complaint with AAIS in respect of both her policy being voided and her claim
declined and how the renewal of her policy had been dealt with.
AAIS told Ms P her complaint about her policy being voided and her theft claim declined
needed to be investigated and answered by her insurer.
In respect of her policy renewal AAIS didnt uphold her complaint as they said the emails
shed received related to her new policy, which had been cancelled and a full refund issued.
Ms P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and said that
AAIS are brokers, so their role is to look for the most appropriate cover for their customers
from a panel of insurers.
In this case he considered the timing of events to be unfortunate, as the theft of Ms Ps car
took place during the renewal period for her policy. AAIS sent details of her proposed new
policy to her before her car was stolen. The undisclosed driving convictions came to light
during the investigation of her theft claim, and AAIS werent aware of them when they sent
her renewal documentation.
So while he felt AAIS could have been clearer in explaining that the additional premium 
related to her new policy, he felt it was reasonable for this amount to be requested. He also 
said requesting this payment didnt validate her theft claim as the payment related to her 
new policy. And as Ms P received a refund of the £55.36 shed paid and her renewal 
premium, he didnt think AAIS needed to pay her any compensation.
Ms P didnt accept our investigators opinion. Shes said that she made an error which has
resulted in her having to pay for a car she no longer has. And she doesnt think its fair that
weve accepted that AAIS simply made a mistake, and this has had no consequences for
them.
Shes asked us to consider why an error made by AAIS can be disregarded and an error she
made has cost her £70,000.
The case then came to me for a decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 July 2022. And in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has made a separate complaint about the underwriters of her policy voiding her policy
and declining her claim for the theft of her car. So in this decision Im simply looking at the
actions of AAIS as her brokers in relation to the administration and renewal of her car
insurance policy.
AAIS have said that part of their role is to find their customers the most competitive price for
their car insurance. So when they sent Ms P details of her renewal in June 2021 this was
with a different insurer than her existing policy, as the new insurer offered a more
competitive premium.
The renewal process started on 4 June 2021. But by the time Ms P was sent her renewal
documentation her car had been stolen, and shed reported the theft to AAIS on the day it
happened.
Ive considered the renewal documents Ms P received and I think its quite clear that her
insurer had changed. And the covering letter asks her to check that she has the cover she
needs and all the information we hold about you and your cover is correct. The letter also
confirms that the period of cover is from 3 July 2021 to 3 July 2022.Having received her renewal advice which also told her that AAIS would attempt to take her
payment around the date of her renewal, Ms P could have contacted AAIS to ask why she
needed cover for a car that had been stolen.
But I think that someone at AAIS, who were supposed to be acting on Ms Ps behalf, should
have checked their records, seen that shed reported the car as stolen, and contacted her to
discuss what it was best to do about the renewal of her policy.
While the premium she paid for another years cover was refunded, this wasnt until 16 July
2021.
Ms P says that when AAIS requested a further payment for her cover to be continued, she
believed this related to the policy that was in place when her car was stolen. And that by
accepting the further payment she made AAIS had validated her policy and her theft claim
should be paid.
AAIS accept that they quoted the reference for her old policy when they contacted her to
request a further payment. Their email was sent on 1 July 2021, before Ms Ps existing
policy had expired. It refers to a validation check and the driving convictions that had been
discovered for her and her named driver. Ms P was given two options, to make an additional
payment of £55.36 by 15 July 2021, or to cancel her policy.
I dont think the email makes it clear which policy AAIS were referring to, and this is made
ever less clear by them quoting the reference to what was then Ms Ps current policy. So I
think its understandable that Ms P may have thought she was being asked to make a further
payment for covering her driving convictions under her existing policy.
But that wasnt the case. The further payment related to Ms Ps new policy, due to
commence on 3 July 2021. Its important to note that AAIS werent responsible for the
decision to void Ms Ps policy covering her from 3 July 2020 to 3 July 2021 and decline her
claim for the theft of her car. That decision was made by the insurers. Whove said that if
theyd been aware of the driving convictions they wouldnt have offered Ms P cover. So there
wasnt a possibility of Ms P paying an additional premium to validate her policy.
Ms P paid the additional payment AAIS requested under the wrong policy reference on 2
July 2021. On 5 July 2021 AAIS emailed Ms P saying that the additional payment was being
refunded and quoting the correct reference for her new policy, which had been quoted on
her renewal documents sent to her on 28 June 2021.
The email of 5 July 2021 doesnt refer to the wrong reference being quoted and had AAIS
acknowledged their mistake at this stage thered have been far less confusion.
Ms P was advised on 5 July 2021 that the policy covering her for the period from 3 July 2020
to 3 July 2021 had been voided and her theft claim declined. It would then have been clear
to her that the additional payment shed made hadnt validated her policy or her claim. So
there was only a very short period when Ms P may have thought her policy and claim had
been validated.
I can understand why Ms P thinks both she and AAIS have made errors and hers have had
significant consequences. But theres a difference between quoting the wrong reference on
an email and failing to disclose driving convictions when applying for insurance cover. Its
accepted that Ms P didnt do this on purpose, but the consequences of failing to provide
accurate information are set out in the policy terms and conditions which Ms P agreed to.I dont think theres any basis for me to hold AAIS responsible for the cancellation of Ms Ps
policy and the losses flowing from that. But Im persuaded they provided poor customer
service when dealing with the renewal of her policy. And they should pay Ms P £250 to
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
So my provisional decision was that I partially upheld Ms Ps complaint.
Ms P has indicated that she doesnt accept my provisional decision. Shes said the following: 
Ive offered the benefit of the doubt to the brokers and the insurers, but not to her. 
The mistakes made by the brokers have been brushed aside and the £250 
compensation Ive awarded is insulting.
She did contact the brokers by email enquiring why she was being asked to insure a 
car that had been stolen.
She doesnt believe the insurers and brokers are being held accountable to the same 
level as she is.
She made an honest mistake which has had severe financial consequences. But I 
havent held the business to same standard and theyre being allowed to avoid 
responsibility by relying on small print.
She wants me to help her understand how consumers can differentiate between the 
brokers and the insurers when they both brand themselves as AA. And doesnt 
understand why her complaint has been set up against two different businesses.
She doesnt understand why her premium wasnt refunded when her policy was 
voided and her claim declined.
She says we allow insurance companies to sign customers up online without placing 
any burden on them to carry out checks. And for a trivial matter of 3 points on her 
licence several years ago the business have been allowed to shirk their responsibility 
to provide cover for her stolen car.
She believes weve failed to hold AAIS to good faith and protect consumers like her.
AAIS have confirmed that they agree they should have done more to contact Ms P about the 
automatic renewal of her policy as they knew her car had been stolen. And theyve indicated 
they accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im dealing only with Ms Ps complaint against AAIS as the broker who 
arranged her policy. A separate decision has been issued regarding her complaint against 
the underwriters of her policy. So Im not going to address here any issues regarding that 
complaint.
Ive accepted that AAIS make mistakes in relation to the administration and renewal of Ms 
Ps policy. AAIS have acknowledged that they could have dealt better with the renewal of Ms 
Ps policy after theyd been told her car had been stolen. And Ive explained in my 
provisional decision why I dont think this means AAIS should have to pay Ms Ps claim for her stolen car.
I accept that Ms P did contact AAIS to ask why she was being asked to insure a car that had 
been stolen. And AAIS didnt initially respond to this.
I dont agree that AAIS have been allowed to escape responsibility based on fine print. Ive 
required them to pay compensation for the poor customer service theyve provided. And the 
decision taken by the underwriters has been dealt with in the complaint against them.
Ms Ps complaint has been separated into two complaints against the underwriters and the 
brokers. I think its clear from Ms Ps policy documentation that AAIS arranged cover for her 
with an insurance company who underwrote her policy. Brokers and underwriters have 
separate, individual responsibilities. And a complaint can only be set up against a party if it 
was responsible for the actions complained about.
The refund of Ms Ps premium in respect of her voided policy has been dealt with in the 
decision regarding her claim against the underwriters of her policy.
Its not our role to regulate businesses and how they operate as a whole. If Ms P wishes to 
make a complaint about how AAIS operate, then thats something she can take up with the 
FCA. Our role is to reach a fair and impartial outcome based on the individual facts of a 
complaint. And to reach that outcome based on the evidence provided by both parties. In 
reaching my decision in this case Ive considered the evidence from both Ms P and AAIS.
In my provisional decision I said that AAIS had provided a poor level of customer service to 
Ms P in relation to the administration and renewal of her car insurance policy. Ive 
considered the points shes raised and havent changed my mind about that. And I still feel 
that the appropriate level of compensation is £250.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partially uphold Ms Ps complaint against Automobile Association Insurance Services 
Limited. 
And to put things right I require them to pay Ms P £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor customer service they provided in relation to the 
administration and renewal of her car insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman