DRN-2839213
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Santander UK Plc is holding him liable for a series of transactions he 
says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.  
Background
Mr W has an account with Santander. Between October 2018 and February 2019, a series 
of withdrawals were made from this account. The total value of those withdrawals was 
£5,400 and Mr W says they werent made by him.
There wasnt a high volume of transactions on this account. Mr W had been effectively using 
it as a savings account. He had been planning to use the funds to help pay for the cost of 
renovating a home he owned overseas, although it was used for occasional spending. Mr W 
told us his girlfriend handled most of their joint finances and associated paperwork. He 
periodically transferred her a lump sum to cover those costs. 
Unfortunately, the background circumstances to this dispute are opaque. Mr W and 
Santander have given us what information and recollections they can. The key dates are as 
follows:
In August 2018, Mr W says he was overseas. This was when he last attempted to 
use his card at an ATM, but he says it didnt work.
In October 2018, someone visited a Santander branch and requested a new card for 
Mr Ws account. He says this wasnt him. Santander has said that it would only 
process a request like this if the individual making it could verify their identity  either 
by presenting the original card and entering the PIN or by showing photo ID to a 
member of branch staff. A replacement card was sent to Mr Ws home address and 
the disputed transactions started shortly afterwards.
In November 2018, Mr W says that he used the details from the original card to make 
an online payment for the cost of a hire car.
In late December 2018, Mr W says he attempted to use the original card at an ATM 
but it didnt work. He says that he made a cash withdrawal from a different account.
In February 2019, Mr W visited his local branch to enquire about his account. Hes 
told us it was at this point that he realised that unauthorised transactions had been 
made.
In February 2019, Mr W contacted Action Fraud to tell them he thought he was a 
victim of fraud. 
In July 2019, Mr Ws local Santander branch closed.
Throughout this period, several withdrawals were made from Mr Ws account. Some of these 
were carried out at ATMs and some were recorded as being carried out at the counter. Mr W 
complained to Santander. It said it wouldnt investigate his claim because of the length of 
time that had elapsed before he reported it. It said that something known as the 13-month 
rule meant it didnt have to investigate his claim in this instance.
Mr W was unhappy with this response from Santander, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator. She noted that Mr Ws recollection was that hed 
verbally told branch staff that he disputed these transactions. She also noted that hed 
reported the matter to Action Fraud at the time and thought it was unlikely that hed have 
done that, but not notified Santander. On balance, she thought it was likely that Mr W had 
told a bank employee of his claim but that it hadnt been logged due to an administrative 
error. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Santander to decline Mr Ws claim on the basis 
of the 13-month rule.
On the substantive complaint, she said that, although it was clear that these withdrawals had 
been authenticated using a genuine card and the PIN had been entered correctly, that didnt 
mean Santander could treat the transactions as authorised. It needed to show that, on 
balance, Mr W had consented to these transactions. 
She didnt think that there was strong enough evidence to say that he did. The Investigator 
thought it was likely that the transactions had been carried out by a close associate of Mr W, 
rather than an unknown third party. She was also satisfied that there was no basis for saying 
that Mr W had failed (either with intent or gross negligence) to comply with the terms and 
conditions of his account to keep his security credentials secure. Overall, she didnt think 
Santander could fairly and reasonably hold Mr W liable for the transactions.
Santander disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It pointed out that:
The statements for Mr Ws account were sent to the correct address.
Mr Ws testimony has been inconsistent  he initially said that his girlfriend handles 
all of his paperwork, but has since changed to say that she doesnt handle his 
personal paperwork.
The person who ordered a new card in branch in October 2018 wouldve needed to 
be a man who could prove he owned the account.
The counter withdrawals couldnt have been made by Mr Ws girlfriend  they needed 
to have been made by a man.
Mr W reported his dispute to Action Fraud, but they havent treated it as a crime.
Mr W waited a long time (over one year) before chasing Santander for a response to 
his claim.
As Santander disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final response.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The 13 month rule
The regulations relevant to this case set out that a complainant is only entitled to redress if 
they notify the bank without undue delay that fraud has taken place. This must be no later 
than 13 months after the disputed transaction has debited their account  the so-called 13-
month rule. Santander has said it thinks that this rule is applicable here.
Its not clear exactly what happened when Mr W discovered that these transactions had 
been made. Santander hasnt been able to find any record that Mr W told an employee in 
branch that he wanted these transactions to be investigated as fraudulent. I understand why 
it has argued that its likely that such a request wouldve been recorded.
But I dont think I can assume that an administrative error on the part of a bank employee 
simply couldnt have happened. Mr Ws recollections are that he raised the issue verbally in 
February 2019. That seems like a perfectly natural thing for him to have done on discovering 
that a series of transactions had been made from his account that he says he didnt consent 
to. I also find it noteworthy that he reported this allegation to the authorities at the same time. 
I find it improbable that he didnt notify a bank employee at the time of his discovery.
I therefore dont think the regulations allow Santander to turn down his claim for this reason. 
Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, Mr W told Santander about the disputed 
transactions promptly.
Authorisation
This is a finely balanced case because the available evidence is so limited. Mr W has told us 
unambiguously that he didnt consent to these transactions and his account of events has 
been generally consistent. The burden is therefore on Santander to demonstrate, on balance 
of probabilities, that either he did authorise them or theres another reason why its free to 
hold him liable for them.
The available evidence does show that each of these transactions was properly 
authenticated  that is, the chip was read and the correct PIN was entered. But that alone 
doesnt mean that Mr W authorised the transactions. To find that he did, I need to be 
satisfied that its likely that he consented to those transactions.
I think its likely Mr W was unaware that a new card had been requested. Its significant that 
he attempted to use the original card even after it had been replaced  first to successfully 
pay for the hire car and then the unsuccessful attempted ATM withdrawals. I find it unlikely 
hed have done so if it had been him who had ordered the replacement card. 
Mr W says he wasnt aware of the activity on the account. This wasnt an account with a high 
volume of transactions and so it isnt surprising that it would take some time before he 
realised what had happened. He didnt have online banking at the time, and he says he 
wasnt receiving statements frequently. 
Santander has said that they were sent to him every two months and its records show this 
wouldve been to the correct address. However, he told us that at his address, the post could 
occasionally go missing. Its quite plausible that could have happened to one set of 
statements, which would mean an extended period in which he didnt receive any 
information about the account. So, I dont think the fact that he didnt notice the transactions 
sooner means it can be inferred that he consented to them. 
Santander has pointed out that theres no clear point at which the security of Mr Ws PIN 
couldve been compromised, and I agree. He told us he didnt share his PIN with anyone and it wasnt easily guessable. Its unlikely that a third-party unconnected with Mr W observed 
him entering his PIN and took his card. The way the card was used strongly suggests that it 
hadnt fallen into the hands of an opportunistic fraudster. But that doesnt rule out the 
possibility that these withdrawals were carried out by someone close to Mr W  someone 
close enough to have observed him entering his PIN and, perhaps, to intercept his post. This 
is the conclusion reached by the Investigator and its one that I share. 
Santander has understandably speculated about who this other individual might have been 
and has pointed out that its unlikely it was Mr Ws girlfriend, since the person who ordered 
the replacement card in October 2018 wouldve needed to be a man. But of course, the fact 
it wasnt Mr Ws girlfriend doesnt mean it was unlikely to have been another close associate.
Ive considered Santanders other arguments, but they dont persuade me that Mr W 
authorised these transactions. Overall, although its frustrating to have so little information 
about what really happened here, the evidence that Santander has provided isnt enough to 
persuade me that its more likely than not that Mr W authorised these transactions and so I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to hold him liable for them.
Ive also considered the practical difficulties Mr W experienced when trying to make his 
complaint. He was initially told that his claim had been made in time and he was asked to 
contact Santanders fraud team. The fraud team then told him his claim hadnt been made in 
time. This was an obvious source of inconvenience and I think Santander should pay him 
£75 to reflect that.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Santander UK Plc now needs to:
Refund the disputed transactions to Mr Ws account.
Pay Mr W 8% simple interest on each of those transactions from the time he made 
them until the date it pays a settlement.
Pay Mr W £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience that was caused by 
the way his claim was handled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman