DRN-2844667
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund disputed transactions he says he didnt 
make or authorise.
What happened
Mr A had an account with Monzo.
Between 12 September 2019 and 19 November 2019, a series of transactions were made 
from Mr As account to a ride hailing taxi app, which he says he didnt make or authorise. 
The total value of those payments was just over £1,500.
Mr A say he first noticed the suspicious transactions in December 2019, shortly before 
Monzo closed his account. He says hes never lost his bank card, hadnt given his bank card 
to anyone else to use and hadnt lost his mobile phone. He thinks someone else had gotten 
hold of his card details and paid for numerous taxi fares. So, he reported the fraud to Monzo 
and asked them to investigate.
Monzo looked into the transactions and said it thought Mr A authorised them. So, it didnt 
refund him. In summary, Monzo said:
 Mr A took too long to notify them about the transactions which suggests he made 
them. The transactions had been made over a number of months, so would have 
been apparent to Mr A when he checked his account, yet Mr A didnt dispute the 
transactions with the bank at the time
 Mr A had contacted the bank on 8 October 2019 to dispute several the transactions 
which had been made between 12 September 2019 and 7 October 2019, and whilst 
speaking to him, Mr A had remembered hed given his card details to his friend to 
use for the taxi service. So, hed authorised them
 The payments were authenticated using Mr As card number and CVV 
Mr A disagreed with Monzos decision. So, he brought his complaint to this service where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
In summary the investigator said that:
Mr A hadnt lost his bank card or mobile phone and was still in possession of both 
when he reported the fraud to Monzo
Monzos technical evidence showed that Mr As bank card number, expiry date and 
CVV were needed to authenticate the transactions
The disputed transactions were carried out over a period of three months, which is 
unusual for an unknown third party 
Mr A confirmed with Monzo on 8 October 2019 that hed authorised the disputed 
transactions between 12 September 2019 and 7 October 2019. And had simply 
forgotten hed given his card details to his friend to use in the taxi app
Mr A told Monzo that he had an account with the taxi service but didnt use it much. 
However, when he brought his complaint to us, he said he didnt have an account
Several of the payments to the taxi service were declined, and on each occasion 
Mr A transferred money into his account so that the payment could be processed 
which suggested he was aware of the transactions 
It wasnt clear why a fraudster who came into possession of Mr As account details 
would choose to just set up an account with the taxi service. And not use their access 
to Mr As account for other fraudulent transactions
Monzo provided evidence showing regular log ins to Mr As online banking app 
throughout the period of the disputed activity. The investigator thought it was likely 
that Mr A would have seen the transactions on his account. And if he had done so, 
he wouldve told Monzo about them much sooner than he did if theyd been 
unauthorised
Monzo sent notifications to Mr As mobile phone after each transaction so its likely 
he would have been aware of them
Overall, the investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr A had authorised 
these transactions.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said it wasnt him who had contacted 
Monzo on 8 October 2019 about the transactions. And he hadnt noticed the transactions 
earlier as it wasnt his main account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr A and Monzo have read the investigators 
view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision.
However, I can assure Mr A that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. 
The basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr A made them or authorised them. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr A can be 
treated as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on his account. And that 
the person to whom the card has been issued must notify the firm which provided the card if 
they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay. 
For each transaction Monzo has been able to provide evidence to show the payments were 
appropriately authenticated using Mr As bank card number, and CVV. But thats not enough 
to hold Mr A liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to 
the transactions. or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr As explanation carefully Im afraid Im 
not persuaded by what Mr A has said.  I cant say for sure who was making the payments to 
the taxi service. But on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster was responsible. 
Ive considered what the PSRs say about apparent authority too and Im satisfied that Mr A did consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to say Monzo needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr A has confirmed he hadnt lost his bank card or mobile phone and was still in 
possession of both when he reported the fraud to Monzo. So, theres no plausible 
explanation for how an unknown third party was able to obtain Mr As bank card 
details. And gain access to his mobile phone. 
Monzos technical evidence showed that Mr As bank card number, expiry date and 
CVV were used to authenticate the transactions.
The payments were made over a period of three months and were for a relatively 
high value  just over £1,500. The volume of the transactions was quite considerable. 
I can see that Mr A was accessing his Monzo account online throughout the period of 
the transactions, so whilst I accept what Mr As said about not checking his account 
closely as this wasnt his main account, I think its likely he wouldve noticed that his 
balance was reducing, and if he hadnt authorised the transactions to have 
questioned them with the bank much sooner than he did. But he didnt do so until 
nearly a month after the last disputed transaction was made.
Ive also kept in mind that between 7 and 19 November 2019 several payments that 
were made to the taxi app were declined due to there being insufficient funds in 
Mr As account. And that immediately following each declined payment money was 
transferred into his account so that the payment could be processed  this suggests 
to me that Mr A was aware of his account activity. And the transactions. If he hadnt 
consented to them, I wouldve expected him to contact the bank at the time. But he 
didnt do so. Mr A also hasnt disputed the transfers which were made into his 
account so that the payments could be made. So, in the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary, Im satisfied Mr A was the person making the transfers into his account. 
The disputed transactions were carried out over a period of three months, which is 
unusual for an unknown third party. No other fraudulent transactions were made over 
this period. If, as Mr A has suggested, a fraudster was using his bank details, I would 
expect a fraudster to take the opportunity to at the very least use Mr As bank card 
details to make further fraudulent transactions  but this didnt happen. The activity 
was confined to the ride hailing taxi service. 
Ive looked at screen shots of Mr As chat history with Monzo. Of significance, on 8 
October 2020, I can see Mr A contacted the bank to dispute a number of transactions 
in September and October 2020. During the chat he confirmed that hed authorised 
the disputed transactions between 12 September 2019 and 7 October 2019. And had 
simply forgotten hed given his card details to his friend. So, Im satisfied that the 
transactions made between 12 September and 8 October 2019 were done with Mr 
As consent. Based on what he told Monzo hed given his friend authority to use his 
bank card. 
I know Mr A has told the investigator that it wasnt him whod contacted Monzo on 8 
October 2020. But I think it was. I say this because Mr A hasnt provided any 
explanation for how an unknown third party was able to gain access to his online 
Monzo account, which was required to access the banks app chat facility in order to 
contact Monzo. Ive also kept in mind that Mr A told the investigator that a PIN was 
needed to access his banking app on his mobile phone. Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr A disclosed this to someone else. The screen shots also show that believing hed been the victim of fraud, Mr A said 
hed blocked his card, wanted to update his email address to the same email address 
hes provided to our service, and said hed asked for a refund from the taxi service 
which hadnt yet appeared in his account. I find it unlikely that someone other than 
Mr A wouldve been aware of such level of detail about his account, transactions and 
personal information. I also think its unlikely that a fraudster would contact the bank 
to dispute transactions on Mr As account.
So, when I weigh everything up, I find on balance, that Mr A made or otherwise authorised 
the disputed transactions. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman