DRN-2271669
The complaint
Mr K complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr K was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. He borrowed £2,000 in September 2014 and 
agreed to repay the loan in weekly instalments over the following 18 months. The loan was 
secured against Mr Ks vehicle.
Mr K faced problems repaying the loan and fell into arrears. Loans 2 Go instructed a 
recovery agent to repossess Mr Ks vehicle. Whilst the repossession was underway Mr Ks 
wife borrowed some money from a family member to repay the arrears and prevent the 
repossession going ahead. Mr K ultimately fully repaid the loan in May 2016.
Mr Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Although she thought the 
checks Loans 2 Go had done before agreeing the loan were proportionate, she thought 
those checks suggested it was unlikely that Mr K would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. So she didnt think the loan should have been agreed and asked 
Loans 2 Go to pay Mr K some compensation.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr K accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ks complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mr K required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr K. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr K undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr K.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It also asked Mr K for a copy of his bank 
statements and it says it checked his credit file. Although I havent seen the results of that 
credit check Im not aware of any adverse information at that time that might have caused 
additional concerns to the lender.
Mr K was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
weekly repayments for a period of eighteen months. So I think it was reasonable for 
Loans 2 Go to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ks 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think the checks Loans 2 Go did, by 
asking Mr K for copies of his bank statements, achieved that objective. I think that the 
checks Loans 2 Go did were proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react 
appropriately to the information shown by those checks. So Ive looked carefully at the bank 
statements Mr K gave to Loans 2 Go, and some of his bank statements from a couple of 
months before, to see what Loans 2 Go should have concluded from its checks.
Even the most cursory examination of Mr Ks bank statements would reveal that he was 
making a significant number of transactions to an online gambling company. I think that 
should have caused some concerns to the lender, and prompted further checks. 
It is entirely reasonable that consumers should be free to spend any spare income how they 
choose  I am not suggesting that Loans 2 Go should make some form of value judgement 
about how Mr K was choosing to spend his money. But the nature and patterns of Mr Ks 
spending do not suggest that he is able to easily control that spending. The gambling 
transactions, both on the statement that Loans 2 Go examined and on the statements from 
the months before that I looked at, all suggest that Mr Ks gambling expenditure represented 
a form of addiction. As an example  in the month before the loan was agreed Mr K had 
spent significantly more than his normal income on gambling transactions.Loans 2 Go needed to ensure that Mr K would be able to repay his borrowing in a 
sustainable manner. I would normally expect that Loans 2 Go should reassure itself the 
repayments could be made from a consumers income or savings. Here I dont think 
Loans 2 Go could be confident that would be the case. I think it would be most likely that 
Mr K would be reliant on winnings from his gambling activities in order to support his 
repayments.
I have considered that Loans 2 Go has said that Mr K settled the loan early, and that this 
was an indication that its decision to agree the loan was correct. A consumer being able to 
repay a loan early doesnt always mean that it has been lent responsibly  a consumer might 
borrow from another lender, or perhaps rely on gambling winnings, to make that repayment. 
Here Mr K ran up significant arrears, and was only able to stop his car being repossessed by 
borrowing from a family member. I dont think Loans 2 Go can reasonably draw any comfort 
from Mr Ks repayment record on this loan.
So on balance I dont think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude, from the 
information that proportionate checks showed, that Mr K would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given this loan to Mr K, and 
now needs to pay him some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr K. So Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges (including any charges relating to the attempted 
repossession of the vehicle) that Mr K paid on the loan.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman