DRN-3799613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly declined a 
claim made on their buildings warranty.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs M or AmTrust includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
Mr and Mrs M hold a buildings warranty for a new build property that is let to tenants. 
The warranty cover began on 5 March 2018 and is provided by AmTrust.
This included a defect insurance period (DIP) which covers certain issues 
discovered within the first two years if the developer fails to resolve them. And a 
structural insurance period (SIP) which provides cover for certain issues discovered 
in years three to ten. 
Mr and Mrs M reported an issue with their propertys roof to the developer in late 
2018. The developer carried out works some months later around March 2019.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs Ms tenants raised a concern about damage.
Following a dispute with the developer Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their 
Company A legal expenses insurance policy (LEI). Various reports were 
commissioned that Mr and Mrs M say show the damage was due to a breach of 
building regulations.
Mr and Mrs M had a subsequent dispute with Company A over their LEI cover, then 
they sought to make a claim under their AmTrust warranty. 
AmTrust said for the cover to apply under the DIP part of the warranty, Mr and Mrs M 
needed to have notified AmTrust by 5 September 2020 of the issues. But no contact 
was made to AmTrust until 11 January 2022.
AmTrust also said the issues being claimed for were discovered during the DIP 
period, therefore would not be covered by the SIP cover in line with its policy terms.
Mr and Mrs M complained to AmTrust. They said they had no idea they were 
required to tell AmTrust of the dispute. And that when the developer completed 
repairs in March 2019, they had mistakenly believed the matter was resolved. And it 
was only when the matter was reported by their tenants in January 2021 they had 
reason to believe otherwise.
Mr and Mrs M have told this Service they wouldve raised the issue earlier with 
AmTrust, but for the actions of Company A. And that in hindsight they had regretted 
not contacting their warranty provider instead of approaching Company A.
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said the policy 
terms were clear, and that Mr and Mrs M shouldve raised the matter with AmTrust by 
September 2020 at the latest, but they didnt do so until January 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, arguing their delay in raising the claim with AmTrust had 
not prejudiced its position. Our Investigator reconsidered matters but didnt change 
his mind.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have argued their claim should be considered under the SIP part of 
the warranty. For completeness, Ive considered the matter under both DIP and SIP. 
The DIP section of the policy says AmTrust will indemnify the policyholder for certain 
defects the developer is responsible for which are discovered and notified to the 
developer within the DIP and notified to AmTrust no later than six months after DIP 
ends.
The damage in question originally showed itself in 2018. Theres no dispute the 
cause is the same between this and later events, with the crux of Mr and Mrs Ms 
argument being the quality of the repair carried out by Company A in 2019 not fully 
addressing the issue.
So, its clear to me the damage was discovered during the DIP. And while it was 
brought to the attention of the developer, the matter wasnt raised with AmTrust until 
January 2022  well outside of the time period specified and around a year after 
discovery. This means the requirement under the policy for Mr and Mrs M to raise the 
matter with AmTrust wasnt met. On its face, that means AmTrust have fairly declined 
the matter as it was brought late.
Ive gone on to consider whether this application of the terms is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M had believed the matter would be covered by their LEI 
policy so they said there had been no need to raise this matter with AmTrust. But 
their decision to pursue a matter through the courts or legal action was their own and 
not AmTrusts. So, I dont think its fair to make their choice AmTrusts responsibility.
I have also thought about whether the delayed notification on the part of Mr and Mrs 
M has prejudiced AmTrusts position. I think this is a reasonable consideration. In this 
case the delay was considerable, with around a year difference between the date the 
tenants raised issues and the date Mr and Mrs M informed AmTrust. Across this 
time, it seems Mr and Mrs M and/or their representative agents took steps to try to 
resolve matters, with various reports produced. So, it seems clear to me the 
opportunity for AmTrust to intervene and try to resolve matters in a way it saw fit was 
most likely prejudiced. For this reason, Im satisfied AmTrusts decision to decline the 
claim under DIP was fair.
Mr and Mrs M have said AmTrust should consider the matter instead under SIP as 
they had believed the damage was resolved in 2019 after the developer completed a 
repair. And it wasnt until January 2021 they became aware of the true cause of the 
damage when their tenants reported the matter.
The SIP part of the policy says it will cover certain damage the policyholder 
discovered and notified to the underwriter during the SIP. Here, AmTrust argues the 
claim discovery was actually during the DIP period, going back to 2018. While Mr and Mrs M have said they had believed the matter was resolved following the developers 
earlier repairs, it seems clear the matter from 2021 is linked to the same issue. So, 
Im satisfied AmTrust has fairly declined the claim under the SIP section.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman