DRN-2461733
The complaint
Mrs D complains AWP Assistance UK Ltd (trading as Allianz Global Assistance) (Allianz) 
mis-sold her a boiler breakdown insurance policy.
Mrs D has been represented in this complaint by Mr D. But since Mrs D is the policyholder, 
Ill mostly refer to Mrs D in this decision.
What happened
Mrs D bought her boiler breakdown cover online in April 2019 through a utility company 
website. The policy was sold by Allianz.
Mrs Ds policy says she isnt covered for the cost of repairing her boiler if its beyond 
economic repair. The policy says this is when the insurers approved engineer says the 
repair costs (taking into account the parts and labour required) are more than the value of 
the boiler. It says this is based on the boilers date of manufacture, type and make and 
whether or not manufacturer replacement parts are still available.  
In November 2019 (I believe following a breakdown) the insurer told Mrs D her boiler was 
beyond economic repair. When she complained about this, the insurer said parts for Mrs Ds 
boiler would cost nearly £750 and costs for labour and a power flush to the system would 
also need be added. As against these repair costs, it said it had valued Mrs Ds boiler at 
£583.33. And it said it had done this by working off a matrix based on the depreciation of a 
boiler thats calculated in line with the market based on the number of repairs to the boiler. 
Mrs D says she wouldnt have bought the policy if shed known about the matrix and the 
value the insurer gave her boiler when she claimed. So she says Allianz mis-sold her the 
cover.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Ds complaint didnt think Allianz needed to take any 
further action. She said it was for the insurer (and not Allianz as the seller of the policy) to 
decide the boilers value and whether it was beyond economic repair at the time Mrs D made 
a claim. She said she wouldnt have expected Allianz to share this information with Mrs D 
when she bought the policy.
Mrs D disagrees and so her complaint has come to me to decide.
I know Mrs D has previously complained to us about how the insurer handled her claim for 
the boiler repairs. I understand that complaint is now closed. But, just to be clear, my 
decision here relates only to the sale of the policy by Allianz.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
and Mr D  who has argued strongly for it to be upheld. But I hope the reasons Im about to 
give will help them to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Before I give my reasons, I should say Im disappointed Allianz hasnt given us its file for  
Mrs Ds mis-sale complaint, despite our requests. It means the information I have about the 
policy sale to Mrs D is quite limited. But Im grateful Mr D has told us what he remembers 
about it.
Mr D says he/Mrs D went through a utility company website, which took them to Allianzs 
website. He says he and Mrs D knew when they were buying the policy there was a section 
in it about what happens when a boiler is beyond economic repair. But they say Allianz 
shouldve made it clear the insurer would value the boiler at £583.33 if Mrs D needed to 
claim.
From the information I have on this complaint  and especially bearing in mind Mrs D applied 
for it online  I dont think its likely Allianz made a bespoke recommendation to her to buy 
the cover. So it didnt need to make sure it was right for her in her particular circumstances  
that was something Mrs D needed to decide for herself. But Allianz did need to give Mrs D 
enough clear information about the main terms and conditions of the policy, so she could 
make her decision about whether or not to buy it in an informed way.
If there are important conditions, limitations or exclusions in a policy  particularly where 
these wouldnt be obvious to a customer, arent standard, or restrict the cover on offer  wed 
usually expect a business to draw these to a customers attention. 
From what Mr D (on Mrs Ds behalf) has said, Mrs D was aware that her boiler wouldnt be 
covered if it was beyond economic repair. So I think its likely this limitation on cover was 
made reasonably clear to Mrs D by Allianz  as I wouldve expected. And the policy 
document is also clear the maximum amount the insurer will pay out during the period of 
cover is £1,500 (including VAT).
But Mrs D says Allianz shouldve gone further and told her before she bought the cover the 
specific value the insurer placed on her boiler. She says this is effectively the amount of 
cover the policy gives and so should be given when the policy is sold, since its a major 
factor in deciding whether or not to buy it. 
 
While I understand the arguments Mrs D makes, I dont agree. I dont think its standard 
industry practice for sellers of this type of boiler breakdown insurance to give anyone who 
applies for cover the specific value an insurer might place on their boiler if they were to make 
a claim in the future. Nor do I think it would be fair and reasonable in Mrs Ds particular case 
to require Allianz, as the seller of the policy, to do so. I think it was enough that Mrs D was 
made aware when she bought the policy that  in addition to the overall cover limit of £1,500 
 thered could be circumstances when, below that level of £1,500, the insurer might decide 
her boiler was beyond economic repair under the policy terms.
Ive seen the matrix the insurer used to decide Mrs Ds boiler was beyond economic repair. 
As you might expect, it looks at a boilers age as against a sliding scale of repair costs 
(exclusive of VAT). We havent been able to show Mrs D this matrix because it contains 
commercially sensitive information. And for this reason  in addition to those Ive already 
given  I wouldnt have expected Allianz (as the seller of the policy) to make this information 
available to Mrs D when she bought the policy (even supposing it had access to it).I agree with our investigator that it was only when Mrs D made a claim that Id expect the 
insurer to make an assessment about whether or not her boiler was economic to repair  
and this is what happened in Mrs Ds case.
Ive considered all the arguments Mr D has made on Mrs Ds behalf. But while I know the 
strength of his views on this complaint, they dont change my conclusions. From what Ive 
seen, I dont think Allianz treated Mrs D unfairly when it sold her the policy, so I dont think it 
needs to do anything to put things right for her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman