DRN-2114439
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined part of her car insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs D was involved in an accident in November 2019, where her vehicle was hit from behind 
by another driver. There was damage to the back of her vehicle where she was hit. But Mrs 
D says frontal damage was caused by the impact on the kerb, as she was trying to avoid 
collision with another vehicle in front. 
Aviva took on the claim and agreed to repair the back of the vehicle, but it declined to cover 
any of the damage to the front. It said the damage to the front wasnt accident related, it was 
due to wear and tear and other incidents not in this claim and was excluded under the policy 
terms. 
Mrs D complained, maintaining the collision with the kerb caused the frontal damage. She 
said there was also the factor of poor repairs on a previous claim, and she felt shed 
received a poor level of communication from Aviva.
Aviva didnt change its position in respect of the damage to the front. It accepted the 
comments about the level of communication and offered £150 compensation. 
Mrs D didnt accept this and asked us to look into things. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt think Aviva needed to do anything else. The engineers comments 
sufficiently explained why they didnt think the front damage was accident related. She also 
felt the compensation offered for the level of service was fair. 
Mrs D didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas policy booklet sets out what cover it provides in the event of a claim. Under loss or 
damage cover, there is a list of exclusions. One of these explains that Aviva wont pay for 
loss of use, wear and tear, deterioration, depreciation, or any loss or damage which happens 
gradually. 
The nature of the exclusion isnt unusual and is present in every car insurance policy Ive 
seen. It means an insurer will only pay for damage thats connected to an accident, rather 
than general wear and tear or damage that was present before it insured a vehicle. 
Avivas engineer inspected the vehicle and produced a report. I can see within the report the 
engineer has commented that the front bumper has been impacted 2 or 3 times against 
kerbs and speed humps. They also say that the front wings of the bumper are badly 
corroded. They go on to explain that this should be dealt with as a separate claim, as it 
appeared to be unrelated to the most recent accident. 
I can also see that whilst reviewing the damage during the complaint Aviva had mentioned 
that based on the photos, some of the damage to the front bumper was above kerb height. 
This information also supported that the damage had occurred separately to the claim. 
Based on these comments and the engineers observations, I think it was reasonable for 
Aviva to decline cover for the damage to the front of the car on this claim as not directly 
connected to the accident. Under the terms of the policy, this type of damage is excluded. 
I appreciate Mrs D has experienced quite a bit of stress over this claim. Part of this was to do 
with her being unhappy with the quality or repairs during a previous accident. Aviva offered 
£150 in respect of some customer service issues Mrs D experienced during this claim. Some 
of the calls she made to Aviva were met with long queue times and she had to chase for 
updates on several occasions. It appears most of these problems happened during the 
month following her registering the claim. 
Based on what shes described, Im satisfied Aviva caused some stress and inconvenience. 
But the £150 already offered is a fair and reasonable outcome considering what Mrs Ds told 
us and the duration of time involved. 
If Mrs D thinks previous claim repairs were poorly done, or that there are other incidents she 
may to claim for, then shed need to make this clear to Aviva.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £150. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva should pay Mrs D £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman