DRN-3875144
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (firstdirect) didnt 
make an international payment.
What happened
On 17 November 2021, Mrs A and Mr A instructed an international payment of £30,000 to a
beneficiary in Canada. The instruction was made online. On 14 December 2021, the amount
was credited back to their firstdirect account; but there was an exchange rate movement
against them which meant that £29,110.82 was returned. The reason given for the failed
payment was invalid account number.
Mrs A and Mr A complained. They said that firstdirect should bear the loss of £890. This was
because theyd made the payment before successfully and to the same beneficiary, with the
same account number and branch details. The beneficiary bank was in fact a branch of a
private bank, and HSBC shouldve known that and advised them about that; or amended the
payment. They said they received little support from firstdirect in tracing the payment or
advising them what had happened. So, they were left worrying about what had happened to
the £30,000 for several weeks. Subsequently, they learned that firstdirect had received the
money back from Canada on 24 November 2021, so there had been a long delay in re-
crediting their account.
Firstdirect said they couldnt say why the payment had been rejected  as the same details
had been used for other payments to the same beneficiary in the past. They suggested that
Mrs A and Mr A take that up through the beneficiary and his bank. But firstdirect had put a
trace on the payment and had chased that through. A lower amount had been returned to
Mrs A and Mr As bank account due to the exchange rate used at the time the funds were
converted back to GBP. The terms and conditions covering payments said that if this
happened, the account holder should bear the difference.
Mrs A and Mr A brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said the onus was on the
person requesting the international payment to provide the correct details  and that was 
Mrs A and Mr A. He couldnt explain why the payment had been returned - as similar
payments had been made in the past. But  Mrs A and Mr A had contacted firstdirect on 26
November 2021 to find out about the payment as it hadnt been received by the beneficiary.
And it then took until 14 December 2021 for it to be returned to their bank account. For this
delay, he said that compensation of £100 should be paid.
Mrs A and Mr A didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Mrs A and Mr A had made payments to the beneficiary using the same account number and
branch sort code before, and those were successful  I could see this was the case when
payments were made on 29 July 2021 and then on 16 November 2021. So  it was a
mystery as to why the payment on 17 November 2021 wasnt also successful. Firstdirect
cant say what happened, and Ive seen nothing that shines any light on the matter, other
than the payment was returned with the message invalid account number.
Mrs A and Mr A made the payment online  using the same details as for the previous
payments theyd made to the same beneficiary. But  in those circumstances, it is the
responsibility of the person instructing the payment to make sure the details are correct. Mrs
A and Mr A make the point that the beneficiary bank appeared to be a branch of a private
bank, and that couldnt have been correct  but in all fairness, we cant expect firstdirect to
have known that or to have advised Mrs A and Mr A to change the payment because of that.
I looked at firstdirects terms and conditions and they say that if a payment fails and is
returned, then any losses are for the payers account. They say If a payment is returned to
us.well reverse it using the exchange rate at that time. The exchange rate may have
changed. So the amount we pay back may be more or less than we originally took from your
account.
In these circumstances, we would expect firstdirect to act and put a trace on the payment 
which weve seen they did after Mr A called them on 26 November 2021.
And so  in this case, first direct acted reasonably in the ways Ive described, and I dont
think it would be fair or reasonable to ask them to refund the exchange loss of £890 to Mrs A
and Mr A.
But Ive then considered how firstdirect helped Mrs A and Mr A. They told us they are both in
their 80s and Mr A is registered blind. I can see that Mr A called firstdirect on 23 November
2021; 26 November 2021; 7 December 2021 and 13 December 2021. Each time he was told
that firstdirect were trying to trace the payment. On 14 December 2021, Mr A called again
and was told the payment was being refunded to the bank account.
But I can also see that the money was returned to the bank earlier - on 24 November 2021.
And therefore, when Mr A made the latter three calls to firstdirect, the money was back with
the bank; and presumably firstdirect couldve advised him of that  rather than saying it was
still being traced through the international payments system. And so  it seems to me that
here, firstdirect couldve put Mrs A and Mr As minds at rest much earlier than they did. And
as a result, Mrs A and Mr A had the worry and stress for a lot longer than needed to be the
case  the potential loss of £30,000 was clearly a concern and a worry for them.
I can then see that it took from 24 November 2021 to 14 December 2021 to refund the
money to Mrs A and Mr As bank account. Firstdirect said this was due to being busy and
staff shortages. I dont think thats a fair reason for the delay  during which period, Mrs A
and Mr A had no knowledge of what had happened to the money.
Mrs A and Mr A have argued strongly that they were distressed and worried about the
whereabouts of a large sum of money  theyve said they had many sleepless nights. And I
can appreciate that. And in this case, it would be reasonable to expect firstdirect to have
been able to advise them at an earlier stage what the position was; and also refund the
money to their bank account much earlier than they did.
And so, Im persuaded that this justifies a higher amount of compensation here. Our service
has set out criteria for considering awards. We say an award up to £300 might be suitable
where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a
reasonable effort to sort out. Typically, the businesss actions could have resulted in some
acute stress lasting hours at the lower end  or a have had a milder impact across a few
days, or even weeks. In line with this and in the circumstances of this complaint, I think
compensation of £250 is appropriate for the reasons Ive set out.Responses to the provisional decision:
Firstdirect accepted the findings and compensation. But Mrs A and Mr A made several 
comments in response. In summary, they said:
1) The tracing process didnt start for five busines days after the payment was sent  
they were told that by firstdirect. And by the time they later called again, the money 
was already back with firstdirect, but they werent told that.
2) The loss on the exchange rate was due to firstdirect unfairly profiting from using a 
rate which made profit for the company  rather than using (say) a mid-point rate. 
The clause in firstdirects terms and conditions is therefore misleading  it should say 
a different rate should be used.
3) Firstdirect shouldve contacted Mrs A and Mr A when the funds were returned and 
asked them how they wanted to deal with their return  rather than converting it back 
to GBP. In this way, the exchange loss couldve been avoided as they wanted to 
make the currency payment again.
4) The beneficiary suffered a cost of £200 due to having to borrow money for the period 
the payment was delayed by  it was resent on 22 December 2021. But it was 
unlikely that they could get any evidence to show this cost.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate the further points that Mrs A and Mr A have made. I will comment on them in 
turn:
1) I accept that the process of the trace and the time taken to return the funds to Mrs A 
and Mr As account was slower than it should reasonably have been  I covered this 
in the provisional decision.
2) I hear what Mrs A and Mr A have said here. But the main thrust of the section in the 
terms and conditions is that  there may well be a loss on the exchange rate. Which I 
think is reasonable. And  firstdirect did have to convert the Canadian dollars they 
received back to GBP  and at the prevailing exchange rate at that time. I dont think 
its reasonable to expect firstdirect to use a different rate.
3) During our investigation, we asked firstdirect if they could hold the funds in the way 
suggested by Mrs A and Mr A. And they simply dont have the systems or processes 
to do that. And the nature of our role is that we cant insist that a firm changes its 
operational processes. 
4) This is a new complaint point. We could only consider further compensation in this 
respect if we can see evidence of the cost  which Mrs A and Mr A say they cant 
get. And more importantly, I would have to be reasonably sure that the loss was 
caused by an error by firstdirect. And in the provisional decision  I am that firstdirect 
were not responsible for the funds not being credited to the account in Canada  as 
they were returned by the beneficiary bank (with the reason invalid account 
number). Rather - the compensation I proposed was for the delay at firstdirect in dealing with the return of the funds once they were back in the UK, and for the poor 
service given when Mrs A and Mr A called for information.
Therefore, in making my final decision, for the reasons Ive given, I am not changing from the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct must:
Pay compensation of £250 for stress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr 
A to accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman