DRN-2486745
The complaint
Mr W complains about information he was given by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) regarding his current account.
What happened
On 26 February 2020, Mr W visited a branch of NatWest to pay in a cheque of £10,000.
Mr W says he made phone calls to NatWest about the cheque and the balance on his 
account. Hes unhappy with the conflicting information he received on the calls  mainly in 
relation to what he was told the balance or available balance on his account was.
Mr W says that from the information he was given, there was a discrepancy of £3000, and 
that NatWest should pay him this £3000.
NatWest responded to Mr Ws complaint. It agreed that it hadnt provided him with a 
standard of service it would have expected  mainly in relation to the information he received 
about his balance. To apologise for this, it paid Mr W £60. 
However, it didnt agree that there was a £3000 discrepancy in Mr Ws balance, and so it 
didnt agree he should be refunded this money.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. She agreed that the service Mr W had received 
on the phone could have been better, but she thought that the £60 NatWest had already 
paid to Mr W was enough to compensate him for this. She didnt think there was a 
discrepancy in the balance on Mr Ws account and so she didnt think NatWest needed to do 
anything else to put things right for Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree and made a number of points. In summary, he didnt think it was 
appropriate or fair that the representative at NatWest had given him confusing information 
about the balance of his account and the cheque for £10,000 he paid into the account. He 
remained of the opinion that NatWest should compensate him £3000. 
Because Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Id like to make Mr W aware that I have considered everything that he has said in relation to 
his complaint in reaching my decision  I know he feels strongly about it. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr W, 
but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr W was given conflicting information about his balance 
during a call he had with NatWest on 26 February 2020. He also says there was a 
discrepancy of £3000 in his balance and he wants NatWest to pay him this amount. Mr W 
also says that when he made a further call to NatWest on 5 March 2020 about a cheque he 
paid in, he was told it wasnt showing on his account. 
Its worth noting that this service is an impartial resolution service. We dont take sides and 
we look at what each party tells us about what has happened. We dont punish or fine 
businesses  this is the role of the FCA. Where we find that something has gone wrong, we 
will ask the business to put things right, by putting the consumer back in the position they 
would have been in had that it not gone wrong. 
In this case, both parties agree that some of the information NatWests representatives gave 
Mr W was confusing. And it hadnt been made clear to him what his balance was when he 
asked. NatWest has acknowledged this, and paid Mr W £60. I think this is a fair offer and I 
wont be asking NatWest to pay him anymore. While I can appreciate how frustrating it must 
have been to get confusing information, having listened to the calls we have available, I can 
hear that Mr W was eventually given the correct information  and from listening to the calls, 
Mr W seems to have understood the position of his account. 
Mr W has raised concerns about us not being given the recording of an additional call he 
says he made on 5 March 2020, to ask about a cheque he paid in for £10,000. And hes 
concerned that a member of staff might have deleted this. I dont think it is likely that 
someone at NatWest deleted the call. Not all calls are traceable or recorded  I dont draw 
anything negative from this. And even if I accept what Mr W has said about what was 
discussed during the call, it wouldnt lead me to increase the compensation amount NatWest 
has already paid him. I appreciate it must have been concerning to understand that a 
cheque for that amount wasnt in the account, but NatWest did send Mr W a letter after this 
call stating that the cheque had been credited to the account on 26 February 2020. So, he 
hasnt lost out financially here.
Ive gone on to look at the balance on Mr Ws account. I cant agree that there has been a 
discrepancy in this. Looking at the statements, his balance increases and decreases in line 
with payments received and leaving the account. The discrepancy Mr W refers to is because 
when he was told his balance was £503.86 over the phone, this was what he had available 
to spend  or left of his overdraft to spend. And his actual balance was into his overdraft of 
£2496.14. This isnt a discrepancy, and I dont think there has been any money that has 
gone missing from the account. I feel this information could have been explained better by 
NatWest, but essentially, this hasnt had a financial impact on Mr W. So, I wont be asking 
NatWest to pay Mr W the amount he has asked for.
It can take time for a check to clear into account. The funds arent usually immediately 
available. While they might be showing in the balance, or available balance, they can take 
around five working days to fully clear. So, I think it likely this is where some of the confusion 
has arisen from during the calls Mr W has had with NatWest. Because I dont have a copy of 
the call from 5 March 2020, I dont know exactly what was said  the funds should have 
been showing at this point, so it isnt clear why the representative couldnt see the amount 
Mr W paid in. However, as Ive said, NatWest did later send Mr W a letter confirming the 
funds were in his account.I cant agree that Mr W has been financially impacted here, I havent seen any evidence of 
funds in his account going missing. NatWest has paid Mr W £60 for the service hes 
received, and I think this is a fair amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman