DRN-4264275
The complaint
S, a business partnership, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough 
to help it recover a payment made in error.
What happened
S explains that on 14 March 2022 it sent a payment of £10,633 to the wrong payee. It 
contacted NatWest on 15 March 2022 and followed this up. S was then told that the request 
to recover this wasnt initially made correctly and then that the payment couldnt be 
recovered. S says it had to call on numerous occasions to obtain the promised details of the 
beneficiary.
NatWest accepted it had made mistakes. The initial request to recover the payment hadnt 
been completed correctly. And this wasnt corrected until 14 June 2022. It then paid S £400 
in compensation. In August 2022 it told S that the receiving bank hadnt received a response 
from the beneficiary and so the money couldnt be recovered. NatWest offered to obtain the 
name and address of the beneficiary for S under the Payment Services Regulations (PSR) 
2017. In December 2022 it accepted that S had asked for this information a number of times 
and it paid it a further £100 in compensation. The information about the beneficiary was 
provided on 17 January 2023. When it sent its case file to this service it offered to pay S an 
additional £300 in compensation noting the time S had spent on the phone requesting this 
information.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything more than it had now offered to. She 
said that she didnt think that the beneficiary would have likely responded had it been 
contacted earlier. And the total compensation now of £800 was reasonable to reflect the 
delays and poor service provided.
S didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said that the 
compensation doesnt reflect the losses. S had spent time on this due to NatWests failings. 
The offer also doesnt compensate it for the financial loss. NatWest had only provided the 
beneficiarys information in January 2023, and this affected its ability to recover the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from the complaint form provided to this service that S states that having made a 
payment to the wrong payee it was unsuccessful in getting the recipient to return the funds 
and reported this to NatWest on 15 March [2022]. NatWest is expected to make reasonable 
efforts to recover the payment. And there is industry guidance that it should make the 
recovery request within two working days. There is no guarantee of success and no right to 
a refund in cases where a faster payment was effectively authorised by S even if in error. A 
refund would depend on the beneficiary agreeing to this and here there was no response.
S was entitled under the PSR to all available relevant information in order for the payer to 
claim repayment of the funds. And NatWest offered to obtain the name and address of the 
payee. It is sometimes the case that where say payee details have been input incorrectly 
that the sender doesnt know where the money has gone. Here it seems S did know the 
name of the beneficiary, but it wanted as much information as possible. Ive listened to calls 
made by S about this from  August 2022. And its clear that there was a lack of 
understanding by NatWest members of staff about the nature of the query and what had 
already been offered in a letter. To obtain this information required NatWest to contact the 
recipient bank for the details. And it did that when it says the case was reopened on 28 
December 2022 and was able to obtain these and provide them to S on 13 January 2023.
my assessment
Clearly S wants a refund of the payment. I dont have any information about the outcome of 
any efforts it has since made to recover the money say through legal means. And so, to be 
able to consider whether had these been commenced earlier they would say have been 
successful or even less costly. I also dont have a basis to think that the recipient would have 
agreed to refund the funds had it been contacted any earlier by its own bank. S says it sent 
the money by mistake and at the time as I set out above it was unable to get the money 
back. This was a significant payment, and it seems most likely that had the recipient been 
prepared to recognise this was an error then it would have sought to rectify this at an early 
stage. Im afraid I dont have a basis on the evidence available to find that NatWests 
mistakes here resulted in S not receiving a refund.
As I referred to NatWest has caused S inconvenience including through the need to make a 
number of unproductive and frustrating calls and this led to an avoidable delay. I need to 
decide whether the compensation now offered is appropriate taking into account our 
published guidelines and that we dont make punitive awards. We also dont tend to make 
awards for specific units of time and nor at professional rates. Having taken these points and 
everything else into account I consider that its offer is reasonable, and I wont be requiring it 
to do more than that. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay S a further £300 making a total of £800 as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman