DRN-2028318
 
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc accepted her credit card application, as she 
thinks it was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs G took out a credit card with Capital One. It accepted the application and 
provided Mrs G with a credit limit of £200. In December 2018, Capital One wrote to Mrs G 
and said she had defaulted on her account. It closed her account.
Mrs G complained to Capital One, as she thought it was irresponsible to have lent to her. 
Capital One said that it had carried out proper checks when it considered her application for 
the credit card. However, as Mrs G continued to miss or partly pay the minimum payments 
on the account, it had to default her account.
Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that 
Capital One had acted reasonably in deciding to lend to her and had carried out appropriate 
checks.
As Mrs G did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 June 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
In cases like this, when someone thinks theyve been lent to irresponsibly, we look at the 
checks the business carried out when it made its decision to lend and also whether those 
checks were proportionate.
In Mrs Gs case, Capital One took into account her employment status and earnings that she 
declared on her application form. It looked at Mrs Gs credit file which showed the credit 
available to her via other lenders, including the status of those accounts, and the status of 
accounts with other lenders that were now closed. Mrs G already had a credit card with 
Capital One, so it also looked at the status of that account. It didnt ask Mrs G for an income 
and expenditure form because it didnt think this was proportionate to the amount of credit 
applied for.
Ive looked at that data as well to see whether I think the checks were proportionate and 
whether it showed cause for concern. Mrs G already had a credit card with Capital One 
since March 2016. This meant that Capital One already had information on her as a 
customer. Ive gone through the credit card statements for the first credit card for the period 
from when that account was opened to when she was issued with the second credit card, 
which is the card that is the focus of this complaint.
From the statements, I can see that by the second month of having the first credit card, Mrs 
G was within the credit limit, but only by £4. By month four, she was over the credit limit, as 
was the case the following month. In the first year of having that credit card, she went over 
the credit limit five times. I can also see that Mrs G made at least the minimum payment, 
although one payment was returned unpaid, and often more than the minimum required.
Ive also looked at all the information provided to us as part of this case, including the credit 
card application and Mrs Gs credit file, to see what level of detail Capital One had available 
to it and whether there were indications that it would be irresponsible to lend to Mrs G. This 
showed the range of lending that Mrs G currently, and previously, had access to when she 
made the application and the status of those accounts.
Ive thought about this. Although I think the credit checks and other data could have been 
interpreted as demonstrating that Mrs G was more likely than not to be able to make the 
payments, I think that data didnt show the whole picture. However, Capital One had some 
key information available to it already, which was Mrs Gs history with it as a customer.
When Mrs G complained about being issued with the second credit card, Capital One said 
that her existing Capital One credit card was in good order with  payments and that In 
the 12 months leading up to this application, we generally received payments for your 
Classic account which were greater than the minimum payment and they were generally 
received on time. In my view, this doesnt accurately characterise Mrs Gs account conduct 
over the previous 12 months. In particular it fails to acknowledge that Mrs G went over her 
credit limit five times in that 12 month period and that in the months that she was within her 
credit limit, it was only by a few pounds. 
Although I accept that Mrs G generally made at least the minimum payment, this was doing 
little to reduce the amount that she owed and even when she made more than the minimum 
payment, she was still often over the credit limit. In addition, in the six months up to and 
including the one in which Mrs G applied for the second credit card, she withdrew cash on 
the first credit card. I accept that this is permitted in the terms and conditions of the card. 
However, in the context of the account regularly being over the credit limit and cash 
withdrawals regularly being made on the card from when it was first taken out, I think that 
there were potentially strong indications that Capital One should have looked into the 
application in more detail.
If Capital One had used these indicators as a prompt to get a more detailed picture of Mrs 
Gs financial position, this is likely to have included looking at her income and expenditure. If 
it had done this it would have likely found, based on what Mrs G told this service about her 
expenditure at the time that she applied for the second card, that after she had paid her rent 
and other household bills, made the payment on loans and paid other costs, such as food, 
that she had about £50, but sometimes nothing, left each month. I think that Capital One 
would then have given more detailed consideration to whether it was appropriate to allow her 
to have a second credit card.
I also note that in the first month that Mrs G had the second credit card, over half of the 
available credit was used for cash withdrawals. The next month, Mrs Gs payment was 
reversed and she was charged a range of fees related to this and the cash withdrawals. 
Given the picture that had built up from the use of the first card, I dont think this was a 
surprising turn of events and is something that Capital One could reasonably have 
considered as a likely potential scenario if Mrs G was issued with a second credit card.
On that basis, I think that Capital One held information that strongly indicated that Mrs G was 
more likely than not going to struggle to make the payments and stay within the credit limit if 
she was given additional credit. I therefore think that, based on everything Ive mentioned 
above, it shouldnt have accepted the second credit card application.
Mrs G has spent money the credit card made available to her, so I dont think its fair to say 
that she gets that back. But she has had to pay interest and charges on what shes spent 
because of Capital Ones decision to lend to her. I therefore intend to require Capital One to reimburse her for these. As Mrs G shouldnt have been given the credit card, I also intend to 
direct Capital One to remove any adverse data from her credit file.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 July 2020.
Mrs G accepted the decision.
Capital One replied and said that the indicators from Mrs Gs use of her first credit card were 
reflected in its internal credit score at the time of her application for the second card. This, as 
well as the other information it considered during the application process, led to its decision 
to offer a relatively low credit limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Im not persuaded by Capital Ones 
response to my provisional decision. It has argued that it reflected the higher credit risk 
presented by Mrs G in its internal credit score and that this, along with other information 
gathered as part of the application, was why it set her credit limit at £200. However, I am still 
of the view that the information it held was a strong indication that Mrs G was more likely 
than not to struggle to make payments and stay within the credit limit  and this was 
regardless of what the credit limit was set at. So, I still dont think it should have accepted the 
credit card application.
Putting things right
Capital One must remove all interest and charges from Mrs Gs credit card account. If this 
means the debt would have been paid off at some point and/or Mrs G has made repayments 
she wouldnt have otherwise made, then Capital One must refund those payments. It must 
also remove any adverse information relating to Mrs Gs credit card account from her credit 
file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld and that Capital One (Europe) plc is required to:
remove all interest and charges from Mrs Gs credit card account
if this means the debt would have been paid off at some point and/or Mrs G has made 
repayments she wouldnt have otherwise made, then Capital One should refund those 
payments with 8% simple interest from the date she would have paid off the debt until 
she gets the refund*
remove any adverse information relating to Mrs Gs credit card account from her credit 
file.
*If Capital One (Europe) plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman