DRN-4389755
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined to cover a procedure as 
it had a cosmetic element. 
What happened
Mr P has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. 
He contacted Aviva to ask about a claim and discussed his symptoms. Aviva said Mr P 
would need a referral and a clinical letter. It said it covered the type of procedure Mr P 
needed but also said cosmetic aspects werent covered.
When Aviva received the letter from the consultant, it told Mr P that there was a cosmetic 
aspect which wouldnt be covered. Mr P complained and referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly or 
incorrectly applied the exclusion. 
Mr P disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
Aviva told Mr P it would cover the costs of the procedure he needed and he relied on 
this information to cancel his NHS surgery which he had been on a long waiting list 
for.
He had his procedure completed recently and had to self-pay just under £7,000 
which he feels is unreasonable and unfair when he was led to believe Aviva would 
cover the full costs.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant policy exclusion says: We do not cover treatment, or any consequence 
of treatment, that is intended to change your appearance whether or not this is 
carried out for psychological or medical reasons.
When Mr P called Aviva, the adviser confirmed that it covered the type of procedure 
Mr P needed but it didnt cover procedures which were intended to change 
appearance. He said Mr P would need a letter from his consultant so that Aviva could 
ensure that the procedure was covered and the exclusion wouldnt apply.
Aviva reviewed the letter from the consultant and the claims team confirmed that it 
could only cover a septoplasty and not rhinoplasty as this would fall within the 
exclusion set out above.
Mr P went ahead with the surgery and has said that in its final response letter, Aviva 
confirmed it would cover the procedure Mr P had. I have reviewed the letter and the 
claims correspondence issued before the final letter and I am satisfied that Aviva told 
Mr P that the procedure he was having wouldnt be covered, based on the 
information provided by his consultant. Aviva has confirmed that the final response 
letter mistakenly incudes reference to rhinoplasty instead of septoplasty but the rest 
of the letter and previous correspondence confirms Aviva wouldnt cover any 
procedure which was intended to change appearance. 
I am not satisfied that Mr P relied on the final response letter to have his procedure  
I think Aviva made its position clear before the final response letter and overall, Mr P 
was told that the procedure wouldnt be covered. 
Mr P says his policy is comprehensive and covers pre-existing conditions. But the 
policy sets out the terms and conditions including exclusions and in Mr Ps case, the 
procedure he had would only be covered in certain circumstances. He didnt meet the 
criteria but I dont think that is unfair as the exclusion is clear.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I dont think Aviva has treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman