DRN-2212470
The complaint
Mr O complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc has failed to pay him an 
account switch incentive that he was entitled to.
What happened
Mr O says he transferred his account to Marks & Spencer as it was offering a switch 
incentive of a £100 gift card. But Marks & Spencer has failed to pay him that incentive. Mr O 
says he has followed Marks & Spencer guidelines and did everything that was required of 
him.
Marks & Spencer says Mr O didnt follow the account switch incentive terms and conditions 
about transferring the account with four active direct debits. It says it agreed as a gesture of 
goodwill to allow Mr O a further month to set those direct debits up, but he didnt and so it 
didnt make a mistake by not paying the incentive. Marks & Spencer says it told Mr O what 
he needed to do on a number of occasions.
Mr O brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr O hadnt complied with the switch incentive terms and conditions and 
only set up three direct debits not four. The investigator thought Marks & Spencer wasnt 
responsibility for a direct debit form not received by it if Mr O set up the fourth direct debit. 
The investigator thought the £20 compensation fair and reasonable for the incorrect 
information he was given on a telephone call.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and says he followed the instructions from Marks & Spencer 
and should receive the incentive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Marks & Spencer has dealt fairly with 
this complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I realise Mr O will be disappointed by my 
decision. I also make clear that Im not commenting on the part of the complaint and 
compensation about the incorrect information on the telephone call as Mr O hasnt asked me 
to do so and its clear his complaint his about the failure to pay the incentive.
I have looked at the switch terms and incentive and Im satisfied that they make clear that to 
be entitled to the switch incentive, that four active direct debits must be transferred to Marks 
& Spencer as part of the switch. Im also satisfied that having listened to the calls between 
the parties and having looked at Marks & Spencers records that Mr O didnt transfer those 
four direct debits. So, I dont think Marks & Spencer has made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
not paying the incentive as Mr O didnt meet those terms and conditions.
I can see that Marks & Spencer explained that to Mr O in writing and during a telephone call 
but agreed to extend the time period to set up the four direct debits. I think Marks & Spencer 
acted fairly by agreeing to that course of action and fairly explained to Mr O that it would 
monitor his account up to 20 March 2020 which would allow a month to set up those direct 
debits.
 I appreciate that Mr O says he did set up a fourth direct debit, but I cant fairly hold Marks & 
Spencer responsible for that as its not responsible for the completion of that direct debit and 
for the submission of the direct debit form to it. No doubt Mr O will raise that issue with the 
business he says he set up that direct debit with. I also think that Mr O ought to have known 
that four direct debits needed to be set up and could have monitored that himself via online 
or mobile banking or checked the position with Marks & Spencer before the deadline which it 
told him about.
Overall, Im satisfied Marks & Spencer has fairly explained its position and what Mr O 
needed to do to qualify for the incentive on a number of occasions. I find Mr O didnt meet 
that eligibility for the incentive and so I cant fairly order Marks & Spencer pay him it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman