DRN-3836852
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Fintern Ltd surrounding their rejection of 
his loan application, including that they implied that he had a gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr B applied to Fintern for a personal loan, but his application was rejected. Mr B asked why 
his application had been rejected, and Fintern explained that it was because of potential 
gambling concerns. Mr B wasnt happy about this as he hadnt made many gambling recent 
transactions and he wasnt happy that Fintern had also sent him a link to a gambling 
assistance organisation. So, he raised a complaint.
Fintern looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr Bs recent gambling history 
wasnt such that it should have been of concern to Fintern or had been the primary factor in 
why his loan application had been rejected. Fintern apologised to Mr B for this and explained 
the actual primary reasons why his application had been declined. Mr B wasnt satisfied with 
Finterns response and felt that Fintern should offer some form of apology payment for what 
had happened, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt Finterns response to Mr Bs 
complaint already represented a fair outcome to what had happened, and they didnt feel 
any form of apology of compensation payment was merited in this instance. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fintern dont dispute that the initial explanation given to Mr B as to why his loan application 
had been rejected  that it was rejected on the basis of gambling concerns  was incorrect, 
and confirm that both that explanation and the accompanying link to the gambling assistance 
organisation should never have been sent to Mr B.
Fintern have apologised to Mr B for this, and they confirmed to him that their staff member 
that had made the mistake would receive training to mitigate against similar mistakes being 
made in the future. Fintern also provided Mr B with the correct factors that had been the 
primary reasons why his application had been rejected.
Mr B doesnt feel that Finterns response here goes far enough, and feels that Fintern 
implicitly called him a gambling addict which he found to be upsetting. And because of this 
upset, Mr B feels that Fintern should make some form of apology or compensation payment 
to him.
I can appreciate how Mr B might have been upset at receiving the response from Fintern 
that he did. But Im satisfied that Finterns response to his resultant complaint  including the 
apology and the corrective information  already represents a fair outcome to what 
happened here. And I dont feel that any form of apology or compensation payment is 
merited in this instance.
In arriving at this position Ive considered the impact that Mr B being told his application had 
been declined because of potential gambling concerns may have had on Mr B. And Ive also 
considered that while Mr B may have initially been given the incorrect reasons why his 
application had been declined, it was correct that his application had been declined. And 
having considered these points, I dont feel Fintern should be instructed to do anything more
Fintern provided Mr B with the correct reasons why his application had been declined when 
responding to his complaint. And they confirmed that on reassessment they still wouldnt be 
able to offer a loan to him. Mr B wasnt happy with Finterns statement to that effect as he 
had already confirmed to Fintern that he no longer wanted a loan with them. However, I dont 
feel that it was unreasonable for Fintern to have confirmed to Mr B that the overall decision 
theyd initially made in regard to his earlier loan application was correct.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting here, but ultimately I feel that the 
apology given to him by Fintern, along with the explanation of the mistake made by their staff 
member, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened here. And 
so, I wont be instructing Fintern to do anything more beyond that apology.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Fintern to pay any form of apology or compensation payment to 
him. I hope that Mr B will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman