DRN-2839924
Complaint
Mr H complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. Hes said that he had many other debts at the time which left 
him unable to make the monthly payments to this agreement. 
Background
In June 2018, SMF provided Mr H with finance for a used car. The amount lent was 
£8,300.00 The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £6,282.00, and the total amount 
to be repaid of £14,582.00 was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £242. 
Mr H didnt keep up with the scheduled repayments. And in July 2019, after SMF had 
already recovered the vehicle, Mr H complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so 
should never have been agreed with him in the first place. SMF didnt uphold the complaint. 
It said that its checks confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to 
lend. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that SMF had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. 
SMF needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that SMF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr H before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Hs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
SMF says it agreed to this application after Mr H provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr H which did show a couple of defaulted 
accounts and some outstanding balances. But when the amount owing plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Hs living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mr H says his existing commitments 
meant that these payments were unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be 
able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr H and SMF have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
SMF carried out did go far enough. I dont think it was reasonable to rely on an estimate of 
Mr Hs living costs given there was some adverse information on his credit file, even if one of 
the defaults had been settled. 
As SMF didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think SMF is more 
likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr H. Bearing in mind, 
the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have 
expected SMF to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Hs regular living 
expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. The information Mr H has 
provided does appear to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing 
credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the 
time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that the real reason for Mr Hs inability to make his payments to this agreement 
wasnt due to his existing credit commitments or his living expenses. And that this is readily 
apparent when Mr Hs bank statements are considered. But what I need to think about here 
is what did SMF need to do in order to answer the questions its initial checks left 
unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Hs actual regular living expenses (bearing in 
his credit commitments were already validated by the credit search and theres an 
acceptance his income was correct)?  given this was a first agreement and Mr H was being 
provided with a car rather than cash. 
Bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only way for SMF to have found out 
more about Mr Hs actual living costs  it could have obtained copies of bills or other 
evidence of payment etc  I dont think that proportionate checks would have extended into 
obtaining the bank statements Mr H has now provided us with. So I dont think that SMF 
could reasonably be expected to have known about the nature and extent of Mr Hs 
additional spending. 
I know that Mr H has queried how it is possible for us not to uphold this complaint when an 
adjudicator has already upheld a separate complaint about a lower amount of funds being 
advanced a couple of months before this agreement. 
I can understand why Mr H might find it strange that hes received different outcomes on 
complaints which he perceives to be materially the same. But we consider complaints on an 
individual basis and looking at the individual circumstances. And what will constitute a 
proportionate check will very much depend on the particular circumstances of the individual 
application  a proportionate check  even for the same customer - could look different for 
different applications. 
Im not bound by the outcomes reached by adjudicators or even investigators. Ultimately, Im 
required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own conclusion. That said and with a 
view to providing some clarity and reassurance to Mr H, it might help for me to explain that 
there are two key differences between this complaint and Mr Hs other one. Firstly, whether or not it was proportionate to do so, the lender in Mr Hs other case did ask for Mr Hs bank 
statements and so that lender had this information when it decided to lend. SMF didnt have 
Mr Hs bank statements here and it wasnt required to do so either. 
Secondly, as Ive already explained, in this case Mr H was being provided with an asset 
rather than a cash loan and I think that also affects the steps a lender needs to take when 
conducting an assessment of affordability too. So while Im not required to replicate the 
outcomes reached by our adjudicators, nonetheless I dont consider that my answer here is 
incompatible or inconsistent with the one Mr H received on his other case, notwithstanding 
the differing outcomes.    
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that SMFs checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr H did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped SMF from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. So Im satisfied that SMF didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr H when it agreed to provide the funds.
Ive seen that Mr H is also unhappy at the amount SMF obtained when it sold the car and 
that it defaulted this account without notifying him in advance.
In terms of the value received for the car when it was sold, the information Ive seen 
suggests that the car was sold for slightly less than the expected price. Given the vehicle 
was sold at auction, I dont find this particularly surprising. Furthermore, as Ive not seen 
anything from Mr H that the sale price was significantly below market value, I dont think that 
SMF acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this matter.
Ive also considered the circumstances behind Mr Hs account being defaulted. Given Mr H 
was in significant arrears, I dont think it was unfair for SMF to have started the process of 
defaulting the account when it did. 
SMF hasnt been able to provide sufficient evidence to show that a correctly addressed 
default notice was sent to Mr H prior to defaulting Mr Hs account. It may be because it knew 
Mr H was no longer living at the address it had for him. And its worth noting that this is one 
of the instances where sending a default notice isnt mandatory according the Information 
Commissioners Offices Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults 
at Credit Reference Agencies. In any event, I think that Mr H would have known that he 
hadnt made a number of payments on his account, that he was in significant arrears and 
bearing in mind his previous defaults that this was a likely possibility on this account too. 
Equally, what Ive seen suggests that Mr H hadnt responded to previous contact from SMF 
in order to set up a repayment plan and he was unlikely to have been able to bring his 
account up-to-date by the required date necessary either. So I think that any failure to send 
a default notice is unlikely to have made a difference here as I consider it more likely than 
not Mr Hs account wouldnt have been brought up-to-date in time and it wouldve still 
defaulted even if he had been sent and received a default notice. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Mr H lost out as a result of any failure to send a default 
notice and I also dont think that SMF acted unfairly by defaulting the account or reporting 
this information to credit reference agencies.
Overall and having carefully considered everything Mr H has said, I dont think that SMF 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. So Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman