DRN-4183530
The complaint
Mr L complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of his claim, following an 
accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In 2017 Mr L says he was involved in an accident that wasnt his fault. Aviva determined his 
car was a total loss and offered him £1,800 in settlement. He didnt agree to this. Mr L says 
he was looking after his ill mother at this time and so made sure his car was kept secure in a 
garage until he was able to pursue his claim again. 
Mr L contacted Aviva in December 2022 to progress his claim. He says he was offered a 
lower settlement payment, and the possibility of a repair was mentioned. Mr L says this 
wasnt discussed in 2017. He sent information to Aviva showing similar cars for sale at a 
higher price than he was offered. Mr L wasnt satisfied with the inconsistent information he 
received from Aviva. In addition, he says it passed his information to a third-party without his 
consent.
Mr L contacted our service, and we forwarded his complaint to Aviva for it to consider.   
In its complaint response Aviva says the correct decision was made to treat Mr Ls car as a 
total loss. When he contacted it in 2022 it says it reconsidered its valuation, which was then 
increased to £2,200. Aviva says Mr Ls valuation dispute shouldve been addressed in May 
2017. But in October he told it not to progress the claim until he made contact again. 
Because of the delay in reconsidering the valuation in 2017, Aviva says it will pay interest on 
the settlement payment for this period at 8%. It also offered Mr L £100 compensation for its 
lack of proactive handling in 2017.
Aviva says it gave Mr Ls contact information to solicitors because of the potential injuries he 
reported. It says this was done with respect to the legal expenses cover included with his 
policy.
Mr L didnt think Avivas response was fair and asked our service to consider the matter. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He noted Aviva had paid a settlement figure of 
£2,800 in February 2023. As this was higher than the industry trade guide valuations, he 
didnt think it should pay more. He also says Aviva hadnt behaved unreasonably when it 
referred the personal injury matter to a solicitor in line with Mr Ls policy cover.
Mr L didnt agree with this outcome. The complaint has since been passed to me to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
Mr L decided not to pursue his claim in 2017. Although I can see Aviva offered him a 
settlement payment for £1,800 at this time. When he did decide to progress his claim in 
2022, he was offered an increased settlement payment for £2,200. But he didnt think was 
fair. 
I understand Mr L wants the best offer he can get following the total loss decision. But 
having read his policy terms, the policy provides the market value in the case of a total loss. 
This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and 
condition.
We dont provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer 
is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Avivas settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how he arrived at this conclusion. I can see he looked at the valuation information Aviva 
provided. It used the correct make, model, age, mileage, and date of loss in both of the 
valuations it used. The valuations were £2,290 and £2,097. 
I tried to obtain further valuations from the trade guides we use. But at the time of the loss Mr 
Ls car was too old for valuations to be provided.   
From the claim notes I can see Aviva paid Mr L £2,800 in February 2023. This is significantly 
higher than the cars market value based on the trade guides Ive seen. I understand Aviva 
agreed to value Mr Ls car in the current year, which is where the higher valuation came 
from. This isnt the approach Aviva is expected to take. The loss occurred in 2017, which is 
the date wed expect a settlement figure to be calculated from. It appears Aviva has paid a 
higher figure based on a more recent valuation as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is 
reasonable. But I wont be asking it to pay more. 
I can see Mr Ls policy includes legal protection. This is explained in his policy terms and 
conditions. It confirms assistance will be given to recover costs, including personal injury 
claims. Aviva says Mr L highlighted potential injuries when he first registered his claim in 
2017. In these circumstances I dont think it did anything wrong when providing Mr Ls 
contact details to a solicitor.
Ive thought about Mr Ls comments that he was told his car may be repairable when he 
contacted Aviva in 2022. Ive read the claim records and all correspondence provided. I cant 
find reference to this being said or discussed with Mr L. I dont dispute his recollection. But I 
have no information that shows a repair was discussed or that this was economically viable. 
Mr L raised a number of additional points he hadnt set out in his complaint to Aviva. Our 
investigator asked him to clarify if he wanted these issues forwarding to the business for it to 
respond. Mr L didnt reply. 
I cant consider complaint issues unless the business has first had the opportunity to 
respond. So, I wont be commenting further on these points in my decision. In summary, I think Aviva couldve addressed Mr Ls concern around the settlement value at 
the time this was raised in 2017. However, it was his decision not to pursue his claim until 
2022. I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in the payment it provided for £2,800, which is in 
excess of the trade guide valuations. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman