DRN-1180109
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr N took out a credit card in September 2004. At the same time as taking out his credit card 
few he was sold a PPI policy by Barclays.The policy cost 0.79p per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Ns credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance on the credit card for up to 12 months per claim if Mr N was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr N made it clear 
in his application he wanted the policy and that it provided a useful benefit.
Mr N disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr 
Ns complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr N he had a choice in taking the policy and that he 
chose to take it. I dont know what was discussed with Mr N at the time he was sold the 
policy but Ive seen a copy of his original credit card application where he was given the 
option to select to take PPI or decline it. I can see Mr N selected to take PPI on the 
application form by signing next to the words Please sign here if you require Payment 
Protection. If he didnt want PPI he couldve left the selection clear.
So I think he wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And 
I think PPI was likely applied to his account because he chose to take it  I havent 
seen anything to suggest otherwise.
I dont know if Barclays recommended Mr N take the policy so to be fair to Mr N I am going 
to treat the sale as if Barclays advised Mr N to take the policy. What this means is that 
Barclays not only had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mr N could make an informed choice about buying it. It also had to 
make sure that if it were to recommend the policy that it was suitable to his needs and 
circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr N for the following reasons: 
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr N says he was entitled to sick pay which he could use to 
make his repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
this and for potentially longer covering him for up to 12 months if he was unable to 
work or lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr N in his circumstances.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. 
And if he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mr N information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not 
he wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for 
the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr N has told us about 
his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy if hed been given 
all the proper information on the policy.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N or refund 
any interest and charges applied to his credit card that may have been incurred because of 
those premiums.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr N about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr N, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman