DRN-3251271
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
dealt with a claim under their home emergency policy.
Any references to Admiral include agents acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T contacted Admiral when they lost electrical power in their home. They 
contacted Admiral to send an engineer. The same day an electrical engineer visited and said 
a new central heating pump needed to be fitted. The next day a gas engineer visited and 
also said a new pump needed to be fitted. 
Admiral then arranged a quote for the work. This totalled £768.71, including the call out fees 
for the two engineers. As the policy had a £500 claim limit, Admiral said Mr T and Mrs T 
would need to pay £268.71. Mr T and Mrs T decided not to proceed with the work because 
they thought it would take too long to arrange.
Mr T then did some research and used a spanner to tighten the compression joint and dried 
out the terminal block with a hair dryer. He was then able to reconnect the power and the 
issue was resolved.
Mr T and Mrs T complained to Admiral as they said the engineers should have been able to 
fix the issue. They said they were also left without heating for four days at a very cold time of 
year. They also complained about the call-out charges. When Admiral replied, it said it 
hadnt identified any issues with the engineers diagnosis, as it was made safely to resolve 
the issue. It didnt think it would be safe to expect an engineer to attempt to use a hairdryer 
to dry the electrical components. As the pump wasnt working and the system couldnt be 
tested, the engineer diagnosed an issue with the pump and valve. It said if these parts had 
then not been needed, Mr T and Mrs T wouldnt have been charged for them.
When Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said Admiral had acted reasonably by sending two engineers and for 
charging the call out fees. Admiral had also offered Mr T and Mrs T alternative 
accommodation or the option to buy temporary heaters. It had also explained the safety 
concerns about trying to dry the components with a hairdryer, so she said it was reasonable 
that this wasnt attempted.
As Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 December 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Mr T and Mrs T have said Admiral should have been able to fix the issue when the 
engineers visited. My understanding is that Mr T spoke to the first engineer before he visited 
and that the engineer explained he didnt know whether he would be able to fix the issue 
until he assessed it. Mr T also talked to Admiral about whether it was better to send an 
electrical engineer or a gas engineer. Because of the issue described, Admiral decided it 
was best to send an electrical engineer. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T explained to this service what happened during the visits:
Upon his visit the Electrician traced the fault to the central heating pump which kept tripping 
the electrical circuit due to water penetration from a leaking compression joint above. The 
flow from this compression joint was very minor and could be described as an intermittent 
drip that we would not had noticed it if he hadnt pointed it out. Neither the electrician or the 
plumber, who turned up the next day, did anything to stop the leak itself or to fix the problem 
of the pump not working.
Based on what Mr T has said the leak itself was minor, but one of the engineers found the 
source of it. Ive also seen photos provided by Admiral that showed water sitting on top of 
the pump. This would also suggest that there was a leak and that the source of the water 
needed to be found and stopped. From what Ive seen, neither of the engineers Admiral sent 
stopped the leak itself.
When Mr T and Mrs T complained, Admiral told the company that had sent the engineers 
about what Mr T had done to stop the leak and fix the issue. When that company replied to 
Admiral, it didnt comment on Mr T using a spanner to stop the leak. Instead its response 
focussed on Mr T using a hairdryer to dry the components. So, I havent seen evidence that 
Admiral actually considered what was done to stop the leak. If, as seems to be the case, the 
engineer knew there was a leak and did nothing to stop it, then I dont currently think the 
engineers did what they could during their visits to deal with the issue. 
Given what Mr T did to fix the issue, this also meant the engineer seemed to wrongly identify 
what needed to be done to complete the repair. Im mindful that when the first engineer 
visited, he couldnt carry out a full range of tests and so was working on limited information. 
Mr T fixed the issue himself by drying out the component with a hairdryer. Admiral has said 
that it wouldnt have been safe for its engineers to attempt to dry the component with a hair 
dryer. I think it is reasonable for Admiral not to expect its engineers to do this. 
Mr T has also said Admiral could have fitted a new part instead. I asked Admiral about this, 
but didnt receive a reply. So, Ive thought about this in the absence of that reply. Given Mr T 
said he had to use a hair dryer to dry out the terminal block, this would suggest it was still 
wet when he worked on it. The terminal block housed electrical wiring, so even if the terminal 
block itself had been replaced, there would still have been the issue of whether the wiring 
itself was dry and therefore safe. So, Im not persuaded that even if the engineer had 
identified the terminal block as the issue that he could have fixed the issue during his visit.
However, Im still currently of the view that the engineers could have done more during their 
visits by stopping the leak itself and that by not doing so this had a negative impact on the 
issue being resolved. Based on what Ive currently seen, it seems unlikely the components 
would have dried out naturally or that any attempted repair would have been successful long 
term because the leak was still ongoing.
Mr T and Mrs T have said they were also in a cold house for four days because Admiral 
didnt deal with the issue appropriately. Ive seen evidence that Admiral offered Mr T and Mrs 
T up to £50 for heaters or to pay for alternative accommodation if their home wasnt 
habitable. I asked Mr T and Mrs T why they didnt respond to either of these offers. Mr T said 
they had oil heaters and that a Covid-19 lockdown that was in place at the time would have 
impacted being able to stay in a hotel. I cant comment on how easy it would have been to 
find a hotel, but Admiral would have paid towards some more heaters if Mr T and Mrs T had 
wanted to buy these. So, thinking about this, Admiral acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy by offering both of these options. As a result, Im not currently 
minded to say that Admiral should have done more on this particular point.
 
Mr T and Mrs T also said they were unhappy about the cost of the engineer call outs. Im not 
able to comment on Admirals business agreements or to tell it what rates can be charged. 
However, call-out charges are normally deducted from the policy limit, so I dont think it was 
unusual or unreasonable for Admiral to have done this.
So, Ive thought about what Admiral should do as a result of this complaint and, in particular, 
compensation. Mr T and Mrs T have explained this happened at a particularly cold time of 
year. Although Admiral did offer Mr T and Mrs T options so they didnt have to stay in a cold 
house, it seems only to be down to the actions of Mr T that the leak itself was stopped and 
that the drying process could then start. So, as I dont think the engineers did what they 
could have to deal with this issue, I think Admiral should pay Mr T and Mrs T £300 
compensation to recognise the impact on them. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 January 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Admiral said it thought the decision was fair and agreed to pay the compensation.
Mr T and Mrs T agreed with the decision and said they hoped it would now become final. Mr 
T and Mrs T also provided further comments, which I have summarised below:
They had taken on face value what the engineers had said about replacing the parts. 
They said sub-contractors are trying to rip off policyholders and Admiral and trying to 
boost the job to make more money. 
They explained that too much focus had been put on health and safety. Mr T had 
removed the terminal block from the pump and it was in his workshop when he dried it. 
he then safely reconnected it.
The options of an additional heater or alternative accommodation werent available to 
them as the country was in a complete lockdown at the time.
They didnt think the amount for a call-out charge was morally right and was a way for 
sub-contractors to extort money.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to uphold this complaint and 
for the reasons previously given. Ive considered the additional comments provided and I 
remain of the view that the way I said this case should be resolved is still appropriate in the 
circumstances.
  
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr T and Mrs T £300 compensation because of the impact on them due 
to how the claim was dealt with.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr T and 
Mrs T £300 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman