DRN-3970146
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with Novuna Personal Finance, who is a trading name of Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc. 
Mrs S complains Novuna Personal Finance lent to her irresponsibly.
Although Mitsubishi HC Capital UK is responsible for the actions of Novuna Personal 
Finance, for ease, I have referred to Novuna throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs S fell victim to an investment scam in early 2022. As part of the scam, Mrs S was led to 
believe she needed to pay fees and charges to withdraw funds from her investment. She 
didnt have the funds to meet these costs and so, over a space of three weeks, Mrs S and 
her husband applied to borrow £156,450 over 11 loans with several different lenders. 
In April 2022 Mrs S applied to Novuna for, and was given a loan for £10,250, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £197 a month, and in 
total Mrs S agreed to pay back about £11,818 over the five years, after interest was added. 
Mrs S says she was groomed and coached by the scammers on how to apply for the loans. 
Mrs S thinks Novuna should have checked her circumstances more thoroughly before 
agreeing to lend because with better checks, Novuna ought to have seen she could not 
afford this loan.
Novuna says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mrs S and these 
showed the borrowing was affordable. It also ran checks to verify Mrs S details including her 
name, address and bank details and these didnt lead it to believe the loan application wasn't 
made by Mrs S.
Novuna didnt uphold Mrs S complaint but in an act of forbearance given her predicament, it 
offered a repayment break whilst her banks continue to look into the matter and should 
Mrs S need more time to seek debt advice.
Unhappy with the response Mrs S got from Novuna, she brought her complaint to this 
service. Mrs S wants Novuna to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. Our Investigator 
considered the complaint. He concluded that with reasonable and proportionate checks, 
Novuna would have considered Mrs S able to sustainably afford this loan.
Mrs S disagreed with the Investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs S loan with Novuna is her fourth in the chain of loan applications and this decision is 
looking only at this one loan agreement. I am aware Mrs S (and her husband) have referred 
other cases concerning some of the other loan applications and these shall be looked at 
under separate case references.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint. Im sorry to hear of the 
devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mrs S and her family. I dont wish 
to cause them any further distress  but I must give my decision based on what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable, taking account of all evidence in the circumstances relating to this 
individual case. Ive considered Mrs S submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome from the Investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Novuna needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs S irresponsibly. 
It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what reasonable 
and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be reasonably 
expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high sum, or taking 
out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the longer term.
Novuna did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. Novuna has said Mrs S 
would not have been offered the loan if she had not passed its checking criteria. In 
summary, it explained that part of its checks involved reviewing Mrs S credit profile to 
assess her income and expenditure, and it also used information from Mrs S active credit 
file. Novuna concluded that after taking out the proposed loan, Mrs S would be left with 
£1,600 a month after her credit commitments, before living expenses.
Mrs S was borrowing a substantial amount  £10,250  over a significant term of five years. 
Mrs S was also in permanent employment on a good salary  she had declared she took 
home on average £3,225 a month when applying for the loan. Novuna used an automated 
check of her current account turnover to validate the declared income. I have some concerns 
about Novuna only relying on a credit reference agency data tool to analyse Mrs S current 
account turnover data and validate the income she had declared. I say this because her 
current account was held jointly with her husband, his salary was credited to the same 
account and Novuna could not confirm how its checks differentiated between Mrs and Mrs 
salary credits.
I asked one of our investigators to clarify with Novuna what the thresholds were for the value 
low that was returned by its check. Novuna explained it meant that Mrs S average income 
was at least 90% of the income that was declared. I have reviewed Mrs S current account 
statements and seen that her average take home pay between January and March 2022 had 
been around £2,885 a month  £340 (10.5%) less than the amount Novuna used in its 
affordability check. I can see how such a result may provide a level assurance in some 
cases but that very much depends on a borrowers expenditure and the level of disposable 
income which results  that is in effect the margin for error. 
I have also considered Mrs S expenditure and I noted that in addition to the monthly 
mortgage and other credit commitments showing on her credit file, Novuna used a national 
average for her other living expenses. Ive not seen the figure Novuna applied or that it 
asked Mrs S about her household composition  for example, whether she had dependants 
 and without such information, its difficult to say how accurately its estimate reflects her 
actual circumstances. 
Mrs S has shared more details about her households monthly non-discretionary spending, 
which totalled around £1,500  it was made up of:
Food and household shopping £300.00
Council tax £222.00
Utilities £182.00
Insurances £216.00Phone/TV/Internet £175.00
Travel (including petrol) £190.00
Childcare £200.00
Healthcare £11.00
I have looked at Mrs S bank statements and noting her account was joint with Mr S, I think 
its fair to say these were split equally between Mrs and Mr S. My cursory review allows 
sufficient confidence in the figures she has provided.
So, taking account of her share of the non-discretionary spending, her share of the joint 
mortgage and her other credit commitments, her existing average outgoings came to £2,178 
a month. And with no suggestion Mrs S intended to consolidate any of her existing credit 
commitments, this left Mrs S with £707 a month before the new loan commitment of £197, 
leaving her with £510 spare a month. And in this case, a 10% overstatement of the income 
declared would pass the validation check and still leave sufficient free income to repay the 
new loan sustainably.
Altogether, considering what it did and didnt know about Mrs S circumstances alongside the 
amount and duration of the loan shed applied for, I think had Novuna made reasonable and 
proportionate checks, it still would have been responsible to agree to lend this loan to her. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Novuna ought to have identified Mrs S application was in 
connection to the investment scam she had fallen victim to. But the evidence from the time 
does not support the application being less than genuine  for example, the funds were 
released to a bank account which Novuna had confirmed as belonging to Mrs S. Although 
Novuna did not ask the purpose of the loan, having also considered Mrs S other loan 
applications, I very much doubt she would have revealed her true intentions for the funds. 
So, I cant fairly say Novuna could have prevented Mrs S investment in the scam  afterall, 
she had already secured funds from other lenders and continued to approach more lenders 
for further funds to invest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint or make an award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman