DRN-3306488
The complaint
A company, that Ill refer to as B, has complained that AXIS Specialty Europe SE declined its 
business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr L, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with AXIS. B claimed on its policy for 
business interruption and loss of stock after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. B said it initially sought to continue providing a 
takeaway service but stopped trading from 23 March 2020. 
AXIS reviewed the claim, and asked a loss adjuster to liaise with B. They said while there 
hadnt been a confirmed case of Covid-19 members of staff had displayed symptoms and 
needed to self-isolate.
AXIS later declined the claim. It said the policy primarily covered B for business 
interruption arising from damage, which had a specific definition in the policy wording 
and didnt apply in these circumstances. While there was cover for closure due to a 
notifiable disease occurring at Bs premises, AXIS concluded that the closure of Bs 
business was due to the Government Regulations rather than because of a case of 
Covid-19 occurring at its premises. 
B complained, but AXIS maintained that the correct decision had been reached. It reiterated 
its previous comments regarding the policy definition of damage' and said that there was no 
evidence of case of Covid-19 occurring at its premises. 
Our investigator asked B what evidence it had that someone at the premises was likely to 
have sustained Covid-19. B said AXIS had never requested such evidence, and this wasnt 
the point in dispute. It interpreted that AXIS accepted its version of events. 
The investigator didnt feel they could be satisfied that B had shown, on balance, there had 
been an occurrence of a notifiable disease at Bs premises and therefore didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. B disagreed. It reiterated that AXIS hadnt requested evidence of 
an occurrence at the premises and it was onerous to ask for such evidence now when so 
much time had passed. They highlighted the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) business 
interruption insurance test case and its guidance on proving the presence of Covid-19. 
As no agreement has been reached, Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the Government restrictions imposed on B had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether AXIS 
should have met Bs claim. The burden of proof initially rests with B to demonstrate, on 
balance, it has suffered a loss its policy covers. While Ive considered Bs policy in its entirety 
Ive focused my decision on the parts that appear most relevant.  
Premises Closure or Restrictions 
This extension covers B for business interruption in consequence of:
a) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises.
Theres no dispute that Covid-19 would be considered a Notifiable Human Disease by the 
policy definition. 
B accepts that the only evidence it has been able to provide to indicate that there was an 
occurrence of a notifiable disease is its own testimony that members of staff had symptoms 
consistent with Covid-19 and therefore self-isolated. 
There was no widespread testing at the relevant time, so its important to be pragmatic when 
deciding whether there was likely to have been an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
In this case, theres no contemporaneous evidence to support Bs testimony, no real detail 
as to what symptoms its staff presented with and when, and no evidence to support those 
symptoms were more likely than not to have been caused by Covid-19. Therefore, I havent 
seen enough to conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Bs premises.
Ive thought carefully about Bs argument, which is that AXIS accepted its version of events 
but decided cover didnt apply. However, I dont think AXIS accepted that there was a case 
of Covid-19 at Bs premises. I say that because their final response letter says there isnt any 
evidence of a confirmed case of Covid-19 leading to the closure of the premises. 
In order to uphold this complaint, Id still need to be persuaded that its more likely than not 
that there was someone with Covid-19 at Bs premises. While some time has passed since 
the claim was made, Im not persuaded that its AXISs actions in declining the claim which 
have prevented B from being able to provide evidence to show there was most likely 
someone with Covid-19 at its premises. So, Im not going to require AXIS to do anything 
further. 
 
Deterioration of stock 
B also claimed for loss of the stock which became unusable while its business was closed. 
The policy lists General Stock as being covered under the Material Damage (All risks): 
Trade Contents section. While the most relevant of the risks appears to be accidental 
damage, Im not going to make a finding on whether the deterioration of stock constitutes 
accidental damage. Thats because even if I did decide it was accidental damage I still dont 
think this would provide cover for Bs deterioration of stock.   
In reaching this decision Ive taken account of TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC 
[2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm). In this case the judge considered that the deterioration of stock 
wouldnt be considered accidental as it was something that was caused by or consistent with 
inherent vice and / or gradual deterioration, both of which were excluded under the 
relevant section of the policy in question. 
Bs policy also contains an exclusion for damage to property (the definition of which includes 
stock) caused by or consisting of inherent vice or gradual deterioration. I think the deterioration of Bs stock is something that happened over time, as a result of the business 
being closed and would therefore be considered an inherent vice or gradual deterioration. As 
such, dont think the deterioration of Bs stock is covered under the policy.
B has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. However, as B 
hasnt been able to demonstrate that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its business 
premises, I dont think this impacts the outcome of its claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXIS to pay Bs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman