DRN-3755053
The complaint
Mr P complains Covea unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy and declined his claim.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr Ps Covea motor insurance renewed. In April 2021 his vehicle was stolen. 
He claimed on his policy. But Covea retrospectively cancelled his policy from October 2020. 
That meant there was no cover in place at the time of loss, so his claim was declined.
Covea says Mr P modified the vehicle after taking out the cover  converting it from a 
standard van to a camper van. It says he had an obligation to inform it of the changes but 
failed to do so. It said it if he had, it would have cancelled the policy. Therefore it has no 
liability for the loss.   
Mr P complained to Covea. He said the changes didnt qualify the van as a camper van 
according to DVLA requirements. But Covea stuck with its original decision. Mr P referred 
his complaint to this service. He wants Covea to settle the claim. 
Our investigator didnt think Covea had acted unfairly by cancelling the policy and not 
dealing with the claim. Mr P didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the policy was taken out the statement of fact declared the van had no modifications 
from the manufacturers original specification. It also explains that Mr P must notify Covea of 
any changes to the information in that statement. Mr Ps policy terms also require him to tell 
the insurer if anything changes from the details set out in the statement of fact. 
The policy document lists modifications from the manufacturers original specifications as 
something Mr P is required to notify Covea of. It says modifications includes but isnt limited 
to optional fit extras, wraps, signwriting, alloy wheels, bodywork.
Im satisfied the policy features a change in risk term and it was explained to Mr P at the 
start of the policy. Hes explained that after the policy started, an additional window was 
fitted to the van. He also had a fixed seating/sleeping area installed along with permanent 
storage facilities. 
Mr Ps said the changes shouldnt be considered as modifications from the manufacturers 
original specification. Hes referred to them not meeting DVLA criteria for changing 
registration records to a motor caravan. I accept he may be correct on this  however I still 
think its fair to describe the additional window as a modification to the bodywork. So it would 
have been reasonable for him to have informed Covea in line with the policy terms.  
According to Mr P he told his broker about the changes in a phone call before the policy 
started in June 2020. However Covea denies there was a phone call  it says instead the 
policy auto renewed. 
I cant say for certain either way. But I havent seen enough to persuade me Covea was told 
of the changes by Mr P or his broker. If he thinks the broker made a mistake he could 
consider raising a separate complaint.
Ive considered what Mr Ps said about finding it difficult to understand written 
communication. But having communicated with him verbally and in writing I think he most 
likely would have been able to understand the requirement to notify Covea of any 
modifications to his vehicle. 
Had Mr P informed Covea of the modification Im satisfied it would have cancelled his policy. 
It would most likely have asked further questions about modifications at the point Mr P told it 
about the window and then been told the full details of the changes hes made to the van. 
Having seen the relevant part of Coveas underwriting criteria Im persuaded it would have 
found the new risk the van presented to be unacceptable.  
So Covea would have made a mid-term change to the policy by cancelling it. But this service 
feels it only fair for insurers to alter the terms of a policy (including cancelling it) do that when 
the nature of the risk changes fundamentally. 
Whilst the van may not have met DVLA criteria to be classed a motor caravan it still had the 
various additional features. These seem likely to change its value and risk of theft. In 
addition, its use changed. It was insured for transport but was now regularly being used as 
accommodation. So I think its fair to say the nature of the risk changed fundamentally, 
meaning it was fair for Covea to retrospectively make the mid-term change 
I realise this will be a great disappointment to Mr P, but it means Im not going to interfere in 
Coveas decision to cancel his policy and decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman