DRN-2875517
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are complaining about how Independent Warranty trading as IWA (IWA) has 
dealt with their deposit protection insurance.  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs M ordered some replacement doors and windows. The supplier 
(which Ill refer to as F) said their deposit  more than £11,000  would be protected by 
Deposit Protection Insurance (DPI). F said the insurance was provided by IWA.
Some months later Mr and Mrs M were told that F was going out of business. Mr M says that 
up to that point  early March 2020  he and Mrs M had never seen the documents 
supporting their DPI. IWA sent them when Mr M asked for them in early March.
Mr and Mrs M were upset to discover that the policy only covered them for a deposit for up 
to 25% of their contract value  and theyd paid substantially more than this. And they say 
they also didnt know the insurance only ran for 60 days  so by the time F stopped trading 
they werent covered at all, not even in part.
DWA says the relevant literature was sent to Mr and Mrs M in October 2019, and referred to 
a letter sent to Mr and Mrs M by F at this time about this.
Our investigator didnt think the letter sent by F gave any real detail about the cover. She 
said shed seen nothing that supported DWAs suggestion that it had emailed the relevant 
literature to Mr and Mrs M, and that if theyd had this information they might have acted 
differently. She thought DWA should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 to make up for this.
DWA didnt agree, and pointed out that Mr and Mrs M knew they had the DPI, but had made 
no efforts to check it suited them. It doesnt want to pay the compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that DWA didnt make the initial sale of the DPI  that was done by F. I dont 
know if F explained the cover to Mr and Mrs M, but I cant comment on that here as this 
complaint is about what IWA did, not F.
From what Ive seen, F sent the registration document direct to DWA. And it appears DWA 
set the cover up in line with the paperwork it received, as Id expect. It says it also sent Mr 
and Mrs M a copy of the insurance cover and terms and conditions at the time.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt get this information until after theyd been told F had gone out 
of business, and asked IWA for copies. They say they didnt know the cover was insufficient 
both amount and time wise. 
I agree with that. I think that if Mr and Mrs M had received the policy documents, it would 
have been clear their deposit wasnt covered in full  nor for long enough to cover them until 
their doors/windows were due to be fitted. 
DWA says it sent the documents  but despite being told by our investigator she hadnt seen 
any evidence supporting this statement, DWA hasnt sent anything else to us. So I can only 
conclude it doesnt have this evidence  or isnt willing to share it.
DWA also said that as Mr and Mrs M knew they had insurance they should have checked to 
see if it suited them. I dont see how Mr and Mrs M could have done that without the relevant 
documentation. I dont think its reasonable to expect them to search IWAs website for 
details of the policy just in case it didnt suit them. 
Putting things right
I think DWA has made mistakes here  so I need to think about the compensation DWA 
pays. I think the compensation suggested by our investigator is appropriate. I cant say DWA 
should return Mr and Mrs Ms deposit because  as I said above  it did set up the insurance 
in line with the instructions it received.
DWA should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 for the inconvenience its caused them.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Independent Warranty trading as IWA 
to pay Mr and Mrs M £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman