DRN-2521147
The complaint
 Mr A complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to close his account and 
the delays caused when releasing his funds. Mr A would like compensation 
What happened
 In December 2019 Mr A received a message from Nat West to advise him theyd be closing 
his account.
Mr A then received a letter with an enclosed form which he was asked to fill out in order to 
release his money. Mr A says he handed the form into his local branch and Nat West 
confirmed they received the form on 16 January 2020.
Nat Wests policy states the release of money can take between 28-60 days. However, Mr A 
says he was misadvised about when he would receive his funds and spent hours on the 
telephone trying to find out, only for Nat West staff to be rude to him.
Mr As money was released at the end of March 2020 and Mr A received it on 1 April 2020.
Mr A complained to Nat West, but they didnt uphold his complaint. So, he brought the 
complaint to our service.
The investigator who reviewed things thought Nat West were entitled to close Mr As 
account. But she recognised they caused some delays. So, she asked them to pay Mr A 
£150 compensation. 
Mr A didnt agree  he said not being able to access his funds had an effect on him mentally 
and physically as he didnt have basic necessities. He said he was told conflicting 
information and Nat West held on to his money for no reason. Mr A asked for compensation 
in the region of £500. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed 
to me to review.
I got in touch with Nat West and Mr A in an attempt to resolve things informally. 
I told Nat West that due to the delays caused  around three months in total  I thought £250 
compensation would be more appropriate. Nat West agreed. However, Mr A didnt. 
Mr A said the delays in Nat West releasing his money caused him severe distress. Mr A 
explained hed lost his job due to Covid-19 and had to borrow money from friends after 
begging Nat West for his own money. He said he had to use food banks and was in the 
process of buying a house which fell through because of the time taken. Mr A asked for 
compensation of around £350.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Ive explained my reasons below.
Account closure 
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr A to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position because he didnt have 
access to his funds  especially because of the external factors caused by Covid-19. But a 
bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
Ive considered Nat Wests actions when reviewing and subsequently closing Mr As 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
with their obligations. Nat West, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied Nat West were acting in line with these obligations when deciding to close 
Mr As account. 
Delays & Customer service
Ive carefully considered Nat Wests actions while carrying out their review and releasing 
Mr As money once theyd decided to close his account. While Im satisfied Nat Wests 
review and decision to close were acceptable based on the circumstances and evidence 
theyve provided me with, I do think they caused unnecessary delays.
I consider there was a delay of around one month while carrying out their review  and a 
delay of around two months when releasing the money. I appreciate Nat West have policies 
and processes in place  but I dont consider they followed them appropriately which put 
Mr A in a difficult position. Ive also noted that Mr A was sometimes told conflicting 
information about when he would receive his money. Therefore, I think Nat West should pay 
Mr A £250 compensation to recognise the delays and for the customer service Mr A 
received.
The impact on Mr A
I recognise from Mr As comments this situation had a big impact on him. He couldnt access 
his money at the same time that hed lost his job  and a house purchase. I dont doubt how 
difficult this overall situation must have been for him. I havent seen any evidence of Mr A 
losing his job or the house purchase  but even so, I cant fairly hold Nat West responsible 
for these things. I say that because Nat West were entitled to review and close Mr As 
accounts  and they have a duty to review the money in the account before releasing it to 
Mr A. I recognise they caused delays, but I dont consider the delays were the reason Mr A 
lost his job or his house purchase and I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
otherwise. Ive also thought about Mr A having to borrow money from friends  and going to 
a food bank. Im really sorry to hear Mr A found himself in this position. But I think the 
compensation Ive asked Nat West to pay fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr A.  
Putting things right
 Overall, I appreciate how strongly Mr A feels about things. And Im sorry I cant uphold his 
complaint in the way hed like me to. But having considered the full circumstances of whats 
happened, and the reasons Nat West have closed Mr As account, Im satisfied they acted 
fairly. I do, however recognise the delays caused by Nat West had an impact on Mr A and I 
think £250 compensation is a fair amount to put things right. 
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay 
Mr A £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman