DRN-1936192
 
The complaint
Mr E says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy when he took out a credit card in October 2001.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in October 2001. Mr E says he 
wasnt told the policy was optional; he didnt ask for the policy, it was added to his account 
without his knowledge; and he says Tesco didnt ask about his medical history.
The policy cost 70p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful 
claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve 
months. The policy covered Mr E in the event he wasnt working due to accident sickness or 
unemployment. The policy was cancelled in March 2009.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He said that Mr E had a pre-existing medical condition 
which wouldve been excluded under the terms of the policy; so he wouldnt have been able 
to claim on the policy if he was ill because of this condition.
Tesco says it hasnt seen any evidence to suggest that Mr E had the medical condition 
before he purchased the PPI. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020. In this I explained that I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
I think Tesco made Mr E aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember nearly 20 years later. I say this 
because Ive seen a copy of the application form, and can see that he selected PPI before 
signing the application form in 2001. And Ive noted that he chose not to take advantage of 
other optional features on the application form.
And as the PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements, then had the PPI 
been added to his account without either his knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected 
him to query or challenge this in the first few months after the account was opened in 2001.
So, taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied the PPI was optional and that Mr E 
chose to purchase it.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E  he chose to buy it himself on a postal application 
form  so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. Mr E needed to make that decision 
himself.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mr E chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. Mr Es representative told us about Mr Es medical condition, so we asked for more 
information about it. Mr Es medical report confirms he has this condition, the details of which are known to all parties. But it states that the first instance the condition it noted on his 
records is in 2002; after the purchase of the PPI.
So, taking this into consideration, Im currently satisfied that Mr E was not affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations which might have made the policy unattractive to him  he told 
us he was employed and his health condition is recorded after the sale of the policy  so he 
wouldnt have been affected by any terms relating to existing health conditions or unusual 
working practices.
It seems that the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr E if he wasnt working because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment  this policy wouldve paid out in addition to his limited 
employer benefits; just three months sic pay. And it would also have allowed him to use any 
savings he may have had for other more pressing matters at what would be a stressful time.
The policy was also competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr E 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I 
think he would still have taken out the policy. And as it was a regular premium policy, had 
Mr E decided he no longer wanted it, or could no longer afford it, then he couldve cancelled 
it at any time without penalty. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Es comments, but at the moment, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020 and I invited both parties to let me have any 
further information they wanted me to see before I issued my final decision. And as neither 
party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman