DRN-2436529
The complaint
Mr A says Fairmead Insurance Limited didnt provide him with clear information about a legal 
expenses and rent guarantee policy which he added to his existing landlords insurance in 
March 2016. 
What happened
Mr A has had landlords insurance with Fairmead for a property he rents out for a number of 
years. In March 2016 he contacted Fairmead and added legal expenses and rent guarantee 
cover to his existing policy. 
Mr As tenants stopped paying their rent in May 2016 and Mr A took action against them. He 
made a claim on the building damage element of his policy the following year. Fairmead 
turned that down because it thought the damage was wear and tear which wasnt covered by 
his policy. That issue has already been brought to our service. An ombudsman concluded in
April 2018 we couldnt consider it because it had been referred to us more than six months 
after Fairmead sent Mr A its final response.
Mr A made a separate claim under the legal expenses section of his policy. Again thats 
been considered separately by us. An ombudsman issued a final decision in August 2018 
and was satisfied the insured event occurred within 90 days of the insurance starting and the 
policy doesnt claims where thats the case. He also thought costs had been incurred without 
Fairmeads authorisation.
Mr A said the 90 day exclusion period hadnt been brought to his attention when he took out 
the legal expenses and rent guarantee policy. Fairmead accepted that when Mr A called to 
extend his cover it hadnt explained that to him. But it said this was referenced in the policy 
booklet so it thought Mr A had enough information to decide if the policy was right for him.
Ive already shared my initial thoughts with both parties. In summary I said:
Mr As concerns about the building damage and legal expenses claim had been 
previously considered by us. An ombudsman concluded the building damage claim had 
been brought too late. Another ombudsman issued a final decision on the legal expenses 
claim. And so the only issue I was considering was about what happened when Mr A 
called Fairmead to add legal expenses and rent protection cover to his existing policy.
Fairmead accepted it didnt provide Mr A with information about the 90 day exclusion 
when he called and took out the policy. And I wasnt persuaded the policy document 
would have drawn this to his attention either as it wasnt included until page 43 (of 52). 
But I didnt think that Mr A would have acted differently even if hed been provided with 
clearer information about the exclusion period. Hed contacted L&G to add legal 
expenses and rent protection to his policy. So I thought that was something he was, in 
principle, interested in taking out. And he didnt know in March 2016 his tenants would 
stop paying their rent. So I didnt think this exclusion would have been of particular 
concern to Mr A. 
Even if it was exclusions like this are common to policies of this nature. And while its 
possible another policy might have had a shorter exclusion period, I didnt think it likely 
Mr A would have been able to find a policy that covered him for the claim he 
subsequently made at a price hed have been prepared to pay. I thought it most likely 
that even if told about the exclusion hed still have taken this policy out. I didnt think Mr A 
had lost out as a result of what Fairmead got wrong. 
Mr A responded and said, in summary:
He thought the service provided by Fairmead when dealing with his claims had been 
poor and this meant hed lost out on the opportunity to pursue his buildings insurance 
claim. He said I should review the previous decisions wed reached on this.
He only received a policy booklet when he originally took out his policy. Fairmead didnt 
explain the terms to him when he took out the legal expenses and rent guarantee policy 
in April 2016. And he didnt know what would happen in future when he did so. Mr A 
provided details of the financial losses hed incurred and said he should be compensated 
for these.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A remains unhappy with the outcome of both claims he made on this policy. 
But those issues have been looked at separately by our service and decisions have been 
issued by other ombudsmen. And a decision by an ombudsman brings our complaint 
handling process to an end. What Im considering in this decision is solely about what 
happened when Mr A took out the legal expenses and rent guarantee policy in 2016. 
In relation to that I agree with Mr A that Fairmead got something wrong here. Its accepted it 
didnt explain the 90 day exclusion period to him when he contacted it. And for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think the policy booklet would have been sufficient on its own to draw 
this to his attention. I also appreciate Mr A says he was only sent a copy of the booklet when 
he originally took out his landlord policy. 
But where I identify a business has got something wrong, I also need to consider whether a 
complainant has lost out as a result of that. If I thought that, but for the error by Fairmead, Mr 
A would have had cover for the claim he subsequently made Id likely recommend it take 
action to put things right. However, in this case I dont think Mr A would have acted differently even if Fairmead had 
made this exclusion clear to him. He appears to accept he wasnt aware of any issue with his 
tenants when he took the policy out. So I dont think this exclusion would have been of 
particular concern to him. Even if it was, I havent seen evidence to show hed have been 
able to find an alternative policy that would have covered him for the claim he subsequently 
made at a price hed have been prepared to pay. 
So I dont think theres anything Fairmead need to do to put things right in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman