DRN-1194217
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about how Lloyds Bank PLC acted when it was asked for advice with 
a possible scam on their accounts, then when it was notified that there had been a scam 
affecting the accounts and asked to help.
What happened
This complaint is one of three, brought by Mr and Mrs S dealing with their individual and joint 
accounts. Although I will produce three decisions on these complaints, the responses are not 
substantively different. This decision deals with the couple's joint complaint.
On 22 May 2019 a call was made to the home of Mr and Mrs S, from someone claiming to 
be a television services provider. Some information about Lloyds accounts was disclosed 
during that conversation. 
Mr S twice contacted Lloyds after this call, on behalf of himself and Mrs S. He told Lloyds 
that information about accounts had been disclosed on a call, which he now understood 
wasn't genuine. Mr S was told by Lloyds there was very little that a fraudster could do with 
these details. He said either Lloyds call handler should have transferred him to the fraud 
team, or should have told him about the different types of fraud that Lloyds is aware of that 
follow this pattern. That would have meant the couple were less likely to fall victim to it. 
Lloyds accepts this.
Another call was made to Mr and Mrs S later that day, and the couple were persuaded to 
move their money. This was a scam. Fortunately, none of the money was ultimately lost, but 
it was not immediately clear that this would be the case. This was an extremely stressful 
time for Mr and Mrs S.
Both Mr and Mrs S then experienced repeated problems with internet banking, and although 
they asked Lloyds what was wrong, it didnt link this up to the previous fraud problems 
straight away. These accounts are being monitored because of that fraud, and Lloyds said 
that it was sorry it hadnt told them this right away. 
Lloyds accepts that it has made mistakes, and missed opportunities to prevent fraud. It also 
accepts that it failed to support Mr and Mrs S appropriately when it was alerted to the fraud. 
It has moved money back to the original accounts.
Lloyds has paid Mr and Mrs S £500 each to say sorry for what went wrong. 
Our investigator agreed that the service Lloyds gave shouldve been better, but he said that 
he thought total compensation of £1,000 between them was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S replied on behalf of them both. He felt the service shouldve been much better. Mr S 
thought that Lloyds payments should be £1,000 each. He said that he and Mrs S werent 
even supported after the event.Because Mr and Mrs S didn't agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Lloyds has let Mr and Mrs S down. Like our investigator, I think that this is 
particularly true of the calls that were made before any money was moved. I think that Lloyds 
missed an opportunity to help its customers avoid being scammed. 
I also think that Lloyds shouldve provided better support after the scam. It didn't deal 
sympathetically with the issue or offer the practical help I would expect. I think this caused 
additional stress to Mr and Mrs S, at what was already an extremely difficult time. 
I can see that Lloyds accepts its failings in this case. Its said sorry, and it has paid Mr and 
Mrs S £500 each. Mr and Mrs S say thats not enough. 
I think this was an awful experience for Mr and Mrs S, and Lloyds missed opportunities to 
either avoid it altogether, or to lessen the stress they were experiencing. They were 
concerned a large amount of money might be lost forever. Fortunately, it was all returned. 
I dont wish to downplay the unpleasantness of this. But I do think that what Lloyds has paid 
Mr and Mrs S is the right amount to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to their 
complaint. They might like to know that they have each received an amount that our service 
would consider a substantial award. 
I think that what Lloyds has paid is in line with what I wouldve awarded, if these payments 
hadnt already been made. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, but because I think Lloyds has already done 
enough to say sorry for what went wrong, I dont think it has to do any more. And that means 
I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman