DRN-4310320
The complaint
Miss O says that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, increased her overdraft and
charged her excessive amounts for it when she was not financially stable.
What happened
Miss O complained to Halifax that it should not have increased her overdraft in July 2018
and about all charges applied to her overdraft since the account was opened in 2015. Halifax
said there had been no bank error in the decision to increase Miss Os overdraft or in the
way charges had been applied. It refunded £100 worth of overdraft charges as a gesture of
goodwill.
Dissatisfied with this response Miss O referred her complaint to our service. At this stage
Halifax only consented to us looking at events that had occurred since 23 July 2016 based
on one of the rules (DISP 2.8.2) set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Miss O
accepted this.
She told us she was a heavy gambler, regular payday loan user and regular credit card user.
All of this was evident to Halifax on her bank statements and so it was irresponsible. She
was in cycle of debt.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Os complaint. She said Miss O only used her overdraft
for 18 days in 2017 and this did not show it was not sustainably affordable for Miss O.
Unhappy with this assessment Miss O asked for an ombudsmans review. She said Halifax
had increased her overdraft in the last two weeks of July 2018 from £150 to £1,250 and all
that time she was maxing it out by gambling.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to submit any 
comments by 17 August 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
Halifax says it agreed to Miss Os overdraft increases in July 2018 after it obtained
information on her income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. Miss O says it
was clear from her account history that she was gambling frequently and using pay day
loans so the overdraft would most likely not be sustainably affordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss O and Halifax have said. I have to start by saying that
Halifax did have some information, at least about Miss Os income because of her salary
being paid into his account, when deciding whether to lend more to her.
And its fair to say that Miss O did have a salary which might, in normal circumstances, be
enough to suggest that she could afford to repay the overdraft limit increases she was given.
However, Im mindful of the particular circumstances here and I am not persuaded Halifax
adequately considered if Miss O could repay any additional credit sustainably  so without
suffering any kind of financial harm - rather than just the pounds and pence affordability.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted
unfairly when it increased Miss Os overdraft to £500 on 15 July 2018. I say this as it was
clear that Miss Os most likely use of her overdraft, based on both her pattern of spend when
her account was in credit and the historic use of her overdraft would be to gamble or repay
payday loans. And so there was clearly a high risk of the funds going towards unsustainable
sources. Indeed the day after this first increase in July 2018 Miss O went on to use the
money in this way.
And the information Ive seen suggests that Miss O went on to develop a reliance on
payday loans and other high-cost credit within three months of her limit increases in July
2018. So Halifax should have realised that Miss O was struggling to manage her overdraft
and offered her assistance. Miss O ended up paying additional interest as a result of Halifax
increasing her overdraft limit and then continuing to allow her to use it even though it was
unsustainable.
I then set out what Halifax would need to do to put things right.
Neither party sent in any comments or new information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Halifax will also be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and
reasonably when applying overdraft charges.
As neither party sent in any new evidence I have no reason to change the findings or 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I find that Halifax should not have provided any increases to Miss Os overdraft 
facility from 15 July 2018 onwards. As Miss O lost out because of what Halifax did wrong it 
should put things right.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Miss Os complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Os current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied after the increase on 15 July 2018 are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Miss O to arrange a suitable repayment plan,  
Miss O is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Halifax to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Miss Os credit file, Halifax should reflect what would have been recorded had it not 
increased the limit in July 2018. Halifax can also reduce Miss Os overdraft limit by 
the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Miss O over her limit.
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss O along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should remove 
any adverse information from Miss Os credit file. Halifax can also reduce Miss Os 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Miss O
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Os complaint in part. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman