DRN-4001263
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the handling of a claim under her personal accident policy.
What happened
Ms H held a personal accident policy with American International Group UK Limited (AIG). 
The policy was a monthly rolling contract with an annual communication date of March each 
year. That meant, each March, AIG would write to Ms H with a copy of the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) relevant to her policy. The IPID includes important and 
relevant information about the policy benefits and limitations.
In February 2021, Ms H had an accident and suffered an injury to her ribs and sternum. A 
few months later, in July 2021, she contacted AIG to ask if shed be able to make a claim 
under the policys disability benefit as she was still suffering with her injuries.
AIG told Ms H her situation didnt immediately fall within the terms of the disability benefit, 
but it had recently introduced a fracture benefit, in June 2021, so Ms H made a claim. The 
claim was accepted.
In September 2021, Ms H got in touch with AIG and asked for a copy of her policy terms. 
Unfortunately, the documents sent to her were incorrect. AIG apologised for the confusion 
and sent Ms H the correct policy terms. However, Ms H noted the information she received 
did not include the new fracture benefit. She raised her concerns with AIG who explained 
that her policy terms wouldnt include the fracture benefit until her annual communication 
date, the following March. It did however, pay Ms H £100.00 for the confusion caused.
In early 2022, Ms H received her updated policy documents. The documents included 
fracture cover, but Ms H also noticed an additional benefit  a virtual medical service - had 
been added. She said shed been struggling following her accident and in October 2021, had 
developed problems with her foot. She was subsequently diagnosed with tendonitis, and it 
had been suggested to her, this may have been related to poor posture following her 
accident. She said shed struggled to get an appointment with her GP, who she says didnt 
offer virtual appointments, and shed found it difficult to travel on public transport, given the 
on-going problems following her accident. 
Ms H believes the failure of AIG to tell her about the fracture benefit and virtual medical 
service has caused her detriment. She says had she known about the fracture benefit 
earlier, she could have claimed sooner and used the funds to pay for private treatment. And 
as a result, she may not have developed the problem with her foot. She says if shed known 
about the virtual medical service, shed have avoided the problems getting access to 
treatment via her GP.
AIG disagrees. It says Ms H wasnt entitled to claim for her fractured ribs and sternum 
because her accident happened before the introduction of the additional benefit. It said her 
claim should have been assessed against the benefits available at the time of her injury.
It went on to say it doesnt agree Ms H was disadvantaged by not knowing about the virtual 
medical service introduced in November 2021, because the service wasnt available to her 
when she first contacted her GP about the problems with her foot. It also says the virtual 
service available to her was identical to the service shed received from her GP.
It recognised the confusion caused by sending her the incorrect policy documents but as it 
paid Ms H compensation for that mistake, it believes its done enough.
An investigator here considered Ms Hs concerns and ultimately decided not to uphold her 
complaint. He was concerned about AIGs arrangements for updating policyholders about 
new benefits, but he didnt think Ms H had suffered detriment as a result. And he thought the 
compensation paid to her was sufficient to recognise AIGs mistake.
Ms H remains unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the terms of the policy Ms H holds, and the obligations placed on AIG 
by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Ms Hs complaint is three-fold - that had she been aware of the fracture benefit earlier, she 
would have been able to seek treatment for her fractured ribs and sternum sooner than she 
did. And as a result, she may not have developed problems with her foot. And finally, that 
AIGs failure to notify her of the virtual medical service in November 2021, meant she 
struggled to access medical care for her foot due to difficulties in seeing her GP.
Having considered the evidence before me - 
Im satisfied Ms H wasnt entitled to claim fracture benefit at the time of her accident 
in February 2021. From the evidence Ive seen the fracture benefit was introduced in 
June 2021 and she was made aware of it soon after. AIG accepted the claim, even if 
it now says Ms H wasnt entitled to the benefit, so Im satisfied Ms H hasnt lost out 
as a result. And I cannot therefore say Ms Hs problems with her foot were a direct 
consequence of any failing on AIGs part. 
I appreciate Ms H would have liked to know about the virtual medical service sooner 
than she did. But again, Ive not seen persuasive evidence that not being told about 
this service until her communication date in March 2022 caused her detriment. Ms H 
has said she developed foot pain in October 2021 and approached her GP, which 
was before the virtual medical service was introduced. I appreciate Ms H thinks the 
service may have been introduced in June 2021  at the same time as the fracture 
benefit  but the evidence Ive seen doesnt support that.
Im satisfied the compensation paid to Ms H by AIG, for failing to provide her with the 
correct policy documents in September 2021, sufficiently recognises the impact on 
her.
I appreciate Ms H is unhappy that AIG introduced new benefits but didnt immediately update 
her. I understand her concerns, not least because the terms of the policy Ms H holds with 
AIG say:
If we need to make a change to this policyWe might sometimes make changes to your policy and the amount the policyholder 
pays. Well always give the policyholder at least 30 days notice before making any 
changes to your policy, by writing to them at their last known address. If theyre not 
happy with any changes we make, they can cancel the policy.
Its clear from the evidence provided to me that Ms H wasnt notified about the additional 
benefits in line with this policy term. I understand why shes unhappy about that. But having 
considered the impact of that on the specific circumstances of this complaint, I cannot say 
she suffered detriment as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking American 
International Group UK Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman