DRN-2673446
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim 
following an accident and cancelled his motor insurance policy because it said he had 
breached the policy conditions. Hes also unhappy about its decision to settle the other 
drivers claim. He wants it to remove the cancellation marker and records of the accident. 
What happened
Mr Ms friend asked to borrow his car. Mr M said he checked that the friend was insured 
under his own policy. The friend then had an accident and Mr M found this wasnt true. 
Watford wouldnt cover the claim as the friend wasnt named on the policy. It also cancelled 
the policy as it said Mr M had breached policy conditions. Watford settled the other drivers 
claim for personal injuries and repairs, and it wants to recover this outlay from Mr M.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it 
wasnt unreasonable for Watford to decline the claim under the policy terms and conditions 
because Mr Ms friend wasnt named on the policy. She thought Watford had to deal with the 
other drivers claim under the Road Traffic Act (RTA). And, because it had made an outlay, 
she thought it reasonable for Watford to record a claim against Mr M. And she thought it was 
reasonable for Watford to try and recover its costs from Mr M, but as his friend was prepared 
to pay those costs it should liaise with him too. 
But she thought Mr M had tried to ensure he didnt breach the policy terms by checking that 
his friend was insured under his own policy to drive his car. So she thought it was unfair for 
Watford to cancel the policy. 
She thought Watford should reimburse Mr Ms premiums for the remaining cover and any 
cancellation fees, with interest. She thought the claim should be recorded on Mr Ms policy 
but should show that the friend was driving. She thought Watford should come to an 
agreement with Mr M and his friend to repay its costs. And she thought Watford should 
provide Mr M with a letter saying that the policy was cancelled incorrectly so that his current 
policy could be rerated. 
Mr M replied that he accepted the investigators view. Watford replied that it didnt think Mr M 
had done enough to ensure his friend had cover to drive his car. It said he could have been 
added to the policy as a named driver. It also thought Mr M could have checked his friends 
Certificate of Insurance. It said it had recorded that the friend was driving at the time of the 
accident. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Watford on 16 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
I could see that Mr M had accepted that his friend wasnt covered to drive on his policy. I 
thought this was correct as the policy excludes anyone not listed on the Certificate of 
Insurance. So I thought it was fair and reasonable for Watford to decline the claim. And I 
thought that as Watford has a duty to record accurate information, the claim should be 
recorded on Mr Ms policy and on the claims and underwriting exchange (CUE) with his 
friend as the driver. Watford told us that it had already done this. 
Watford incurred costs because of its legal duties under the RTA. But I didnt think it was fair 
and reasonable for it to reclaim these from Mr M. 
Mr M described what had happened. Mr M was abroad when his friend asked to borrow his 
car. Mr M later recalled that he told his friend to buy insurance. The friend said he had 
insurance for driving other cars and showed this to Mr M. Mr M said he checked this as best 
he could and told the friend to check that this was OK with his insurer. 
His friend said he phoned and was told he had cover, but he had in fact lied as he thought 
his fully comprehensive policy would cover him. Mr M said his friend took the car without his 
permission, because he was uninsured. Mr M said hed reported the matter to the police, but 
no action was taken.
So I thought Mr M tried to ensure that his friend wasnt driving whilst uninsured. I didnt think 
it was reasonable for Watford to expect Mr M to check that his friend had driving other cars 
cover. I thought Mr M made it clear to his friend that he could borrow the car as long as he 
was insured to drive it. 
I thought Mr M did enough to ensure that his friend was wasnt driving uninsured. So I 
thought Watford needed to seek to recover its costs from Mr Ms friend. The friend had told 
Mr M that he would deal with the financial issues this matter left Mr M with. And I thought it 
was for Watford to arrange with the friend how to repay its costs. 
That left two issues in dispute, the cancellation of the policy and Watfords decision to settle 
the other drivers claims. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Watford said it was entitled to cancel the policy as Mr M had breached the policy terms. I 
could see that this was set out in the policy under General Conditions. It said it had 
retained the premiums as there had been an incident that had led to a claim. So I considered 
whether this was fair and reasonable in Mr Ms particular circumstances. 
As Ive explained above, I thought Mr M made reasonable attempts to check that his friend 
was insured to drive his car. I thought hed been consistent that he checked his friends 
insurance cover verbally and on his phone. Hed asked for confirmation that the friend had 
checked this with his own insurer. And I thought the friend had confirmed what Mr M has told 
us. So I thought Mr M hadnt tried to mislead Watford and had been very open about what 
had happened.
Mr M explained that he thought fully comprehensive cover would allow his friend to drive his 
car. From the calls I listened to, Mr M clearly didnt understand the need for a driving other 
cars extension. 
So I thought Mr M made a reasonable attempt to ensure that he didnt breach the policy 
terms. I thought hed tried to ensure that his friend was insured to drive his car. And so I 
didnt think it was fair or reasonable in Mr Ms particular circumstances for Watford to apply 
the policy terms and cancel the policy and charge him a cancellation fee. 
Watford retained Mr Ms premiums so when he took out a new policy I thought he was 
paying twice for his cover. I didnt think this was fair or reasonable as I thought the cancellation was unfair. So I thought Watford should reimburse Mr M for the cost of his new 
policy whilst the Watford policy should have been running, with interest.
Mr M was unhappy that Watford settled the other drivers claims after his friend ran into the 
back of her car. Mr M said the two cars made slight contact and no damage was caused. 
Watford asked to speak to the friend to get his account as Mr M wasnt present at the time. 
He confirmed that hed made contact with the rear bumper of the other car. So I thought 
Watford reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before 
accepting liability on Mr Ms behalf. 
So I then considered whether Watfords outlay for the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Watford obtained a medical report for the other drivers personal injuries. I thought the 
amount claimed for was modest and I thought it was reasonable for Watford to rely on the 
expert report. This said that the claimed for injuries were in keeping with the accident 
circumstances. So I couldnt say that it was unfair or unreasonable for Watford to seek to 
recover this part of its outlay. 
We asked Watford to tell us what it paid for the other drivers repairs. But it hadnt provided 
us with a response to this request. So I couldnt say whether or not these costs were 
reasonable. In that case, I couldnt say that it was fair and reasonable for Watford to seek to 
recover this part of its outlay from Mr Ms friend. I said that if it was able to provide a detailed 
breakdown of the repair costs it paid, I could then consider this further. 
Subject to any further representations Mr M or Watford, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited to do the following:
1. Remove the cancellation from Mr Ms record and any databases where its recorded.
2. Make an agreement with Mr Ms friend to pay back its substantiated outlay under the 
claim. 
3. If the claim is repaid in full, CUE should be updated, the claim changed to for notification 
only and the No Claims Discount (NCD) allowed.
4. Reimburse Mr M the costs of the premiums for his new policy for the period when the 
Watford policy was meant to be running and the two policies over-lapped, and any 
cancellation fee. It should add interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
5. Provide Mr M with a letter he can show to his new insurer saying that the policy was 
cancelled incorrectly and asking for his premium to be recalculated.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Watford to take off tax from this interest. Watford must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M replied that he didnt think any damage had been caused to the cars in the collision. He 
thought this meant that the other driver hadnt been injured. He said the cancellation had led 
to premium increases for his three cars.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. But the other drivers representatives havent provided 
an engineers report on damage to her car. So I think Watford wasnt able to carry out a 
consistency check between the cars. It did, however, receive expert medical evidence of personal injuries which, as Ive explained above, was consistent with the accident 
circumstances. So I cant say it was unreasonable for Watford to settle this claim. 
I cant hold Watford responsible for the premiums charged by other insurers. So I cant say 
that Watford needs to reimburse Mr M for the increases hes had to pay. But I think he can 
ask his insurer to rerate his policies with the letter from Watford to show that the policy was 
cancelled incorrectly.  
Watford replied that it was still waiting for the outlay for the car damage claim for the other 
driver. It told us that the claim was being handled by an accident management company. 
Watford said
we cannot close the files until we have all outlay or confirmation that there is no outlay to 
recover from all claimants reps
It said it spoke to the claimants representatives and it,
confirmed, they do have the file, they only had reservation no hire or repairs were done -
no notes to say why. so we can close file.
Watford said the picture wasnt entirely complete. But I think it has been told by the other 
drivers representatives that there was no outlay for hire or repair, and it could close the file. 
The accident occurred in November 2019, 16 months ago. Whilst I think there can often be a 
delay in claims for personal injury to be finalised, Watford has already settled this. I think, on 
balance, Watford doesnt have evidence that its likely there will be a claim for hire or repair. 
So as it hasnt substantiated any outlay for the repair costs, I cant say that its fair and 
reasonable for Watford to seek to recover this from Mr Ms friend.
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following:
1. Remove the cancellation from Mr Ms record and any databases where its recorded.
2. Make an agreement with Mr Ms friend to pay back its substantiated outlay under the 
claim. 
3. If the claim is repaid in full, CUE should be updated, the claim changed to for notification 
only and the No Claims Discount (NCD) allowed.
4. Reimburse Mr M the costs of the premiums for his new policy for the period when the 
Watford policy was meant to be running and the two policies over-lapped, and any 
cancellation fee. It should add interest to this amount at 8% simple per annum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
5. Provide Mr M with a letter he can show to his new insurer saying that the policy was 
cancelled incorrectly and asking for his premium to be recalculated.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Watford to take off tax from this interest. Watford must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman