The complaint  
Mr P is unhappy with the way in which Unum Ltd handled a claim made under a group  
income protection insurance policy which he had the benefit of.  
What happened  
In July 2017, Mr P was signed off work by his GP with depression. He had the benefit of a  
group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer  also the policyholder - 
which can pay out a portion of his income after hed been off work for 26 weeks (the  
deferred period).  
A claim was made to U num under the policy shortly before the expiry of the deferred period  
which was considered by Unum.  
Unum declined the claim in January 2018. It concluded that Mr Ps mental health had been  
affected by workplace issues, but, in its opinion, his functionali ty hadnt been impaired. It  
also said that workplace issues had caused his absence (as opposed to his medical  
condition) and that he wasnt incapacitated throughout the entirety of the deferred period.  
Mr P didnt think that was fair, so he appealed that d ecision. His psychiatric consultant  
(consultant A) produced a report dated April 2018 in support of that appeal.  
In May 2018, Unum confirmed that Mr Ps appeal had been unsuccessful.  
At the start of August 2018, Mr P raised a complaint about the way Unum had handled the  
claim and it being unfairly declined. And a further report from consultant A was provided to  
Unum.  
Unum requested updated medical records from Mr Ps GP and in light of the updated  
medical evidence it asked Mr P to attend an appointme nt with an independent medical  
expert who was also a psychiatric consultant (consultant B).  
Consultant B met with Mr P and produced his medical report in October 2018. In consultant  
Bs opinion Mr P wasnt able carry out his job role.  
Unum subsequently  agreed to pay the claim backdated to January 2018 when the deferred  
period ended and said it would continue to pay the claim going forwards subject to the  
remaining terms of the policy.  
Mr P says Unum shouldve accepted and paid his claim much earlier th an it did. He says he  
and his family have been put through considerable distress and worry by the delay in  
payment, and it has caused his mental health to further deteriorate.  
Our investigator partially upheld his complaint. Based on the medical evidence available to  
Unum in January 2018, he didnt think its decision to decline the claim at that stage was  
unfair or unreasonable.  
DRN-1724761However, given the contents of the report from consultant A dated April 2018, which Mr P  
submitted in support of his appeal, our  investigator concluded that it wasnt fair of Unum to  
maintain its position to decline the claim in May 2018.  
 
At that stage, our investigator said Unum shouldve arranged for an independent medical  
expert to report on his condition then. Had Unum done so, its likely that report wouldve  
been prepared by mid - July and the contents of the report are likely to have been similar to  
consultant Bs report dated October 2018. So, he recommended Unum put things right by  
paying interest on the backdated pa yment Mr P eventually received for the period mid -July 
2018 to early December 2018 when Unum made payment to Mr Ps employer. He also  
recommended Unum pay Mr P £300 compensation for the trouble and upset Unum caused  
him. 
 
Unum accepted our investigators o pinion in principle although it said interest should be paid  
to Mr Ps employer, as the policyholder, rather than to Mr P directly.  
 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He didnt think the compensation  
amount fairly reflected the impact U nums wrongdoings had on him and his family. He also  
said:  
 
 Interest should be paid directly to him;  
 Unum should be responsible for the legal costs he incurred appealing the decision to  
decline the claim;  
 Unum was wrong to withhold payment of the backdated  claim amount after the  
decision was taken that his claim should be accepted whilst his employer tried to  
negotiate a financial package with him to terminate his employment;  
 Our Service has upheld many complaints against Unum which is supportive of the  
unfair approach taken by Unum when assessing claims under income protection  
insurance policies;  
 There are concerns about the consultant psychiatrist Unum uses to assess claims  
made under income protection insurance policies;  
 Unums appeal process is fundamentally flawed in that it will only request further  
evidence and review the case afresh if a formal complaint is made, as opposed to an  
appeal.  
 
Mr P has also provided us with correspondence hes received from the Financial Conduct  
Authority.  
 
Mr Ps  complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Before I expla in why, I just want to assure both parties that although I havent addressed  
each point theyve made, Ive taken on board all their comments. I mean no discourtesy by  
doing this, but my decision focuses on the points I consider to be most relevant in this  
complaint.  
 
Unum has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably decline  
a claim.  
 
The policy   
The policy can pay out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and  
are unable to work. Under the policy:  
 
 a member is incapacitated if they are unable, by reason of their illness to perform  
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation and is not performing  
any occupation  
 
 Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member  
was actively undertaking for  the employer immediately prior to incapacity  
 Illness means: ill-health or disease as evidenced by a significant or objectively  
determined deterioration in physical or mental health.  
 
So, the focus is very mu ch on whether Mr P was unable to perform the role he was doing  
because of illness. And I think its important to point out that when making a claim, its for Mr  
P to demonstrate that he meets the definition of incapacity.  
 
Decision to decline the claim in January 2018  
 
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available at the time the decision was  
initially taken to decline the claim when considering whether Unum unfairly declined Mr Ps  
claim then.  
 
Most of the medical evidence during the de ferred period refers to Mr Ps mental state being  
affected by work -related issues, although there is also mention of a family member  
becoming suddenly very unwell and Mr P caring from them.  
 
Around the time Mr P was first signed off work by his GP, in July  2017, the GP notes reflect  
that Mr P had been struggling at work and that things had come to a head in a recent  
review. A letter from consultant A dated August 2017 explains that Mr P had suffered a panic  
attack when returning home from work after that review and that Mr P had described his  
work as challenging and his manager a bully. Although there is mention of a family  
members ill health which was contributing to his anxiety, consultant A concludes that Mr P  
had developed burn -out as a result of significant difficulties in the workplace.  
 
An occupational report from July 2017, shortly after the start of the deferred period, also  
suggests that the situation with the family member had improved and that this wasnt the  
main cause of Mr Ps deterioration in mental health resulting in him being unable to work.  
 
Other medical evidence from the deferred period also supports that it was the work -related  
issues that was causing him to be off work and causing his mental health to deteriorate. For  
example, an occupational health report from November 2017 concludes that Mr P is unlikely  
to be fit for work until there had been some progress to address his perceived work issues.  
Further, consultant As letter dated October 2017 reflected that Mr Ps moo d had improved  
as a result of taking certain medication, he was less anxious and more confident. Its also  
reflected that Mr P felt in the best shape of his life as hed been going to the gym 3 -4 times  
per week and eating healthily.  
 
So, although Mr P had been signed off work by his GP, and not capable of attending his  
specific workplace, I dont think the evidence supports that he was unable to perform the role  
he was doing more generally for the entirety of the deferred period. Im therefore satisfied  
that based on the totality of the evidence Unum had available when declining the claim in  
January 2018, it reasonably concluded that Mr P wasnt incapacitated throughout that  
period.   
All in all, the evidence supports that the barrier to Mr Ps return to wo rk during the deferred  
period was the work -related issues. Its likely the underlying issues he says he was  
experiencing leading up to his sickness absence wouldnt have existed if he was doing the  
same role at a different employer.  
 
Unums decision to mai ntain its position in May 2018:  
 
Consultant A produced a report in support of the appeal against Unums decision to decline  
the claim dated April 2018. That report sets out a detailed history of Mr Ps mental health  
and reflects that Mr Ps symptoms included:  
insomnia; impairment of concentration and short term memory; reduced appetite with  
weight loss; more tearful/emotional and irritable than usual; diminished ability to derive  
pleasure from life; feeling worthless and hopeless; finding it  difficult to see a future and an  
acknowledgement to occasional suicidal thoughts.  
 
Consultant A concluded:  
 
The constellation of these symptoms in my opinion constitute significant functional  
impairment which would and does prevent Mr P from undertaking  his role at work.  
Mr Ps mental health conditions have in my opinion worsened over time (since  
October 2017) and I currently view him to be medically unfit for work...  
 
Those conclusions, and ultimate opinion, differed to that of the consultant psychiatr ist Unum  
referred Mr Ps case file to for a medical opinion. Faced with two differing medical opinions  
Im satisfied that in this case, rather than rejecting the appeal outright and maintaining its  
position at that stage, it wouldve been fair and reasonab le for Unum to have arranged for a  
third, independent consultant psychiatrist to report on whether Mr P was incapacitated  
throughout the deferred period.  
 
Had it done so, Im persuaded that its likely that the conclusions of the independent medical  
expe rts report wouldve been similar to the report produced by consultant B in October  
2018. In light of that report, Unum agreed that Mr P was incapacitated throughout the  
deferred period and agreed to pay the claim backdated to when the deferred period ende d in 
January 2018.  
 
I cant know how long it wouldve taken for Unum to have instructed an independent  
psychiatric consultant, obtain updated medical records from Mr Ps GP, arrange a time for  
Mr P to attend an appointment and for the expert to prepare and draft a report.  
 
It took around ten weeks from the date on which Unum decided to arrange for consultant B  
to provide an independent report in August 2018 for Unum to then agree to pay the claim in  
light of consultant Bs report. Like our invest igator, I dont think thats an unreasonable  
timeframe to assume that it wouldve taken if this had been requested in May 2018 rather  
than August 2018.  
 
So, I think Unums decision to pay the claim should have been taken by 19 July 2019.  
 
Other issues:  
 
Mr P says Unum told him it undertakes a more detailed review of the file when a complaint is  
made, whereas an appeal is more limited in scope. Mr P doesnt think thats fair. However,  
given my findings above, I dont need to make a finding on this issue. Im  satisfied given the  
medical evidence Mr P put forward in support of his appeal, Unum shouldnt have rejected  
the appeal outright in May 2018.   
Mr P says his mental health significantly deteriorated from January 2018 after he was told  
that his claim had be en declined and thats supported by the medical evidence Ive seen.  
However, Ive already explained why I dont think Unum unfairly declined his claim then. So,  
Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Unum responsible for the deterioration  
in his mental health in the early part of 2018.  
 
Unum shouldve arranged for Mr P to see an independent medical expert sooner than it did,  
but even if that decision had been taken in May 2018, the medical evidence suggests that  
there were other stressors  affecting Mr Ps mental health around that time which werent  
limited to his claim being declined, and included but werent limited to an imminent  
employment tribunal hearing. So, its difficult to attribute, what if any, having his appeal  
rejected in May 2018, and Unums decision not to arrange an independent medical expert to  
meet with him until August 2018, had on him. However, Im satisfied its fair to conclude that  
it contributed somewhat to an already difficult and stressful period fo r Mr P.  
 
Mr P was also without the policy benefit for longer than he shouldve been which I accept  
wouldve caused some financial stress. And, all in all, Im satisfied £300 fairly reflects the  
distress and inconvenience Unum caused Mr P.  
 
I also think it s fair and reasonable for Unum to pay interest on the policy benefit for the  
period he shouldve received the lump sum back payment up until the time Unum made  
payment to the policyholder. Im satisfied this should be paid directly to Mr P rather than the  
policyholder as this is interest that Mr P lost out on as a result of what Unum did wrong by  
not paying the benefit to the policyholder when it reasonably shouldve.  
 
Mr P also says Unum should be responsible for the legal fees he incurred challenging  
Unum s decision to decline his claim and reject his appeal. However, I dont think it would be  
fair and reasonable to direct Unum to pay, or contribute towards, such fees. Mr P was able  
to challenge the way in which Unum handled his claim, and the decisions it  took, without  
legal assistance.  
 
When deciding this complaint, Ive considered the previous decisions made by our Service  
referred to by Mr P in response to our investigators opinion along with the other documents,  
arguments and statistics hes provided alongside them. However, Ive decided this complaint  
on its individual circumstances, as Im required to do.  
 
I also know Mr P has raised concerns about the independence of the psychiatric consultant  
Unum used to consider the complaint. But Ive not seen s ufficient evidence to find that they  
didnt act with professional integrity when reviewing the claim and its not uncommon for  
different consultants to have differing medical opinions. Besides, Ive already explained that I  
dont think Unum initially unfairly declined the claim, considering the totality of the medical  
evidence at the time.  
 
I can also only look at whether Unum did anything wrong in this case, not whether the  
policyholder did; including whether it shouldve paid the sum it rec eived from Unum  
representing the backdated benefit under the policy in December 2018 to Mr P earlier than it  
did. 
 
Putting things right  
 
Within 28 days from the date on which we notify Unum that Mr P accepts my final decision, I  
direct Unum to:  
 
1. pay direct ly to Mr P:   
A. an amount equivalent to 8% simple interest per annum* on:  
 
(i) the backdated lump sum payment Mr P wouldve received had his 
claim been accepted on 19 July 2018 from that date, to the date on 
which Unum made payment to the policyholder in early De cember 
2018;  
 
(ii) each monthly payment that shouldve been paid to the policyholder 
thereafter between July and early December 2018 under the policy - 
the date on which payment of the outstanding benefit payment was 
made to the policyholder.  
 
B. £300 compensat ion to reflect the trouble and upset it caused him in this particular  
case.  
 
2. provide Mr P a written breakdown of how the amounts in 1. A. above have been  
calculated.  
 
*If Unum Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax  
from any interest paid, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give him a  
certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  
& Customs, if appropriate.  
 
My final decision  
 
I partiall y uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Unum Limited to put things right by doing what  
Ive set out above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or  
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.  
 
C. 
 
David Curtis -Johnson  
Ombudsman  