DRN-3729413
The complaint
Mr W complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) who voided his insurance following a claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a storm that caused damage to his roof, Mr W contacted QEL. He said that he had 
to get the damage repaired to prevent any further damage to his property. The contractor he 
used, charged him around £2,600, which he wanted QEL to reimburse. QEL sent a surveyor 
to assess the property. The surveyor wrote a report and took photos of Mr Ws property. The 
photos showed, and the report said, that there were several cracks on the exterior of the 
property. 
QEL assessed the report as well as the questions and responses Mr W gave when he took 
out the policy. One of the questions was: Within the last 10 years, has your property shown 
signs of cracking on the internal or external surface of an outside wall or party wall, whether 
this has been repaired or not?. To which Mr W answered No.
Having reviewed Mr Ws claim, QEL voided his policy (and his previous policy as he had 
renewed) and refunded him his premiums. Its reason for having voided his cover, was 
because it said that it was obvious that there had been cracks on the external wall of the 
property, within the last 10 years. It said that aerial internet images dating back to 2014, 
showed the same cracks that its surveyor had seen.  And that Mr W had admitted that the 
cracks had been present and visible for a number of years. 
Mr W was unhappy with QELs decision and said that he had little construction knowledge, 
but accepted that the cracks had been there, which hadnt affected the property. So, he 
referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
didnt think it should be upheld. 
Although she accepted that Mr W had little construction knowledge, she said that none was 
required as the cracks were quite obvious. She agreed that QEL could void the policy and 
rely on the policy terms and conditions to do so. 
QEL accepted the view, Mr W did not. He maintained that the cracks didnt affect the 
property and that QEL were using any excuse not to pay out on the claim. Given that the 
claim related to his roof and not the external walls. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr W, but I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
It seems to me that the main issue of Mr Ws complaint is that QEL unfairly voided his policy. 
So, Ive concentrated on this main issue. But I should make it clear that I have considered all 
the issues raised. If I havent commented on it, this doesnt mean I havent considered it, I 
have. But, as an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality.
Mr W said that he contacted QEL to make a claim about damage to his roof. He explained 
that a storm blew tiles off, he also said that he instructed a contractor to carry out the repairs 
in order to prevent further damage to his property. The contractor charged Mr W around 
£2,600 for the repairs. 
QEL sent a surveyor to assess the property and I have had a read of the report that he sent 
to QEL. In it he said: there are multiple cracks in the building. And because if this, he 
referred the claim to QELs underwriters as his investigations, also found that the cracks 
were seen on aerial internet images, that dated back as long ago as 2014.
QEL said that as the cracks had been present within the last 10 years, and Mr W hadnt 
notified QEL of this, it couldnt continue to provide cover and voided the policy. I can see that 
QEL has provided evidence that shows that Mr W during the renewal of the policy was 
specifically asked if there were any cracks in his property either internally or externally. To 
which he said no. 
Mr W initially said that he hadnt noticed any cracks in his property, either inside or outside. 
But during his contact with QEL, he admitted that he was aware of the cracks on his 
propertys external walls. But also said that they had been there for a while and hadnt 
affected the structure of his property. 
Whilst I understand that Mr W said that the structure of his property was unaffected by the 
cracks, the policy I think is clear in that it states that any cracks (structural or not) that have 
been at the property within the last 10 years, must be notified to the insurer: Within the last 
10 years, has your property shown signs of cracking on the internal or external surface of an 
outside wall or party wall, whether this has been repaired or not? 
I asked QEL what wouldve happened had Mr W notified them about the cracks. It said that it 
would not have taken on the risk. In other words, it wouldnt have offered a policy of 
insurance on Mr Ws property. So, ultimately, I think that its decision to void Mr Ws policy 
(treat it as if he had never been insured) was reasonable, as QEL fairly applied the terms 
and conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied that there was a valid reason to void Mr Ws 
policy. 
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr W wouldve liked but, in the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably ask QEL to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons as outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman