DRN-3485307
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (Clydesdale) didnt assist him with his monthly payments when he was impacted by 
the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) and that they gave him incorrect information about his 
eligibility for support.
 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr D acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Clydesdale. The agreement required Mr D to make a set payment each month for 60 
months. 
In January 2020 Mr D missed a payment. He discussed this with Clydesdale in February 
2020. He told them he was working through an agency and had received less work than 
expected, so was unable to make his payment. Mr D made his usual payment in February 
2020. 
Mr D and Clydesdale agreed a repayment plan to begin in March 2020, which increased Mr 
Ds monthly payment until the end of 2020 in order to clear the arrears. Mr Ds payments 
were due to return to the originally agreed sum at the beginning of 2021 once the arrears 
had been paid. 
In March 2020 Mr D contacted Clydesdale to tell them his income was affected by Covid-19, 
and he was no longer able to get any work. Clydesdale applied breathing space to Mr Ds 
account. Mr D continued to make payments, but they were for differing amounts each month. 
Mr D asked if he could have a payment holiday at the end of April 2020, and Clydesdale told 
him it wouldnt be available. 
Mr D asked again for a payment holiday in October 2020, and Clydesdale told him hed be 
eligible for one if he cleared his arrears. Mr D cleared his arrears and made an application 
for a payment holiday online, which Mr D said he thought had been successful. 
Clydesdale called Mr D in early December 2020 to get an update on his circumstances as 
his account was in arrears. Mr D complained to Clydesdale and said he didnt know his 
payment holiday request had been declined, and he didnt know he was in arrears. Mr D said 
if hed known sooner, he couldve acted. 
Clydesdale sent Mr D their final response to his complaint in January 2021. They said Mr D 
wasnt eligible for a payment holiday because his account had been in arrears the month 
before he applied for one. They offered Mr D £25 compensation for giving him the wrong 
information about this. They said they the payment holiday process set out that if an 
application was accepted it would be automatically applied, and if it wasnt accepted, theyd 
be in touch. Clydesdale said they tried to contact Mr D on two occasions but were unable to 
get through. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint about his account being in arrears. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said he 
wanted the payment holiday to be agreed, as this would cover the three months arrears he 
had. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He gave his view that Clydesdale couldve 
considered offering Mr D a payment holiday earlier, when he told them hed been impacted 
by Covid-19. He said there would be no need to apply one now, because Mr Ds account 
would still be in the same situation. That is that he would need to repay the arrears accrued 
during a payment holiday. However, Clydesdale should update Mr Ds credit file to remove 
any missed payments relating to Covid-19. 
Our investigator also said that Clydesdale should pay Mr D a total of £150 compensation to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused, and that it might be beneficial for a discussion 
to take place between Mr D and Clydesdale to see if the payment arrangement could be 
made more affordable or if Mr D could end his agreement early. 
Clydesdale didnt agree. They said Mr D was experiencing financial difficulties prior to Covid-
19, and they treated him as such by entering a payment arrangement to repay arrears. They 
said Mr D wasnt eligible for a payment holiday in line with FCA guidance, and so it wouldnt 
be fair to remove the missed payments from his credit file. They agreed to pay Mr D £150 
compensation.
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mr D was supplied with a car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
When Mr D first asked Clydesdale for a payment holiday in April 2020, the FCA had 
released specific guidance relating to motor finance agreements and Covid-19. That 
guidance said: 
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably expect to 
experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus. Where a customer was 
in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC 
would continue to apply.
And:
A firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm 
determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so.
Mr D had previously missed a payment in January 2020 and had entered a payment 
arrangement in order to repay these arrears between March and December 2020. 
Clydesdale say this shows he was in financial difficulty prior to Covid-19, and so he wasnt 
eligible for a payment holiday according to the FCA guidance. The general principle behind the guidance was to ensure consumers who would have 
otherwise been okay, wouldnt be negatively impacted by Covid-19, and I think its fair to say 
that Mr D was one of these consumers. I say that because although Mr D had missed a 
payment in January 2020, hed been able to make his usual monthly payment in February 
2020 and had arranged a plan to repay the arrears. I havent seen anything to indicate that, 
but for Covid-19, Mr D wouldnt have been able to continue to make his usual monthly 
payments and keep to the payment arrangement to clear the month of arrears. 
When Mr D asked for help with his payments in April 2020 its clear that the reason for this 
was solely related to Covid-19, as hed lost all work as a result of lockdown requirements. 
Had Covid-19 not occurred, Im persuaded that its unlikely that Mr D wouldve required any 
assistance.
So, I think Clydesdale shouldve offered Mr D a payment holiday in April 2020, which could 
have lasted up to six months. If Clydesdale had offered this, Mr D would still have needed to 
repay any sums that were subject to a payment holiday, as he is now doing for the arrears 
on the account. So, I dont think its reasonable to ask Clydesdale to retrospectively apply a 
payment holiday, as Mr D would still be in the same position he is now.
But, if the payment holiday had been agreed as it shouldve, Mr Ds arrears wouldnt have 
been reported to his credit file. So, Clydesdale should remove any adverse information from 
Mr Ds credit file in respect of any arrears relating to Covid-19. 
Clydesdale have accepted that when Mr D asked again about a payment holiday in October 
2020, they gave him incorrect information about his eligibility for one. Clydesdale offered Mr 
D £25 compensation. Our investigator said that Mr D had also experienced distress and 
inconvenience in not being granted a payment holiday when he shouldve been, and so 
Clydesdale should increase the compensation to a total of £150. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that £150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr D. 
Mr D is currently making additional payments in order to clear the three months of arrears 
accumulated in 2020 and has told this service that hes finding it difficult. Clydesdale have 
said it might be better for Mr D to end the agreement early. Mr D might want to discuss with 
Clydesdale what options remain available to him, and Id remind Clydesdale of its obligation 
to treat Mr D with forbearance and due consideration if hes currently in financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance must: 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in respect of any arrears 
relating to Covid-19. 
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman