DRN-3360571
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Suffolk Building Society (then called Ipswich Building Society) 
rejected their application for a retirement interest only mortgage, and refused to extend the 
term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an interest only mortgage with Suffolk Building Society (SBS) in 2010 
over a ten year term. Over the years, they took out further advances for home 
improvements, taking their mortgage balance to around £192,000.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs R met with a mortgage advisor in branch. They were offered a further 
20 year mortgage term, along with £10,000 further borrowing. They also discussed the 
possibility of a further 40 year term. Mr and Mrs R chose not to go ahead as SBS required 
they take legal advice before proceeding. This is a standard requirement it has for all cases 
involving older borrowers (as Mr R was). Mr and Mrs R did not feel legal advice was 
necessary and did not wish to go ahead on that basis.
In 2019, Mr R contacted SBS again to inquire about extending or renewing the mortgage at 
the end of the term. SBS said it could consider a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO). 
This is a particular type of mortgage aimed at borrowers who are retired  it requires monthly 
interest payments to be made, but does not have a fixed term.
Mr R had initial discussions with SBS about a RIO. He also discussed borrowing around a 
further £20,000 for home improvements and to purchase a vehicle. Following those 
discussions, SBS said it wouldnt be prepared to offer a RIO as it was concerned that it 
wouldnt be affordable for Mrs R should Mr R pass away first. It took into account that Mr R 
is significantly older than Mrs R in reaching this decision.
Mr R then asked to extend the term of their mortgage by three years as their daughter had 
moved back into the family home. This, combined with the potential impact of Brexit 
negotiations and proposed infrastructure work in the local area on property values, meant 
they felt it wasnt the right time for them to downsize to repay the mortgage.
SBS declined to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R complain that SBS has acted unreasonably in refusing to extend the term of 
their mortgage. They also complain about a £999 fee applied to the mortgage in 2012 when 
they took out a new fixed interest rate product.
Our Investigator thought SBS had acted fairly. Mr R disagreed, so the complaint comes to 
me to decide.
Since the complaint has come to us, Mr and Mrs R took out further fixed interest rate 
products on the mortgage. They were then able to arrange a new interest only mortgage with 
a different lender. They redeemed the mortgage with SBS, incurring an early repayment 
charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs R took out the mortgage, they agreed to repay the balance at the end of 
the term in 2020. Its reasonable that SBS expected they do that.
That said, SBS needed to give fair and reasonable consideration to any applications 
Mr and Mrs R made. And, where a borrower cant repay, Id expect SBS to give them 
reasonable time to make arrangements to redeem the mortgage and allow those plans to 
complete  including considering whether a term extension, or conversion to a product such 
as a RIO, might be appropriate.
Ive listened to a call Mr R had with one of SBSs mortgage consultants about the possibility 
of a RIO, and further borrowing.
Under the terms of a RIO, repayment is due when both borrowers pass away or enter long 
term care. So, SBS needed to be satisfied that the mortgage payment would be sustainable 
for both Mr and Mrs R individually, in line with its lending criteria, if either of them were to 
pre-decease the other. It also needed to consider if the mortgage would be affordable for 
them in future, should interest rates rise.
Mr R receives a pension of over £50,000 a year. In the event of his death, his wife will 
receive half his pension income, along with her own pension once she reaches state 
retirement age. Mr R is in his late eighties, and Mrs R is in her mid-sixties.
Im satisfied that SBS gave fair and reasonable consideration to Mr Rs request for a RIO, in 
line with its lending criteria  including whether the monthly payments would be sustainable 
for Mrs R, should Mr R pass away first. In that event, her income would be significantly less 
than their combined income. The rules of mortgage regulation require a lender to consider 
this possibility when assessing the affordability of a RIO, and I think SBSs concerns about 
this were reasonable.
Mr R also discussed the possibility of a term extension as an alternative to a RIO. Hes 
explained that he and Mrs R didnt feel it was the right time for them to downsize for a 
number of reasons. Those reasons include their daughter moving back home following 
university, and concerns about the impact of proposed infrastructure works in the local area 
on property values.
SBS said it wouldnt agree a term extension on the existing mortgage instead of a RIO. This 
was because it said that Mr R had told it, when discussing the possibility of a RIO, that he 
wanted the mortgage to be repaid following the death of both borrowers. It said that wasnt 
an acceptable repayment strategy for a fixed term interest only mortgage. 
I can understand why Mr R was confused and frustrated. SBS had offered 
Mr and Mrs R a 20 year term extension less than a year before, and discussed a 40 year 
extension. Given Mr Rs age, this would likely have effectively acted as a RIO. So he 
questioned why something that had been discussed a year earlier was no longer available to 
him.
SBS launched RIOs as a new standalone product in 2019, after the discussions 
Mr and Mrs R had with its agent in 2018. That meant it had reviewed and amended its 
lending criteria in the meantime. Those amendments included the provision Ive outlined above, ensuring a RIO is affordable for either borrower individually. I think its reasonable 
SBS took those steps.
Mr and Mrs R didnt proceed with the 20 year term extension in 2018 as they didnt want to 
take legal advice, which was a requirement of the mortgage offer. Mr Rs career was in 
financial services, and he felt it unnecessary given his previous experience.
SBS says legal advice is a requirement for new mortgages and term extensions for any 
borrowers over the age of 75, which Mr R was at the time. Its confirmed that it would have 
required Mr and Mrs R take legal advice before agreeing any extension to their mortgage, or 
offering a RIO, in 2019. So even if a RIO had been possible, or if SBS had agreed a term 
extension to the existing mortgage, in 2019 this requirement would still have to have been 
met.
Its not unusual for lenders to require borrowers to take legal advice in later life. It ensures 
that the borrowers are aware of what theyre committing to for estate planning purposes, as 
well as the potential ramifications on each individual should the other pass away. I dont 
consider it to be unreasonable that legal advice was a requirement for SBS to extend the 
term.
SBS should also have considered whether or not it was in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests to 
extend the term of their existing mortgage. I can understand why Mr and Mrs R chose not to 
sell the property when the term ended, but I think there were reasons Mr and Mrs R didnt 
want to sell  rather than reasons that they couldnt. Ultimately, they were able to redeem 
the mortgage by re-mortgaging to another lender.
I cant fairly say it was in Mr and Mrs Rs best interests for SBS to have extended the term 
for a further three years. I say that because theres no guarantee that Mr and Mrs R would 
then have felt ready to sell. They also would have continued to pay interest in the intervening 
period, and theres no guarantee whether house prices in the area will rise or fall. And I also 
need to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs R had originally committed to repay their loan in 2020.
In any event, as Ive explained above, SBS would have required Mr and Mrs R to take legal 
advice before agreeing to extend the term. Given Mr R had refused to do this previously, on 
balance, I cant reasonably conclude he would have agreed to take legal advice in 2019. So 
even if SBS had agreed to extend the term of the mortgage, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R 
would have accepted its offer for the same reasons they didnt accept in 2018. 
For these reasons, I think SBS gave fair and reasonable consideration to Mr and Mrs Rs 
requests for a RIO and a term extension, and I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Following our investigators view, Mr R has also complained about the early repayment 
charge applied when they redeemed the mortgage. That didnt form part of the original 
complaint, so I am not considering it here. If Mr and Mrs R want that considered, theyll need 
to make a new complaint about that.
Fee charged in 2012
Mr and Mrs R have also complained about a £999 fee applied to their account on taking out 
a new interest rate product in 2012. Theyd paid a similar fee on inception of the mortgage, 
and Mr R felt this was justified in view of the work carried out at that time, but not justified in 
2012.
SBS has consented to our service considering this part of the complaint, so I dont need to 
consider whether its been brought outside the time limits set by the regulator.The fee charged in 2012 wasnt for SBSs administrative costs, it was part of the costs of the 
interest rate product Mr and Mrs R arranged. Its not unusual for lenders to charge a fee for 
an interest rate product lower than its standard variable rate. The fee was clearly stated in 
the product transfer offer, and Mr and Mrs R signed to accept adding it to the mortgage 
balance. If they werent happy with the fee, they didnt have to take the rate.
Overall, I think it was fairly charged, and I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman