DRN-4394670
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) handled his 
chargeback claim. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr G purchased items from a supplier Ill call A using his Halifax credit 
card. He placed two orders for £51.66 and £47.20 and the orders comprised multiple items. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the quality of two items within these orders and so he asked Halifax 
to raise a chargeback claim for these. The cost of the items was £31.50 and £12. 
Halifax raised two chargeback claims but for the full amount of the orders rather than for the 
amounts Mr G sought to reclaim. They provided a temporary credit for the full amounts and 
subsequently re-debited this when A defended the chargeback. Halifax then realised they 
should have raised claims for the amounts of the disputed items and so decided to write-off 
those amounts meaning that these were effectively re-credited to Mr Gs credit card account. 
Mr G complained to Halifax about what had happened, and in particular how they had put 
through multiple incorrect transactions on his credit card account. Halifax apologised for their 
error in how they handled the chargeback but said that Mr G hadnt been financially 
impacted by this. 
Mr G referred the matter to us as he felt that Halifax should pay compensation for the 
inconvenience hed been caused. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. So, Mr Gs 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Halifax incorrectly handled Mr Gs chargeback claim by using the full 
amounts of the orders rather than the cost of the items that were being disputed. The point 
that remains unresolved is whether its fair for Mr G to receive compensation for what 
happened. 
Ive looked at Mr Gs credit card account statement and can see that, although Halifax put 
through several transactions, they did so without Mr G suffering any financial impact or loss. 
I do appreciate that Halifax putting so many different transactions through for different 
amounts would have been confusing and potentially concerning for Mr G. However, Halifax 
ensured that Mr G didnt suffer a financial penalty and acted promptly in trying to correct their 
errors. So, while I understand why Mr G has asked for compensation, I think Halifax 
apologising for what happened is sufficient. 
Mr G has mentioned to us that Halifax sent their final response letter to an incorrect address. 
Halifax has told us theyve investigated this under a separate complaint. I dont know 
whether Halifax has sent their response to Mr G about this. If they have, and Mr G remains 
unhappy with their response, he can refer the matter to us to see if this is something we can 
investigate. And he can also do so if Halifax has already had the permitted eight-week 
timescale to send their response and hasnt yet sent this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman