DRN-2544338
The complaint
Mr W complains he was mis-sold an endowment policy for mortgage repayment purposes 
by Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV). Along with the policy not being 
suitable for his attitude to risk, he complains the policy was forward-sold in advance of a 
mortgage and so there was a term and amount mismatch.
Mr W is being represented by a claims management company in his complaint.
What happened
Mr W sought savings advice from LV in 1995. He already had savings in bank and 
building society accounts and decided he wished to save elsewhere. The fact-find 
records he was living at home, didnt have any dependents and had nearly £400 a month 
disposable income. Along with saving, Mr W also sought some life cover to help with 
funeral costs. He was recommended a with-profits endowment policy with a sum assured 
of £6,222, with a 20-year term and £30 a month premium.
In 1996, Mr W decided to use the policy to support a mortgage. The policy matured in 
2015, with a maturity value of £13,128.92 after paying in £7,200 in premiums.
Mr W complained, via his CMC, that the policy had not been suitable for his mortgage 
repayment needs. LV didnt uphold the complaint as the policy had not been sold for 
mortgage repayment purposes, but savings. Mr W asked us to look into the matter as a 
mortgage had been taken out a short-time later and so believed the policy was forward-
sold  that is, sold in advance of when it was actually needed. His representative 
considers the fact-find recording Mr W didnt have mortgage plans but was saving for a 
house to be a contradiction.
Ultimately, our investigator agreed the policy was suitable for Mr W with regards to the 
level of risk it presented for mortgage repayment purposes. But she didnt think Mr W had 
a need for life cover in advance of it being used for mortgage purposes. So she asked LV 
to refund the premium amount used for life cover from 1995 to 1996 and add interest on 
that amount.
LV has asked for the matter to be referred for a final decision. In summary, it says the 
policy wasnt sold for mortgage repayment purposes; the life cover was for funeral costs 
and made the policy qualifying for tax purposes. Overall, its satisfied the policy met Mr 
Ws needs and objectives at the time.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 January 2021, explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. Both parties have responded confirming they have nothing further 
to add. As both parties have responded its appropriate to move this complaint to our final 
stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from those. I therefore make my provisional findings final. 
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether the policy met Mr Ws 
needs and objectives at the time is the purpose for which it was sold. I understand the 
point the CMC makes about the fact-find recording that Mr W wanted to save to buy a 
house in the future. But I dont find its argument persuasive that this means the policy 
was sold with mortgage repayment in mind. Indeed the fact-find is clear that Mr W 
didnt have plans to take out a mortgage at the time.
If I take the CMCs arguments to their logical conclusion, that means any 
recommendation made for savings to help buy a house in the future, means those 
savings are to be used for mortgage repayment  even its suggestion that Mr W ought to 
have been advised to save in a bank or building society account instead. I dont believe 
that was its intention in making the argument; its entirely possible to save for a house but 
not use those savings for mortgage repayment at the end of the term. I accept Mr W 
wished to save for a house, but Im not persuaded that means this policy was sold for 
mortgage repayment purposes.
I accept Mr W did subsequently use the policy to support a mortgage. But that was several 
months after the policy was sold, and Im not aware LV had any involvement in that 
process. What Mr W did with the policy later, has no real bearing on my consideration of 
whether the recommendation was suitable at the point of sale, particularly if that wasnt an 
aim of the policy at the time. Im satisfied my consideration is in relation to whether the 
policy was suitable to meet Mr Ws savings objective and wish to have life cover for 
funeral costs.
Having considered the information provided, Im satisfied the recommendation was 
suitable because:
Mr W wanted to save in something other than a bank or building society 
account (as recorded in the fact find). He already had such savings and was 
looking to invest elsewhere.
Mr W was single, didnt have any dependents, and was living with his parents. 
The policy was invested into the with-profits fund, accepted within the industry 
as representing a low level of risk. Im satisfied Mr Ws circumstances meant 
he was in a position to accept a low level of risk with his savings.
Mr W had nearly £400 a month disposable income and so the £30 a month 
premium was affordable.
Mr W wanted to provide funds to cover funeral costs. This policy achieved that 
objective. Although he had death in service benefits, these arent always 
guaranteed to remain a benefit, or the policyholder remain with that employer. 
The inclusion of life cover also meant the policy was qualifying for tax- 
purposes, meaning the maturity value would be tax-free (providing there were 
no chargeable events during the term).
Although the term isnt what I would usually expect for savings, that of itself 
doesnt make the policy unsuitable, particularly if there might be a long-term 
saving aim.
Overall, Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable for Mr W, and so I wont be 
asking LV to pay any redress to him.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman