DRN-3043418
The complaint
Mrs M complains  about  Options  UK Personal  Pensions  LLP,  trading  as Carey  
Pensions  UK LLP (Carey)  at the time of the relevant  events,  accepting  an application  
for a Self-  Invested  Personal  Pension  (SIPP)  and an investment  into Carbon  Credits  
from an unregulated  business  called  New Frontier  Advisory  Ltd (NFAL).  For simplicity,  
I have  referred  to Options  UK Personal  Pensions  LLP as Carey  throughout  this 
decision.  Mrs M says  shes  suffered  a loss from the Carbon  Credits  investment  and 
that Carey  should  compensate  her for her loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2021. In the provisional decision I set out why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint and make an award. The provisional decision is 
being sent with this final decision and should be read in conjunction with, and forms part 
of, this final decision.
I did not receive any further submissions from Carey or Mrs M in response to the 
provisional decision.
Copy of provisional decision 1
complaint
Mrs M complains that after being referred to Carey Pensions UK LLP (Carey)  which was 
a provider of Self-Invested Personal Pension plans (SIPPs) - by an unregulated business 
called New Frontier Advisory Ltd (NFAL), her pension was switched to Carey and then an 
investment was made into Carbon Credits. Mrs M now cant sell the Carbon Credits. She 
says Carey should compensate her for her loss. Options UK Personal Pensions LLP 
(Options) is responsible for the complaint and the acts about which Mrs M complains.
background
An ombudsman at this service previously considered the complaint and issued a 
provisional decision dated 31 August 2017. A copy is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In that provisional decision the ombudsman said she was minded to uphold the 
complaint.
The background to Mrs Ms complaint is set out in the attached provisional decision and I 
would refer the parties to it. However, in brief, Mrs M says New Frontier contacted her by 
phone in October 2011. She says it told her about carbon credits and presented them as, 
a major new way of investing for future growth. It called her back later and told her about 
a specific project which she agreed to invest in. NFAL then put her in touch with Carey so 
that she could set up a SIPP and transfer her existing pension to it. This was so that she 
could invest her pension funds in Carbon Credits. Mrs M went on to transfer her pension to 
a (then) Carey SIPP and invest most of her pension funds (£38,000) in Carbon Credits.
Carey is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Carey was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA"), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA"). Carey was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to 
arrange (bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, 
operate or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments.
The ombudsman, in her provisional decision of 31 August 2017, set out that she hadnt 
seen any evidence that Carey had carried out due diligence on NFAL. Her view was that 
this shouldve included an understanding of the nature of NFAL and its work; what its 
business objectives were; the types of clients it dealt with; the levels of business it 
conducted; the types of investments it dealt with; and whether it used other SIPP 
operators. It should have also put in place an agreement setting out its relationship with 
NFAL.
If it carried out these activities, she thought it likely that Carey would have discovered that 
NFAL wasnt regulated  although the evidence that Carey should have been aware of was 
that it was carrying out regulated activities by advising on the merits of switching from an 
existing pension to a SIPP. Mrs M had indicated in correspondence with it that she was 
receiving advice from NFAL in relation to the pension switch to the Carey SIPP.
Carey would have also discovered that NFAL was specialising in Carbon Credits, which 
had been identified as, an immature market with a limited and slightly chequered history.
In terms of Careys investigations and consideration of Carbon Credits as an investment to 
be held in a SIPP, about a year prior to Mrs Ms application Carey said itd instructed a 
third party business to review whether the Carbon Credits could be held within a SIPP. A 
report was produced in October 2010. That report concluded the investment was liquid; 
could be included in a SIPP; and was unlikely to attract any pension scheme tax charges. 
At that time itd also reviewed the information it could find about Carbon-ex. In particular, 
its website; its brochure; and its investment model. It says these appeared professional to 
it and gave a good overview of the business.
Carbon-ex (via a network of unregulated introducers, such as NAFL) purported to offer a 
service which involved it buying Carbon Credits for a consumer, then selling them on to 
businesses.
The ombudsman set out that such investments were unlikely to be suitable for the majority 
of retail investors and were only likely to be suitable for a small element of the investment 
portfolio of a sophisticated investor.
Furthermore it was discussed that Carey would have discovered that NFAL had filed 
dormant company accounts for the year up to 31 July 2011, on 19 October 2011 - which 
showed assets of £2 - and that it hadnt filed any accounts at the point Mrs Ms investment 
was made. The ombudsman set out that on 13 December 2011  the day before Mrs M 
signed the Carbon Credit contract and her investment was made  a First Gazette notice 
for compulsory strike-off was published that said:
The REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES gives NOTICE that, unless cause is shown to 
the contrary, at the expiration of 3 months from the above date [13 December 2011] the 
name of
NEW FRONTIER ADVISORY LTD
will be struck off the register and the company will be dissolved.She thought this should have raised concerns and that proceeding to allow the 
investment would put Mrs M at risk.
The ombudsman also thought that Carey had not undertaken sufficient due diligence on 
the Carbon Credit investment itself. And if it had carried this out Carey ought to have 
known there was a high chance of consumer detriment. She was not persuaded that 
Carey had acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mrs M fairly by accepting 
the investment.
 
She didnt believe the disclaimers that Mrs M had signed when making the investment 
meant that Carey wasnt required to carry out due diligence on either NFAL or the 
investment itself. If it had done so then the point would never have arrived when Mrs M 
had to sign such disclaimers, because it should have identified that the investment 
should not have been accepted into the SIPP.
Mrs M accepted the provisional decision.
Carey did not accept the provisional decision and made further submissions. I have 
considered them in full. But, in summary, it said:
 This provisional decision is using hindsight and weight is not being given to the 
cotemporaneous evidence.
 Only the 2009 SIPP report existed at the point Mrs Ms SIPP was set up and her 
Carbon Credits investment was made. This wasnt guidance and all it did was make 
suggestions. The other report, guidance and Dear CEO letter I referred to arent 
relevant and its not fair and reasonable to consider the complaint in the context of 
them. The way the regulator expects the SIPP sector to implement the rules and 
Principles has developed over time.
 The ombudsman needed to specifically say what legal liability it had. It didnt 
breach any rules.
 It acted on an execution only basis and didnt advise Mrs M. And it made this clear 
to her. Its not allowed to give advice or comment on the suitability of investments.
 It didnt know about NFALs involvement until after the SIPP had been set up and 
Mrs Ms pension had been moved to it. NFAL didnt introduce Mrs M to it.
 Even if NFAL had introduced Mrs M to it, it had no duty or obligation to undertake 
due diligence on it or enter into an agreement with it. It had no legal duty to do so. 
And it didnt have an ongoing relationship with NFAL.
 It didnt accept everything that came its way. It undertook sufficient due diligence on 
the Carbon Credits investment and established that it could be held within a UK 
pension  that being the full extent of its obligations.
 If it had undertaken the level of due diligence the ombudsman set out then this 
would not have indicated any reasons not to deal with NFAL or accept the Carbon 
Credits investment.
 It identified the Carbon Credits investment as high risk, speculative and non-
standard and it made Mrs M sign a clear warning to acknowledge that. The 
investment was legitimate and Mrs M owns Carbon Credits. Its not under any 
regulatory obligation to make sure an investment can be independently valued and this wouldnt be indicative of its performance or legitimacy anyway.
 The ombudsmans provisional decision amounts to a decision that it should have 
assessed the suitability of the investment in Carbon Credits which is fundamentally 
wrong. The ombudsman shouldnt be considering whether the investment was 
suitable for Mrs M because it wasnt required to assess this.
 Even if itd carried out the level of due diligence the ombudsman said it should 
have, this wouldnt have revealed any reason not to accept the Carbon Credits 
investment. All the concerns shed identified related to the suitability of Carbon 
Credits  not their legitimacy or the ability to hold them in a UK pension. But in any 
event, it seems there was a market for the Carbon Credits and they werent a 
scam.
 Its not fair and reasonable to say Mrs M  who invested after being told of the risks 
 wouldnt have invested if itd given her warnings.
 There were lots of ways Mrs M could have invested in Carbon Credits if itd rejected 
her business. And its most likely she would have gone ahead with the investment 
even if itd taken all the steps the ombudsman said it should have.
 Mrs M and other parties had contributed to her losses and so its not fair to hold it 
fully responsible.
 Theres no evidence to support the ombudsmans award of £500 for the trouble and 
upset Mrs M had been caused.
my provisional findings
In arriving at a decision that she believed was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, 
the ombudsman in her provisional decision of 31 August 2017 set out that she took into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes 
of practice; and what she considered to have been good industry practice at the time. I 
have also considered these matters in light of Careys further submissions to arrive at a 
decision that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
the Principles
In my view, the FCAs (previously FSA) Principles for Businesses are of particular 
relevance to my decision. The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs 
handbook are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the 
regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this 
complaint include Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no 
Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its 
particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles 
which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the 
essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of 
an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He 
concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if 
it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of 
the Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to 
attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBA judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case upheld the lawfulness of the approach 
taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included 
the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations 
that were required to be taken into account.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision 
of the High Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken 
account of both these judgments when making this decision on Mrs Ms case.I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his 
initial case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the 
Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these 
judgments provide any assistance with the application of the Principles for Businesses, 
and in particular, they say nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So I 
think it reasonable to say it would agree the Principles are a relevant consideration.
regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I 
have considered them in their entirety).
the 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to 
have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer 
detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an 
appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not 
responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the 
SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
 Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate 
to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice 
and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual 
cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard 
their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for 
Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
 Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
 Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
 Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
 Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
 Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
 Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
 Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
the later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide 
advice must meet Principle 6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under 
Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to 
our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
 Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved 
persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear 
disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for un- authorised business warnings.
 Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
 Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments 
they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that 
they are appropriate to deal with.
 Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may 
be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example 
from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
 Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, 
as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
 conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic 
and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
 having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
 
 using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non- 
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring 
introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension 
schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators 
should consider:
 ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and 
the tax charge paid
 periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
 having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
o ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
o undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
 ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
 good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
 ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax- 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply 
and an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP 
operator might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
 Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
 Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
 
 Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
 Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
 Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc)
I have considered Options submissions about the regulatory publications and I 
acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are 
not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I am of the view 
the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) 
guidance does not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to 
take them into account.
I do not think the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 Thematic 
Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint mean that the 
examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time of 
the relevant events. It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the Dear 
CEO letter published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their 
business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry 
participants understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP 
operators changed over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with those Principles. I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not 
consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO 
letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow 
that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into account good industry 
practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I 
consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the 
Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend 
on the circumstances.
 
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Carey to ensure the 
investment in Carbon Credits was suitable for Mrs M. It is accepted Carey was not 
required to give advice to Mrs M, and could not give advice. And I accept the 
publications do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are 
evidence of what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, 
which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
I would also add, that even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post- 
dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my view on 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I find 
that the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what Carey could and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed 
at the relevant time before accepting any introduction from NFAL and/or allowing the 
Carbon Credit investment into the SIPP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles 
and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Carey could have done 
to comply with its regulatory obligations.
what did Careys obligations mean in practice?
I accept Options submission that Carey didnt give Mrs M any advice. But bearing in 
mind its role as a SIPP provider and its reasonable duties and obligations as I have 
discussed, Im satisfied it should still have thought carefully about:
 Whether accepting the business from NFAL was treating its customer  Mrs M  
fairly; taking reasonable care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence.
 Whether accepting the Carbon Credits investment was treating its customer  Mrs 
M
 fairly; taking reasonable care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence.
the due diligence carried out by Carey on NFAL  and what it should have done
Carey says it didnt know about NFALs involvement until after the SIPP had been set up 
and Mrs Ms pension had been moved to it. Having reviewed the evidence, I dont agree. 
Mrs M says when she initially spoke to Carey about the Carbon Credits investment, it 
said it didnt recognise it and asked her for more information. On 26 October 2011  
several weeks before the SIPP was set up  Mrs M forwarded onto Carey information 
about Carbon Credits that had initially been sent to her by NFAL. It was reasonably clear 
the information had initially been sent by NFAL.
Im therefore satisfied its more likely that, on this occasion, when Carey took on this 
business it should have known that NFAL had directed Mrs M to it. Or, at least it was put 
on notice that NFAL was involved and if, then, Carey had undertaken reasonable due 
diligence it would have confirmed that NFAL was acting as an introducer to Carey.
 
Furthermore, significantly before the Carbon Credit investment was made, Carey was 
aware of the involvement of NFAL. It has confirmed that in November 2011 it 
corresponded several times with NFAL to enable the investment in Carbon Credits to go 
ahead, including supplying an authority so that NFAL could be the introducer for Mrs M. 
So Carey was aware that NFAL was materially involved with Mrs Ms investment into 
Carbon Credits.
Carey says that even if NFAL had introduced Mrs M to it, it had no legal duty to enter 
into an agreement with it. I accept it may not have had an ongoing relationship with 
NFAL. But, the September 2009 report I have referred to earlier was explicit in setting 
out that its good practice for SIPP operators to have business agreements in place with 
intermediaries introducing SIPP business. It doesnt say thats only the case where 
theres an ongoing relationship or an agreement should only be put in place after a 
certain amount of business has been submitted or introductions made. Taking into 
account the guidance to clarify the responsibilities and limitations of the introducer, I think it is fair and reasonable to say such consideration should have involved C&PP 
getting a full understanding of the business model of the introducer, satisfying itself that 
the introducer would not be carrying out regulated activities, putting a clear agreement in 
place between it and the introducer and ensuring careful thought was given to the risk 
generally posed to consumers by the introducer.my view is that clarifying the 
responsibilities and limitations in this instance would still have been important.
Carey also says that even if NFAL introduced Mrs M to it, it had no legal duty to carry out 
due diligence on it. But Im satisfied that in order to treat its customer  Mrs M  fairly; 
take reasonable care; and act with due skill, care and diligence it should have carried out 
due diligence on NFAL. And it that it would have been good practice for it to do so.
if Carey had completed sufficient due diligence on NFAL, what should it 
reasonably have concluded?
As the previous ombudsman discussed in her provisional decision, NFAL wasnt 
regulated to give pensions or investment advice or carry on any other regulated 
activities. However the evidence suggested that it was carrying out regulated activities 
by advising on the merits of switching from an existing pension to a SIPP.
The previous ombudsman referred to an email Mrs M sent Carey on 30 November 2011 
which set out, my financial adviser (from NFAL) has asked me to sign this form and 
email it to you to finalise the necessary paper work between us all. I also note that the 
member declaration Carey required Mrs M to sign said, I confirm that I have taken 
appropriate advice in respect of this investment. This wasnt evidence available when 
the SIPP was set up but it indicates the nature of the relationship between Mrs M and 
NFAL  something Carey would have likely discovered if it had undertaken sufficient due 
diligence on NFAL.
Options says that even if itd carried out the level of due diligence the ombudsman 
previously set out, this wouldnt have revealed any reason not to deal with NFAL. But 
having reviewed the evidence, I dont agree. The fact Mrs M described NFAL as her 
financial adviser may have simply been a passing comment. But I dont think that takes 
away from the significance of it. If anything, Im satisfied its a good indication of how she 
viewed the relationship. Its also not the only evidence suggesting that NFAL advised 
her. The member declaration Carey required her to sign confirmed shed taken 
appropriate advice in relation to the investment.
 
I recognise Careys points about the records at Companies House regarding the notice 
for compulsory strike-off for NFAL and that, small businesses regularly miss 
administrative deadlines so this wouldnt have caused any concern.
But it remains that as part of its due diligence on NFAL, I would have expected it to 
investigate its financial standing. If itd done this, it would have discovered there werent 
any accounts thatd been filed  something that then seems to have resulted in a notice 
for compulsory strike-off. If itd investigated this further, it seems likely it would either 
have been told accounts werent yet available or it would have been given a version of 
accounts similar to what was later filed for the year up to 31 August 2011. Either way, it 
would have been presented with an image of a small immature company which 
seemingly could not manage its affairs appropriately.
Taking all these factors into account, Carey should have had significant concerns about 
NFAL. In particular it would have discovered that this was an unregulated introducer with 
a limited track record, providing advice to Mrs M and specialising in unregulated high risk Carbon Credit investments. And so Im still satisfied that Carey ought to have known Mrs 
Ms dealings with NFAL were putting her at risk.
But even if Im wrong about this, for the reasons Ive set out below, Im still satisfied that 
accepting the Carbon Credits investment wasnt treating Mrs M fairly; taking reasonable 
care; or acting with due skill, care and diligence. And that conclusion on its own would 
be enough to uphold the complaint.
the due diligence carried out by Carey on the Carbon Credits investment  and 
what it should have done
Options said that Carey carry out due diligence and did sometimes turn down 
investments. It says it established Carbon Credits could be held in a UK pension and this 
was all it needed to do. But as the ombudsman set out in her provisional decision, and 
as I have discussed in this decision, I dont agree this was all it needed to do. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied that it should  as a minimum  have:
 Identified the Carbon Credits investment as a high-risk, speculative and non-
standard investment, so it should have carried out thorough due diligence on it.
 Examined where Mrs Ms money would be invested  in other words, what type of 
Carbon Credit she was investing in.
 Considered whether the investment was suitable for a personal pension scheme.
 Made sure the investment was genuine  in other words, not a scam or linked to 
fraudulent activity.
 Made sure the investment worked as claimed.
 Ensured that the investment could be independently valued, both at the point of 
purchase and subsequently.
 Ensured Mrs Ms SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment.
 
Carey only obtained a fairly brief report about Carbon Credits and then not the specific 
investment Mrs M was to make. As it said, Carey only sought to identify whether Carbon 
Credits could be validly held in a SIPP  its consideration did not go further than this.
NFAL specialised in Carbon Credits. Carey itself had received information to the effect 
that this was, an immature market with a limited and slightly chequered history and the 
FSA had identified that trading on these markets requires skill and experience. These 
investments were unlikely to be suitable for the majority of retail investors. And they 
were only likely to be suitable for a small element of the investment portfolio of a 
sophisticated investor.
Mrs Ms Carbon Credit Contract sets out that the sale was being made by Carbon-ex 
SARL  a company registered in Luxembourg and Carey. The original contract, later 
amended due to a slight reduction in amount to be invested, set out that she was to buy 
8165 VCS standard carbon credits. The project was set out:
Project id: unfccc id 93
Project Type: Energy industries
Project name: Malana, 86 MW Hydro Project in Himachal PradeshThe contract contained the following risk warning:
There may be a big difference between the buying price and the selling price of Carbon 
Credits. If you have to sell them immediately, you may get back much less than you paid 
for them. You may have difficulty in selling Carbon Credits at the price you wish to 
achieve and, in some circumstances, it may be difficult to sell them at any price. It can 
be difficult to assess what would be a proper market price for these investments. You 
should not invest in Carbon Credits unless you have thought carefully about whether you 
can afford to do so and have taken appropriate Independent advice.
Here Carbon-ex sold units to Mrs M which, according to Carbon-ex, followed the 
Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS). These units were issued by a hydro-electric plant in 
India, at £4.90 each. The basis for Carey sending about £38,000 to Carbon Ex on behalf 
of Mrs M is a contract which says Mrs M has agreed to buy 7755 of these units, and to 
pay £190 commission to Carbon-ex. However, the contract does not say when the 
credits were generated, and the project is described as unfccc id 93, but no such 
project appears to be registered with the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change (UNFCCC). So it would appear that the project isnt registered as the 
contract suggests.
There is also no price transparency  there is no independent source regarding the price 
being set, and nothing to confirm at what price Carbon-ex was acquiring the units or 
Carbon Credits. So there was no way to establish how the £4.90 price was being arrived 
at. The report obtained by Carey as to Carbon Credits says the trades are reflective of 
exchange prices but the exchange is not defined and it is not defined in Mrs Ms 
contract. There could have been a very significant difference between the price Carbon-
ex was paying for the units and the price it sold them to Mrs M. This is something Carey 
could have investigated.
Assuming that Mrs M would hold valid units or credits, there does not appear to be any 
measure of the quality of the credits in question. So were the units or credits being 
generated in India valid? Carbon-ex said the units met the VCS standard but I have not 
seen any independent verification of this. As discussed above, I have not seen evidence 
of a registration of the project with the UNFCCC. The lack of that registration would 
suggest that the relevant standard has not been met.
Whilst Carbon-ex said that such units or credits were liquid and could be readily sold 
(notwithstanding that the risk warning I have referred to set out that the holding might be 
difficult to sell), I have not seen that it was demonstrated by Carbon-ex that there was 
any ready market for Mrs Ms units. It was not demonstrated how Mrs M would find 
businesses to buy her small allocation of VERs.
At the time there was little confirmation that Mrs Ms SIPP was acquiring anything of any 
realisable value, whether the units existed or, if they did, whether they were being sold at 
inflated prices.
Carey submitted that carrying out the kind of assessment that would be required to 
establish and interrogate such factors as I have discussed and carry out appropriate due 
diligence, imposes on it requirements over and above its responsibilities as a SIPP 
provider. But Im satisfied these are the kind of things Carey needed to do when 
accepting Mrs Ms proposed investment to meet the regulatory obligations placed on it 
by the Principles. I dont agree that this amounts to a decision that Carey should have 
assessed the suitability of the Carbon Credits investment for Mrs Ms individual 
circumstances.Although I accept Carey did do some due diligence, this doesnt seem to have extended 
beyond looking at Carbon-exs website and marketing brochures and a report from a 
third party that was written over a year before Mrs Ms investment. The report also 
wasnt very detailed or conclusive. The due diligence therefore didnt cover all  or even 
a significant number of  the points Ive set out above. So Im satisfied that in these 
specific circumstances Carey didnt carry out due diligence at the time to satisfy its 
reasonable responsibilities as a SIPP provider.
if Carey had completed sufficient due diligence on the Mrs Ms Carbon Credit 
investment, what should it reasonably have concluded?
Carey submitted that even if it carried out the level of due diligence the previous 
ombudsman said it should, this wouldnt have revealed any reason not to accept the 
Carbon Credit investment. In these particular circumstances, I dont agree.
The previous ombudsman set out in her provisional decision the matters that due 
diligence would have revealed. And I have also discussed these matter above. I agree 
that these things should have caused Carey concern. And I dont agree those concerns 
are only with the benefit of hindsight.
It could be that the investment was/is legitimate and that Mrs M owns Carbon Credits. I 
also accept there technically there was a market for Carbon Credits. But its now been 
highlighted that it often wasnt possible to sell them even though there was a market for 
them. And in particular, there are reports that voluntary Carbon Credits arent actively 
traded and that buyers dont buy from private individuals. So although they technically 
worked as claimed, the reality was very different.
The FSA warning that the previous ombudsman highlighted in her provisional decision 
was published several months before Mrs Ms SIPP was set up and this made it clear 
that there may be issues with selling Carbon Credits. Im satisfied this is something 
Carey should have identified as part of its due diligence and the fact Mrs M might then 
have struggled to realise
 
the investment should have caused it concern  especially considering that almost all 
the money transferred (about £41,000) to the SIPP by Mrs M was invested in Carbon 
Credits. How would Mrs M be able to take benefits from her pension if the investment 
was difficult to value or realise?
Carey has previously said that not being able to independently value an investment 
wouldnt be indicative of its performance or legitimacy. But the investment was 
predicated on the Carbon Credits being sold for more than what was paid for them. And 
so I think there should have been concerns if it wasnt possible to independently value 
them. And if an independent valuation had been possible, its now been highlighted that 
voluntary Carbon Credits were sold at significantly inflated prices so it seems likely this 
would then have been identified.
Options should also have been aware that Mrs M was unlikely to benefit, in terms of the 
investment itself, from any regulatory protections (the investment being unregulated) 
such as access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme or this service.
In the circumstances, Im still satisfied there were a number of concerns Carey should 
have identified. It should have known there was a high chance of consumer detriment 
and it shouldnt have added the Carbon Credits to the list of permitted investments for 
Mrs Ms SIPP. By doing so, I still think it didnt act with due skill, care and diligence or treat Mrs M fairly.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that Carey should have assessed the suitability of 
the Carbon Credit investment for Mrs M. I accept Carey had no obligation to give advice 
to Ms M, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for her.
At the point Mrs Ms investment was arranged Carey would have been aware that she 
was investing the vast majority of her pension fund in an unregulated, esoteric and high 
risk investment which might be difficult to sell. I acknowledge that Carey wouldnt be 
aware whether that was the entirely of her pension savings because she may have had 
other benefits elsewhere. But it was an indicator of the kind of risk to which Mrs M was 
being exposed. It was also aware of the involvement of an unregulated business 
specialising in Carbon Credits which Mrs M had indicated was advising her to take out 
the investment.
These were red flags which should have caused Carey significant concern as to 
whether to allow Mrs M to hold that investment in her SIPP.
I am satisfied Carey could have identified the concerns I have mentioned, and ought to 
have drawn the conclusion I have set out, based on what was known at the time. Carey 
ought to have identified significant points of concern, and these ought to have led it to 
conclude it should not accept the Carbon Credit investment. It ought to have known 
there was a high risk of detriment to Mrs M.
in conclusion
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Carey acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mrs M fairly by accepting the 
investment in Carbon Credits or accepting the application for the SIPP. Carey didnt 
meet its regulatory obligations or the standards of good practice at the time, and it 
allowed Mrs Ms funds to be put at significant risk as a result.
did Carey act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mrs Ms instructions?
 
In my view, for the reasons given, Carey simply should have refused to accept Mrs Ms 
application. So things should not have got beyond that. Had Carey acted in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable in my view to 
conclude that it should not have accepted Mrs Ms application to open a SIPP or make 
the investment.
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Mrs M 
to sign risk or indemnity declarations was not an effective way for Carey to meet its 
regulatory obligations to treat her fairly, given the concerns Carey ought to have had 
about her introduction and the investment.
Having identified a risk, it is my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would be to 
refuse to accept the business and the investment in Carbon Credits  not put in place a 
process asking Mrs M to sign declarations in an attempt to absolve itself of 
responsibility. I dont think the declarations Mrs M signed meant that Carey could ignore 
its duty to treat her fairly.
Carey says its not fair and reasonable to say Mrs M  who invested after being told of 
the risks  wouldnt have invested if itd refused her application and investment. It says 
there were lots of ways she could have invested in Carbon Credits if itd rejected her 
business. And its most likely she would have gone ahead with the investment even if itd taken all the steps the ombudsman said it should have.
Ive considered this carefully, but I dont agree. Carey refusing to accept business and 
sharing the concerns that led to that decision would have likely meant that Mrs M would 
have acted very differently. This refusal would have tended to highlight the concerns with 
making such an investment. And in any event I do not believe it is reasonable to assume 
that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mrs Ms application, had it declined it. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Options should not compensate Mrs M for 
her loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have made the 
same mistakes as Ive found Carey did. I think its fair instead to assume that another 
SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the application or investment.
Carey also says Mrs M and other parties had contributed to her losses and so its not fair 
to hold it fully responsible. But Ive concluded Mrs M wouldnt have invested but for 
Careys failure to carry out sufficient due diligence. And in these circumstances, Im 
satisfied its fair to hold it responsible for the whole of the loss suffered. Im not asking it 
to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings.
Oher parties may have contributed to Mrs Ms losses. But NFAL was unregulated and 
was therefore reliant on Carey for access to Mrs Ms pension. As set out above, Im 
satisfied that Carey should have put a stop to the transactions and that the pension 
switch and investment wouldnt have gone ahead if itd treated Mrs M fairly and 
reasonably. Ive carefully considered Careys arguments about causation, contributory 
negligence, apportionment of damages and DISP 3.6.4. But in the circumstances here, 
Im still satisfied its fair for Carey to compensate Mrs M for her full loss.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mrs M suffering a significant loss to her 
pension.
And, my aim is therefore to return Mrs M to the pension position she would now be in but 
for Careys failings.
Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the 
position Mrs M would be in if she had not transferred from her existing pension. In 
summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs M has suffered as a result of making the switch and Carbon 
Credits investment.
2. Take ownership of the Carbon Credits investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mrs Ms pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr M direct. In either case the payment should take 
into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs M has suffered as a result of making the transferTo do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mrs Ms pension as at the date of 
my final decision, had she left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mrs M's former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had she not switched her pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining 
a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index 
should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of my final decision and this will show the loss Mrs M has suffered. The Carbon 
Credit investment should be assumed to have no value.
2. Take ownership of the Carbon Credit investment
Carey should take ownership of the Carbon Credit investment, for a nil consideration, if 
possible.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the Carbon Credit investment it should remain in 
the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant 
realisable value in the future. However, it would not be fair for Mrs M to have any 
ongoing fees to pay in relation to the SIPP. So, in the event Carey is unable to take 
ownership of the Carbon Credit investment (and it cant otherwise be removed from the 
SIPP), it should waive any fees associated with the SIPP, until such a time as the SIPP 
can be closed.
3. Pay compensation to Mrs M for loss she has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mrs M has suffered is within her pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of her pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mrs M could claim. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mrs Ms marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mrs M may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mrs M direct. But had it been possible to 
pay the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Mrs M should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mrs Ms marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if 
Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mrs M would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional 
allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs M has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of her pension 
benefits. This is money Mrs M cannot afford to lose and the difficulties she has faced in 
trying to sell an investment she otherwise should not have had would have added to her 
distress. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey 
receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP and intend to order it to pay fair compensation as set out above.
Copy of provisional decision 2
complaint
Mrs M complains that after being referred to Carey Pensions UK LLP (Carey) by an 
unregulated business called New Frontier Advisory Ltd, her pension was switched to 
Carey and then an investment was made into carbon credits. Mrs M now cant sell the 
carbon credits. She says Carey should compensate her for her loss.
background
Mrs M was contacted by an unregulated business called New Frontier Advisory. 
Following that contact she switched her pension to Carey and invested into carbon 
credits through
New Frontier Partnership Ltd and Carbon-ex SARL. Ive set out the various parties and 
relationships involved in detail below.
Carey
Carey is a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) provider and administrator. It was 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) at the time of the events complaints 
about  now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It was  and still is  authorised to 
arrange (bring about) deals in investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, 
operate and wind up a personal pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments.
New Frontier Advisory (New Frontier)
New Frontier was an unregulated business that specialised in trading in carbon credits. It 
said it wasnt a financial advisor but would introduce Mrs M both to carbon credits and a 
SIPP operator.
New Frontier received a winding up order in May 2014. The director of New Frontier was
Charles Denbigh. On 15 September 2015, Mr Denbigh was disqualified as a director for 
14 years. The Official Receiver in the Public Interest Unit said Mr Denbigh should have 
known that the carbon creditshis company was selling, and the price his company 
charged for those products, meant that they were wholly unsuitable as an investment.
Carbon-ex SARL
Carbon-ex SARL was registered in Luxembourg. It provided trading accounts which 
could be used for the buying and selling of carbon credits. The objective was to achieve long term capital growth through the buying and selling of these credits.
On 14 December 2011 Mrs M purchased £38,000 of voluntary carbon credits and paid 
£190 commission. Mrs M has since tried to sell her carbon credits but has been unable 
to do so.
New Frontier Partnership
New Frontier Partnership was an unregulated business. It was a marketing partner of 
Carbon-ex SARL. And its this business Mrs Ms carbon credits were purchased through.
New Frontier Partnership received a winding up order in February 2016  along with a 
number of similar businesses. At the time, the Company Investigations Supervisor in the 
Insolvency Service said This stoke of boiler rooms was one giant scam emitting the now 
all too familiar hot air on an industrial scale, persuading ordinary people to part with their 
hard earned savings to invest in near worthless voluntary carbon credits which were 
aggressively pedalled to them by these companies at significantly inflated prices.
 
Mrs Ms dealings with Carey and New Frontier
Mrs M says New Frontier contacted her by phone in October 2011. She says it told her 
about carbon credits and presented them as a major new way of investing for future 
growth. It called her back later and told her about a specific project which she agreed to 
invest in.
Mrs M says New Frontier then put her in touch with Carey. It said it knew Carey and had 
dealt with it in the past. But when she spoke to Carey it didnt recognise the investment 
and asked for more information. On 26 October 2011, Mrs M therefore emailed 
information about carbon credits to Carey. That information had initially been sent to her 
by New Frontier.
Carey says it looked into its records at that point and established itd already carried out 
due diligence on the investment. It therefore sent the relevant forms  including a SIPP 
application form  to Mrs M to be filled in.
The SIPP application form was dated 8 November 2011. This asked Mrs M to tick a box 
if shed received advice on the transfer of funds and if so, to provide the details of the 
individual whod provided that advice. Both the box and the section to fill in details of the 
individual were left blank. The form went on to say:
I understand that it is my sole responsibility to make decisions relating to the purchase, 
retention or sale of any investment held within the Carey Pension Scheme
I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd are not 
in anyway able to provide me with any advice.
I confirm that I am establishing the Carey Pension Scheme on an execution only basis.
The key facts and terms and conditions that were provided contained similar provisions. 
For example, the key facts said:
You can appoint an adviser or manage the investments yourself. You (or your adviser) 
must tell us what investments to make. We do not give advice.
And the terms and conditions said:We are not responsible for the investment decisions you make.
Carey then received a letter of authority from Mrs M dated 29 November 2011 which 
gave authority for information on her pension and investments to be passed to New 
Frontier.
On 8 December 2011 Mrs M signed a CARBONEX MEMBER DECLARATION & 
INDEMNITY provided to her by Carey. That said:
Iinstruct Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to Open an Account with Carbon-Ex to 
purchase and sell Carbon Credits for a consideration of £38,000 on my behalf for the 
above Scheme.
I am fully aware that this is investment is an Alternative type of Investment and may be 
High Risk and/or Speculative.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd 
act on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey Pensions UK LLP nor
Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
investment.
I confirm that I have taken appropriate advice in respect of this investment.
 
Mrs M then signed a CARBON CREDIT CONTRACT which was dated 14 December 
2011. That said:
All investments are speculative and will fluctuate in value. It should not be assumed that 
the value of investments will always rise. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of 
future results. You may get back less than the amount originally invested or even lose 
the full amount. You should carefully consider in light of your financial resources whether 
investing in Carbon Credits is suitable for you
There may be a big difference between the buying price and the selling price of 
Carbon Credits. If you have to sell them immediately, you may get back much less than 
you paid for them. You may have difficulty in selling Carbon Credits at the price you wish 
to achieve and, in some circumstances, it may be difficult to sell them at any price. It can 
be difficult to assess what would be a proper market price for these investments. You 
should not invest in Carbon Credits unless you have thought carefully about whether you 
can afford to do so and have taken appropriate independent advice.
Representations made by our sale consultants, agents or sales literature either orally, in 
paper or electronic form do not form part of these Terms. We give no warranty as to the 
future value of Carbon Credits.
Forwards, options and other derivative contracts in relation to Carbon Credits are 
regulated investments in the United Kingdom. However, Carbon Credits sold by 
Carbonex are not derivatives and, as such, are not regulated investments. Accordingly, 
Carbonex is not required to be regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) or 
any other regulator in the United Kingdom. This means, among other things, that a 
person buying Carbon Credits from Carbonex will not benefit from any protections 
afforded by the FSA and would not have access to the Financial Services Ombudsman 
or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.Later that day it was confirmed that the deal had been completed.
the relationship between Carey and New Frontier
Carey says its never had a relationship with New Frontier. It says the first 
communication it received from New Frontier was an email dated 28 November 2011 
which said Mrs M wanted to invest into carbon credits. There was then further 
communication about the forms that needed to be filled in. This included Carey sending 
an authority letter to New Frontier on 29 November 2011. The email that accompanied 
the form said:
This is an authority letter you can use for clients you are introducing to Careys, 
therefore, you will need to get them to complete the letter.
On 30 November 2011, Mrs M emailed the written authority  dated 29 November 2011 
 to Carey allowing Carey to deal with New Frontier. That email said:
my financial adviser [from New Frontier] has asked me to sign this form and email it to 
you to finalise the necessary paper work between us all.
Mrs Ms complaint
Mrs M complains that:
 Shes tried to sell her carbon credits but has been unable to do so. She wasnt told 
the carbon credits were a long-term investment. And she hasnt received any income 
from them.
 The investment wasnt suitable for individuals and Carey ought to have known this.
 Carey had a duty of care to her and shouldve carried out due diligence.
Careys position
Carey says:
 It didnt give Mrs M any advice  either in relation to the establishment of the SIPP 
or the underlying investment. It simply acts as the trustee and administrator of her 
SIPP. It acted on Mrs Ms instructions. And it received the SIPP application on an 
execution only basis. This is supported by its declaration of trust and the various 
SIPP documents.
 The member declaration Mrs M signed confirmed she understood Carey hadnt 
provided any advice and had acted on an execution only basis. Shed also 
confirmed shed taken appropriate financial advice.
 Because it hadnt given Mrs M any advice, it wasnt responsible for assessing the 
suitability of the investment for Mrs M.
 The member declaration and carbon credit contract Mrs M signed included relevant 
risk warnings about the investment. In particular, Mrs M confirmed she understood 
the investment she was making was high risk and speculative and that she might lose 
the full amount of the investment. It was made clear to Mrs M that she should carefully 
consider whether the investment was suitable for her. If New Frontier didnt tell Mrs M everything it shouldve done about the investment, 
thats New Frontiers responsibility and not something Carey is responsible for.
 New Frontier isnt  and has never been  an introducer of business to it.
 Due diligence had been carried out on the investment to determine that it wasnt 
taxable property and was a legitimate investment.
the adjudicators view
An adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied Carey 
hadnt given Mrs M advice and had acted on an execution only basis.
further information provided by Carey
We asked Carey to provide us with some further information. In response to our 
requests, it confirmed:
 Itd first become aware of this type of carbon credits when contacted by a business 
not connected to New Frontier on 14 October 2010 asking if they could be included in a 
Carey SIPP.
 At that time itd instructed a third party business to review whether the carbon 
credits could be held within a SIPP. A report was produced on 15 October 2010 
and was circulated with an email on 19 October 2010. That report concluded the 
investment was liquid; could be included in a SIPP; and was unlikely to attract any 
pension scheme tax charges.
 At that time itd also reviewed the information it could find about Carbon-ex. In 
particular, its website; its brochure; and its investment model. It says these 
appeared professional to it and gave a good overview of the business.
 
 On 25 October 2010 itd held an Investment Committee Meeting to decide whether 
to accept the investment. It decided to accept the investment provided that:
    Each customer investing in it completed an Alternative Investment Member 
Declaration and Indemnity that set out the risks.
    Where relevant, the customer adviser issued an Alternative Investment Adviser 
Notification Letter to set out that the investment had been discussed and the 
customer wanted to proceed.
    Its limitation of liability wording was added to all contracts and assignment 
documents.
   The acceptance of the investment was notified internally on 26 October 2010.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, I need to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
relevant considerations
There are a number of things of relevance to my decision about what is fair and 
reasonable in this case. In particular:
 The Principles for Businesses set out in the FCAs handbook.
 The September 2009 FSA report on the findings of a SIPP operator thematic 
review.
 The October 2012 FSA report on the findings of a SIPP operator thematic review.
 The October 2013 FCA SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
the Principles for Businesses
I think Principles 2, 3 and 6 are of particular relevance here:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 1.1.2G says:
The Principles are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the 
regulatory system.
 
And in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services 
Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the [Financial Ombudsman Service] would find it hard to fulfil its 
particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which 
find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are the essence of 
what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific 
rules.
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that 
the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot 
be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.So, when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, the 
factors I need to take into account are the requirements placed on Carey by the 
Principles, as these are relevant rules to be taken into account. And it follows I must 
consider whether Carey fairly and reasonably did enough to meet the regulatory 
obligations placed on it by the Principles.
the thematic review reports, guidance and Dear CEO letter
The regulators (the FSA and later the FCA) issued reports, guidance and a Dear CEO 
letter following the 2009 and 2012 thematic reviews of SIPP operators. Reports were 
issued in September 2009 and October 2012; guidance in October 2013; and the Dear 
CEO letter in July 2014.
Im satisfied these are all relevant here. They provide a reminder that the Principles 
apply and guidance about the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to produce the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
I accept the Dear CEO letter, and the September 2009 and October 2012 reports arent 
formal guidance  whereas the October 2013 guidance is. But this doesnt mean their 
importance should be underestimated. They contain the regulators thoughts on how 
regulatory obligations might be met, and therefore must be viewed as significant.
I dont accept any argument that the regulators standards changed over time. I 
recognise that some of these publications were made after the events subject to 
complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout. Careys regulatory 
obligations existed from the outset of Mrs Ms relationship with it. So the reports, letter 
and guidance  which each gave the regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP 
operator might take in practice to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles  
are each relevant considerations in this case. Some were issued after the events subject 
to complaint, but the regulations and Principles that underpin them existed throughout.
Its also clear from the text of the September 2009 and October 2012 reports and the 
July 2014 Dear CEO letter that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good practices into the conduct of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants 
understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators 
changed over time, its clear the standards themselves didnt change.
This doesnt mean deciding what is fair and reasonable involves only asking whether 
Carey did as the regulators suggested in those documents. The reports, letter and 
guidance gave non exhaustive guidance  they didnt say the suggestions given were 
the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, 
what should be done to meet such regulatory obligations is dependent on the 
circumstances. And it was ultimately for a business to decide for itself how to meet its 
regulatory obligations  it shouldnt have been reliant on the regulator to tell it what to do.
For the purposes of this decision, Ive only quoted selected parts of the publications 
which I think are of particular relevance. But I have considered them in their entirety.
The September 2009 report included the following:
We are concerned by a relatively widespread misunderstanding among SIPP operators 
that they bear little or no responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business that they 
administer, because advice is the responsibility of other parties, for example 
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs).We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 included 
clients.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to 
have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer 
detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs.
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
 Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
 Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
 Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and introduce 
clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
 Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the 
suitability of what was recommended.
 Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
The October 2012 report included the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states a firm must conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence on the investments held by their members or the introducers who use their 
schemes, to identify potential risks to their members or to the firms itself. In some firms 
this was made worse by an over-reliance on third parties to conduct due diligence on 
behalf of the operator. In some cases this has resulted in taxable investments being 
inadvertently held, and monies invested in potentially fraudulent investments.
The October 2013 guidance included the following:Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
 Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
 Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
 Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they 
are appropriate to deal with.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:

 using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non- 
regulated introducers
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and 
retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring 
introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension 
schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators 
should consider:

 periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
 having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and skills 
to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
 ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
 
 good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
 ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm.
And the Annex to the July 2014 Dear CEO letter included the following:
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Business requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. SIPP operators should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence, for example, assessing that 
assets allowed into a scheme are appropriate for a pension scheme. Our thematic 
review found that most SIPP operators failed to undertake adequate due diligence on 
high-risk, speculative and non- standard investments despite being aware of the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA) guidance originally published in 2012 which clarified 
our expectations of firm conduct.
Our review assessed due diligence processes in these five key areas:
 correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
 ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
 ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
 ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
 ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc.)
Please note that the due diligence necessary for individual investments may vary 
depending on the circumstances, and the five areas highlighted above are not 
exhaustive.
We found that most firms do not have the expertise or resources to assess this type of 
business, but were still allowing transactions to go ahead. This increases the risk that a 
pension scheme may become a vehicle for high risk and speculative investments that 
are not secure assets, many of which could be scams. It is not acceptable for firms to 
put consumers at risk this way.
Although our thematic review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important to 
note that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments.
Findings from our review included firms failing to:
 understand the nature of an investment, especially contracts for rights to future 
income, and sale and repurchase agreements
 check that money was being paid to legitimate businesses, and
  to independently verify that assets were real and secure, or that investment 
schemes operated as claimed
We found that, typically, firms had difficulty completing due diligence for non-standard 
overseas investment schemes where firms did not have access to local qualified legal 
professionals or accountants. Also, since the last review of SIPP operators, we noted an 
increase in the number of opaque investment structures, such as special purpose 
vehicles and limited companies, created to pool investment monies and finance other 
businesses. Firms had difficulty establishing where money was being sent, and whether 
underlying investment propositions were genuine.
We also found that many SIPP operators accepted investments into their schemes 
without adequate consideration of how investments could be valued or realised.
Finally, we found many firms continuing to rely on marketing and promotional material 
produced by investment providers as part of due diligence processes, despite previous 
guidance highlighting the need for independent assessment of investments.
what did Careys obligations mean in practice?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Carey should have thought carefully about:
 Whether accepting the business from New Frontier was treating its customer  Mrs 
M  fairly; taking reasonable care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence.
 Whether accepting the investment was treating its customer  Mrs M  fairly; taking 
reasonable care; and acting with due skill, care and diligence. And Im satisfied that 
shouldve gone further than simply checking the investment was allowed in a SIPP under 
HMRC rules.
To accept everything that came its way and ask its customer to accept warnings 
absolving it of the consequences wasnt enough. I therefore need to consider whether 
Carey gave enough thought to the nature of Mrs Ms referral to it and the investment that 
was being requested. And whether it ought to have been aware that the nature of the 
business and/or the nature of the investment meant it shouldnt accept it.
So in order to fairly and reasonably decide this case, I need to think about the nature of 
Mrs Ms referral to Carey and the nature of the investment she made. I need to decide 
what, acting fairly and reasonably, Carey should have concluded in relation to these.
the due diligence carried out by Carey on New Frontier  and what it should have 
done
I cant see that Carey carried out any due diligence on New Frontier. It also didnt have 
an introducer agreement in place with it.
Carey says this is because it didnt have a relationship with New Frontier and didnt take 
introductions from it. This may have been the general position. But on this occasion it 
took on business from Mrs M knowing that New Frontier had directed her to it. New 
Frontier therefore acted as an introducer to Carey on this occasion.
The September 2009 report was explicit in saying that its good practice for SIPP 
operators to have in place business agreements with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business. Taking everything into account, my view is that Carey shouldve put in place 
an agreement governing its relationship with New Frontier to clarify the responsibilities and limitations of New Frontier  for example, expressly recording that New Frontier 
shouldnt give advice.
Im also satisfied it shouldve carried out due diligence on New Frontier. This shouldve 
included understanding the nature of New Frontier and its work; what its business 
objectives were; the types of clients it dealt with; the levels of business it conducted; the 
types of investments it dealt with; and whether it used other SIPP operators.
if Carey had completed sufficient due diligence on New Frontier, what should it 
reasonably have concluded?
Had Carey carried out sufficient due diligence, its most likely it wouldve identified points 
of concern. The evidence shows that, at the time of proceeding with Mrs Ms 
instructions, Carey either knew, or ought to have known that:
 New Frontier Advisory wasnt regulated despite evidence to suggest that it was 
carrying out regulated activities by advising on the merits of switching from an 
existing pension to a SIPP. I say this because the email Mrs M sent Carey on 30 
November 2011 said my financial adviser [from New Frontier Advisory] has asked me 
to sign this form and email it to you to finalise the necessary paper work between us 
all. I also note that the member declaration Carey required Mrs M to sign said I 
confirm that I have taken appropriate advice in respect of this investment.
 New Frontier specialised in carbon credits. Carey itself had identified that this was 
an immature market with a limited and slightly chequered history and the FSA had 
identified that trading on these markets requires skill and experience. These 
investments were unlikely to be suitable for the majority of retail investors. And they 
were only likely to be suitable for a small element of the investment portfolio of a 
sophisticated investor.
 New Frontier Partnership had filed dormant company accounts (for the year up to 
31 July 2011) on 19 October 2011. These showed assets of £2.
 New Frontier Advisory hadnt filed any accounts at the point Mrs Ms investment 
was made. The first set of accounts it filed (for the year up to 31 August 2011) were 
subject to the small company accounts exemption and showed net current assets of 
only £15,451. On 13 December 2011  the day before Mrs M signed the carbon credit 
contract and her investment was made  a First Gazette notice for compulsory 
strike- off was published that said:
The REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES gives NOTICE that, unless cause is shown to the 
contrary, at the expiration of 3 months from the above date [13 December 2011] the 
name of
NEW FRONTIER ADVISORY LTD
will be struck off the register and the company will be dissolved.
These wouldve been significant concerns. And so Im satisfied Carey ought to have 
known Mrs Ms dealings with New Frontier were putting her at risk.
the due diligence carried out by Carey on the carbon credits investment  and 
what it should have done
Based on the information Carey has sent this service, it appears to have carried out limited due diligence on the investment itself. Other than looking at Carbon-exs website 
and marketing brochures, the only due diligence it carried out seems to have been a 
report from a third party that was written over a year before Mrs Ms investment.
The report isnt very detailed. It says its likely the investment would qualify for a SIPP 
but it isnt conclusive on this. Further, an email that was sent on 19 October 2010  after 
the report that had been carried out  said:
The interim investment commentary is attached for this one. I say interim as I must 
admit carbon credit trading is a completely new one to me. As far as I can tell, there do 
seem to be exchanges that will set the price for carbon credits although my sense is this 
is an immature market with a limited and slightly chequered history. Having said that, I 
cannot see any obvious reasons why it should not be allowed, however I will continue to 
do a bit more research generally.
This service hasnt been provided with any further research that was done.
Taking everything into account, I think the research Carey carried out and the report it 
commissioned were of limited value. And in my view, by relying on this research and 
report, Carey didnt meet its regulatory obligations and didnt act fairly or reasonably in 
its dealings with Mrs M.
In relation to the due diligence it should have carried out, my view is that it should  as a 
minimum  have:
 Identified the carbon credits project as a high-risk, speculative and non-standard 
investment, so it should have carried out more due diligence.
 Examined where Mrs Ms money was going  in other words, what type of carbon 
credits it was buying.
 Considered whether the investment was suitable for a pension scheme.
 Made sure the investment was genuine  in other words, not a scam or linked to 
fraudulent activity.
 Made sure the investment worked as claimed.
 Ensured that the investment could be independently valued, both at the point of 
purchase and subsequently.
 Ensured Mrs Ms SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment.
I accept Carey took some steps to meet its obligations. But I dont believe they were 
enough to satisfy all of these points.
if Carey had completed sufficient due diligence on the carbon credits, what should 
it reasonably have concluded?
Had Carey carried out sufficient due diligence, its most likely it wouldve identified points 
of concern. The evidence shows that, at the time of proceeding with Mrs Ms 
instructions, Carey either knew, or ought to have known that:
 The FSA had issued a consumer warning in relation to carbon credit trading on 3 August 2011. This said:
Whilst not all carbon credit trading schemes are a scam, it is often not made clear to 
investors that trading on these markets requires skill and experience.
You may lose money on your investment by not being able to sell, or at least get a 
competitive rate, when trading a small volume of carbon credits.
 Carbon-ex was nothing more than a platform. And it didnt know where Mrs Ms 
money was going to be going.
 Mrs Ms contract was for voluntary carbon credits. This market was unregulated 
and the credits werent traded on regulated exchanges.
 The investment was predicated on carbon credits being sold for more than what 
was paid for them. But theres no evidence that Carey asked questions to make sure 
they could be independently valued and there was a market for selling them. Its now 
been highlighted that voluntary carbon credits were sold at significantly inflated prices 
and it often wasnt possible to sell them. In particular, there are reports that voluntary 
carbon credits arent actively traded and that buyers dont buy from private individuals. 
Im satisfied this couldve been identified before Mrs Ms investment was made.
 The trading exchange Carbon-ex was quoted on had only been founded in 
December 2007.
 The company thatd been named on the investment when Carey carried out its due 
diligence in 2010 was Carbon-ex GMBH  based in Germany. The company Mrs M 
entered into the carbon credit contract with was Carbon-ex SARL  based in 
Luxembourg. Carbon-ex SARL only filed its incorporation documents on 1 October 2010. 
The fact it was based abroad was also an extra risk factor. And theres no evidence that 
Carey asked any questions that wouldve allowed it to weigh up the risk created.
If Carey had considered these points, Im satisfied it should reasonably have concluded 
the investment wasnt acceptable for Mrs Ms pension scheme  that is, it shouldnt have 
added it to the list of permitted investments for Mrs Ms SIPP. In particular:
 It wasnt clear there was  or ever would be  a market for the carbon credits Mrs M 
was buying. This would mean Mrs M might have struggled to realise the investment 
when she wanted to take benefits from her pension or make changes to it.
 The investment allowed Mrs Ms SIPP to become a vehicle for a high-risk and 
speculative investment that wasnt secure and might have been a scam.
Carey ought to have known there was a high chance of consumer detriment. And Im not 
persuaded Carey acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mrs M fairly by 
accepting the investment. Carey didnt meet its regulatory obligations, and it allowed Mrs 
Ms funds to be put at significant risk as a result.
did Carey act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mrs Ms instructions?
Ive thought carefully about whether Carey acted fairly and reasonably when it 
proceeded with the instructions Mrs M gave.
I accept Carey issued a number of warnings and disclaimers about the possible risks of 
the investment. And that it suggested Mrs M seek independent advice. But I dont think any of these warnings or disclaimers mean Carey now has no responsibility. I accept its 
possible Mrs M wouldve avoided the losses shes suffered if shed placed more weight 
on those warnings and/or taken advice. But the risk warnings werent an adequate 
substitute for Carey carrying out adequate due diligence and drawing reasonable 
conclusions from that. That wouldnt be a fair and reasonable conclusion in light of what 
Ive set out above.
Carey was the regulated entity here. And Carey was the expert. Mrs M wasnt. Carey 
ought to have had serious concerns about both New Frontiers business and the carbon 
credits Mrs M was investing in. And those concerns shouldve led Carey to conclude it 
shouldnt:
 accept business from New Frontier; or
 add the carbon credits investment to the list of permitted investments for Mrs Ms 
SIPP.
 
So Mrs M shouldnt have got to the point of signing disclaimers at all.
Whether or not Mrs M read the documentation she signed, it seems clear to me that she 
didnt understand it. Shes said It was my assumption when I signed with Carey pension 
UK, a fully government regulated company, I would be fully protected from any miss 
selling and that before any transfer was undertaken the qualifications and back ground 
and bank details of so claimed company would be fully undertaken.
So it seems likely Mrs M simply signed all the forms she was given without a full 
understanding of what they meant or the implications for her. Her willingness to do this 
does her no credit. With hindsight, it was clearly unwise for her to sign the documents. It 
was also unwise of Mrs M to respond to a call from a business previously unknown to 
her. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs Ms behaviour was dishonest  rather than 
unwise or careless.
Carey says it accepted Mrs Ms investment on an execution only basis and therefore it 
acted reasonably in executing her instructions. Ive thought about this carefully but I 
dont agree. In light of the conclusions Ive reached, I dont accept its argument that it 
had no choice but to follow her instruction.
overall conclusions
To be clear, Im not making a finding that Carey shouldve assessed the suitability of the 
investment or SIPP for Mrs M. I accept Carey had no obligation to give advice to Mrs M, 
or otherwise ensure the suitability of the pension product or investment for her.
For the reasons set out above, my finding is that Carey didnt meet its regulatory 
obligations. If it had done, Im satisfied it:
 Shouldnt have accepted the business from New Frontier.
 Shouldve concluded the carbon credits investment wasnt acceptable for Mrs Ms 
pension scheme.
It then shouldnt have accepted Mrs Ms application to open a SIPP with it to make the 
carbon credits investment.
In the circumstances, its my view that it failed to treat Mrs M fairly or act with due skill, care and diligence or take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly.
causation
If Carey had told Mrs M that it wouldnt accept business from New Frontier or the carbon 
credits investment, I think there are three possibilities:
 Mrs M wouldve decided to do nothing and wouldve left her pension where it was. 
In that case, she wouldnt have suffered losses as a result of making the investment.
 Mrs M wouldve asked New Frontier to go ahead anyway, and placed the business 
through a different SIPP operator.
 Mrs M wouldve gone elsewhere, and arranged the pension switch (and 
subsequent investment) through a third party.
For the reasons I explain below, Im satisfied if Carey had treated Mrs M fairly, its much 
more likely than not that she wouldve decided not to go ahead with the investment, and 
would not have suffered the losses she did.
 
what would Mrs M have done if Carey hadnt accepted the business?
If Carey hadnt allowed the introduction from New Frontier or the investment, Mrs M 
wouldnt have been able to invest in the carbon credits unless shed found another way 
to do this. If Carey had told Mrs M that its concerns meant it wasnt prepared to deal with 
New Frontier at all, I think that wouldve led Mrs M to question what New Frontier had 
told her. And, as Carey was the regulated entity, I think shed have taken its refusal to 
deal with New Frontier as a reason for her not to have any further dealings with it either. 
So, if Carey had done what it shouldve done, Im satisfied Mrs M would also have 
chosen to terminate her own relationship with New Frontier. In the circumstances here, I 
consider its unlikely that Mrs M wouldve sought help from a third party to make the 
investment.
the involvement of other parties
I accept that Carey isnt responsible for initiating the course of action thats led to Mrs 
Ms loss. It was New Frontier, not Carey, who originally contacted Mrs M. And Mrs M 
had already made the decision to invest before she approached Carey. But New Frontier 
was unregulated and was therefore reliant on Carey for access to Mrs Ms pension.
I consider that Carey failed unreasonably to put a stop to the transactions when it 
shouldve done. If Carey had treated Mrs M fairly and reasonably, then the pension 
switch and associated investment wouldnt have gone ahead.
Im satisfied that given the specific circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint, itd be fair and 
reasonable to make an award. This is notwithstanding any arguments about a break in 
the chain of causation and the remoteness of the loss from Careys errors. Had it not 
been for Careys failure to carry out sufficient due diligence into New Frontier and carbon 
credits, Mrs M wouldnt have invested. And I consider that Carey completely disregarded 
her interests.
As a direct result of Careys actions, Mrs M invested her pension into a specialised, 
unregulated investment with a limited track record. As a result, Im satisfied that its fair 
and reasonable to hold Carey responsible for the whole of the loss suffered by Mrs M.Im not asking Carey to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which 
Im not able to determine. However, that fact shouldnt impact on Mrs Ms right to 
compensation from Carey for the full amount of her loss.
If Carey believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it should be 
free to pursue those other parties. And if Mrs M is compensated in full now, Carey 
(rather than Mrs M) should benefit from any future payments that might be made in 
relation to the investment. So compensation payable to Mrs M should be contingent on 
the assignment by her to Carey of any rights of action she may have against other 
parties in relation to her switch to the SIPP and the investment. It should also be 
contingent on Mrs M undertaking to give to Carey any future payment she might receive 
in relation to the investment.
fair compensation
As set out above, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to hold Carey responsible for the 
whole loss Mrs M suffered in relation to her carbon credits investment. And Im satisfied 
it should therefore put her as close as possible to the position she would probably now 
be in if she hadnt invested in carbon credits.
Im therefore currently planning to require Carey to:
 Obtain the notional transfer value of Mrs Ms previous pension plan on the date of 
calculation if it hadnt been transferred to the Carey SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return Index) should be used as Im satisfied thats a reasonable 
proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved if suitable funds had been 
chosen.
Its to be assumed that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still 
have occurred and on the same dates.
 Compare the notional transfer value of Mrs Ms previous pension (or the fair value 
calculated by the benchmark) with the actual value of the carbon credits 
investment. In this case the actual value of the carbon credits investment should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
 Pay a commercial value to buy Mrs Ms carbon credits. This can then be deducted 
from the above compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of the investment in carbon credits. I think itd be best if 
the carbon credits investment could be removed from the SIPP. Mrs M would then be 
able to close the SIPP, if she wishes. That would allow her to stop paying the fees for 
the SIPP. Ideally therefore, Carey should assess a commercial value for the carbon 
credits and take ownership of the investment.
If its unable to buy Mrs Ms carbon credits, it shouldnt make any deduction from the 
above compensation. It will also then need to pay any future fees for the SIPP until the 
SIPP can be cancelled. It may wish to require that Mrs M provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP. Carey will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
 Pay Mrs M interest of 8% simple a year on the above compensation from the date 
of the decision to the date compensation is paid  if compensation isnt paid within 28 
days of Carey being notified of acceptance.
 Increase the SIPP value by the total amount of the above compensation, allowing 
for any available tax relief and/or costs.
If its unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Ms SIPP, it should pay the compensation as 
a cash sum to Mrs M. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ms marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. For example, if Mrs M is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic 
rate of tax. However, if Mrs M would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
 Refund to Mrs M any fees or charges shes paid from money other than what she 
transferred into the SIPP  together with interest of 8% simple a year, from the date 
the fees were paid to the date compensation is paid.
 Pay Mrs M £500 for the trouble and upset shes been caused. Im satisfied the loss 
of her pension had a significant impact on her and is something she  understandably 
 found stressful and upsetting.
 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Carey deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Carey should give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my provisional decision
Im currently planning to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Carey Pensions UK LLP to 
pay fair compensation as set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not received any further submissions from the parties to the complaint.
I would refer the parties to the provisional decision for the full reasoning as to why I 
believed the complaint should be upheld. I have not received any further submissions from 
the parties to the complaint and Im not persuaded that I should depart from the overall 
conclusions I reached in the provisional decision. As a result, I set out a summary of my 
main findings including any clarification needed having reconsidered all the available 
evidence.The Principles and regulatory publications
I set out in the provisional  decision  the relevant  Principles  and regulatory  publications  I had 
taken  into account  in considering  whether  Carey  had complied  with its regulatory  
obligations,  to act with due skill, care and diligence,  to take reasonable  care to 
organise  its business  affairs  responsibly  and effectively,  to pay due regards  to the 
interests  of its customers,  to treat them  fairly,  and to act honestly,  fairly  and 
professionally.
I accepted  that Carey  didnt  give Mrs M advice  but I was satisfied  that it should  
have  thought  carefully  about:
Whether  accepting  the business  from NFAL  was treating  its customer-  Mrs M - 
fairly;  taking  reasonable  care;  and acting  with due skill, care and diligence.
Whether  accepting  the Carbon  Credits  investment  was treating  its customer  - Mrs M - 
fairly;  taking  reasonable  care;  and acting  with due skill, care and diligence.
I also note that in other cases considered by this service, Options has submitted that 
Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474 (Adams), should be 
taken into account.
So, to clarify, I confirm I have taken into account the judgment of the High Court and 
Court of Appeal in respect of Adams, particularly in the context of the application of the 
Principles and COBS2.1.1R.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles 
apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this 
means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken 
account of both judgments when making this decision on Mrs Ms case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of 
FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP 
had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ 
Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an 
entirely new case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R 
alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in Mrs Ms complaint. The breaches were 
summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ 
Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options 
SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case 
were also different.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments 
in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal 
pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mrs M on the suitability of its SIPP or the Carbon Credits 
investment for her personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding 
whether to accept particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept 
introductions of business from particular businesses.
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court 
of Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the grounds of 
appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case and 
therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, if 
permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now.
The due diligence carried out by Carey on NFAL
In summary, in the provisional decision I set out that:
Carey  should  have  known  about  the involvement  of NFAL.  And it should  
have  obtained  a full understanding  of its business  model,  satisfied  itself  
that it would  not be carrying  out regulated  activities  and put a clear  
agreement  in place  between  it and NFAL,  ensuring  careful  thought  was 
given  to the risk generally  posed  to consumers  by the introducer.  Carey  
should  have  undertaken  a reasonable  level  of due diligence  on NFAL
NFAL  wasn't  regulated  to give pensions  or investment  advice  or carry  on 
any other  regulated  activities  - but the evidence  suggested  that it was 
carrying  out regulated  activities  by advising  on the merits  of switching  from 
an existing  pension  to a SIPP.  Carey  would  have  likely  discovered  that it 
was giving  advice  to Mrs M, and this is how she viewed  the situation,  if it 
had undertaken  a reasonable  level  of due diligence.
If Carey  had undertaken  a reasonable  level  of due diligence  on NFAL,  it 
would  have  been  presented  with an image  of a small  immature  company  
which  seemingly  could  not manage  its affairs  appropriately.
Carey  should  have  had significant  concerns  about  NFAL.  In particular,  
through  a reasonable  level  of due diligence,  it would  have  discovered  that 
this was an unregulated  introducer  with a limited  track  record,  providing  
advice  to Mrs M and specialising  in unregulated  high-risk  Carbon  Credit  
investments.
Bearing  that in mind  I was satisfied  that Carey  ought  to have  known  Mrs M's 
dealings  with NFAL  were  putting  her at risk of detriment  and I remain  of that view.The due diligence carried out by Carey on the Carbon Credit investment and what 
it should have concluded
In the provisional decision I set out that Carey should have undertaken a reasonable level 
of due diligence in respect of the Carbon Credit investment.
To clarify, I accept that on the face of it, it could be argued that a carbon credit investment 
could be a legitimate investment. However, I think the fair and reasonable conclusion, 
based on what Carey knew or ought to have reasonably known at the time is that it should 
not have accepted Mrs Ms application to invest in carbon credits. In my opinion, it ought to 
have concluded that it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations or best 
practice to do so.
The reasons Ive reached that conclusion are set out in the provisional decision and can 
be summarised as follows;
Carey had received information to the effect that this was an, immature market 
with a limited and slightly chequered history and that such investments were 
unlikely to be appropriate for the majority of retail investors and then only likely 
suitable for a small element of an investment portfolio for the sophisticated 
investor.
Mrs Ms actual carbon credit investment contract set out that the investment 
may be difficult to value, difficult to sell or not possible to sell at any price.
That, based on the evidence, there was doubt about the validity of Mrs Ms 
Carbon Credit contract  bearing in mind the lack of certainty as to when the 
credits were generated, what standard the carbon credits were meeting and the 
fact that project was not registered as suggested by the contract.
There was a lack of price transparency  a lack of evidence as to how the 
price of Mrs Ms Carbon Credits was being arrived at and on what exchange.
In essence,  at the time there  was little confirmation  that Mrs M's SIPP  
was acquiring  anything  of any realisable  value,  whether  the units  
existed  or, if they did, whether  they were  being  sold at inflated  prices.
Carey should have had concerns about the legitimacy of the investment, 
whether it could be independently valued, the risk that prices were inflated and 
whether Mrs M could in future realise the value (if any value) of her carbon 
credits. It should have taken into account that this was an unregulated 
investment in which the majority of Mrs Ms pension value was being invested. 
And she was being introduced by, as discussed, an unregulated business 
specialising carbon credits.
Consequently my view remains that it should have been apparent to Carey that it should 
not accept the introduction from NFAL or the investment in Carbon Credits. It should have 
been clear to Carey that by doing so there was a high risk of detriment for Mrs D.
Bearing this in mind and that I have not received any further submissions, having 
reviewed the complaint I would confirm that my decision remains that the complaint should 
be upheld for the reasons discussed in this decision and my provisional decision.Putting things right
I am satisfied  that Carey's  (now  Options  UK Personal  Pensions  LLP)  failure  to 
comply  with its regulatory  obligations  and industry  best practice  at the relevant  time 
have  led to Mrs M suffering  a significant  loss to her pension  and it is fair to ask 
Carey  to compensate  Mrs M.
My aim is therefore  to return  Mrs M to the pension  position  she would  now be in but 
for Carey's  failings.
I therefore  order  Options  UK Personal  Pensions  LLP to calculate  fair compensation  by 
comparing  the current  position  to the position  Mrs M would  be in if she had not 
transferred  from her existing  pension.  In summary,  I order  Options  UK Personal  
Pensions  LLP should:
1.Calculate  the loss Mrs M has suffered  as a result  of making  the switch  
and Carbon  Credits  investment.
2.
3.Take  ownership  of the Carbon  Credits  investment  if possible.
4.Pay compensation  for the loss into Mrs M's pension.  If that is not possible  
pay compensation  for the loss to Mr M direct.  In either  case  the payment  
should  take into account  necessary  adjustments  set out below.
5.Pay £500  for the trouble  and upset  caused.
I'll explain  how I order  Options  should  carry  out the calculation  set out at 1-3 above  in 
further  detail  below:
1. Calculate  the loss Mrs M has suffered  as a result  of making  the transfer
To do this, I order  Options  to work  out the likely  value  of Mrs M's pension  as at 
the date of my final decision,  had she left it where  it was instead  of switching  to 
the SIPP.
Options  should  ask Mrs M's former  pension  provider  to calculate  the current  
notional  transfer  value  had she not switched  her pension.  If there  are any difficulties  
in obtaining  a notional  valuation  then the FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income  Total  
Return  index  should  be used  to calculate  the value.  That is likely  to be a reasonable  
proxy  for the type of return  that could  have  been  achieved  if suitable  funds  had 
been  chosen.
The notional  transfer  value  should  be compared  to the transfer  value  of the 
SIPP  at the date of my final decision  and this will show  the loss Mrs M has 
suffered.  The Carbon  Credit  investment  should  be assumed  to have  no value.
2. Take  ownership  of the Carbon  Credit  investment
Options  should  take ownership  of the Carbon  Credit  investment,  for a nil 
consideration,  if possible.
If Options  is unable  to take ownership  of the Carbon  Credit  investment  it should  
remain  in the SIPP.  I think  that is fair because  I think  it is unlikely  it will have  any 
significant  realisable  value  in the future.  However,  it would  not be fair for Mrs M to have  any ongoing  fees to pay in relation  to the SIPP.  So, in the event  Options  is 
unable  to take ownership  of the Carbon  Credit  investment  (and it can't  otherwise  be 
removed  from the SIPP),  it should  waive  any fees associated  with the SIPP,  until 
such  a time as the SIPP  can be closed.
3. Pay compensation  to Mrs M for loss she has suffered  calculated  in (1)
Since  the loss Mrs M has suffered  is within  her pension  it is right that I try to 
restore  the value  of her pension  provision  if that is possible.  So if possible  the 
compensation  for the loss should  be paid into the pension.  The compensation  
shouldn't  be paid into the pension  if it would  conflict  with any existing  protection  or 
allowance.  Payment  into the pension  should  allow  for the effect  of charges  and 
any available  tax relief.  This may mean  the compensation  should  be increased  to 
cover  the charges  and reduced  to notionally  allow  for the income  tax relief  Mrs M 
could  claim.  The notional  allowance  should  be calculated  using  Mrs M's marginal  
rate of tax.
On the other  hand,  Mrs M may not be able to pay the compensation  into a pension.  If
so compensation  for the loss should  be paid to Mrs M direct.  But had it been  
possible  to pay the compensation  into the pension,  it would  have  provided  a 
taxable  income.  Therefore,  the compensation  for the loss paid to Mrs M should  be 
reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income  tax that would  otherwise  have  been  
paid.  The notional  allowance  should  be calculated  using  Mrs M's marginal  rate of 
tax in retirement.  For example,  if Mrs M is likely  to be a basic  rate taxpayer  in 
retirement,  the notional  allowance  would  equate  to a reduction  in the total amount  
equivalent  to the current  basic  rate of tax. However,  if Mrs M would  have  been  
able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the notional  allowance  should  be applied  to 75% 
of the total amount.
4. Pay £500  for the trouble  and upset  caused.
Mrs M has been  caused  some  distress  and inconvenience  by the loss of her 
pension  benefits.  This is money  Mrs M cannot  afford  to lose and the difficulties  
she has faced  in trying  to sell an investment  she otherwise  should  not have  had 
would  have  added  to her distress.  I consider  that a payment  of £500  is 
appropriate  to compensate  for that upset.
Interest
The compensation  must  be paid as set out above  within  28 days  of the date 
Options  receives  notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision.  Interest  must  
be added  to the compensation  amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the 
date of my final decision  to the date of settlement  if the compensation  is not paid 
within  28 days
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP should calculate and pay compensation as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman