DRN-3688912
The complaint
Miss B, who is represented by her mother, says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D 
Williams), trading as Ambrose Wilson, irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the 
interest and late payment charges she paid on her accounts be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about five shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Miss B. But I 
will only be looking at three of them because two were not used. The accounts I am looking 
at in this decision are as follows:
- Account A (ending 522) was opened in November 2013 with Miss B being given an 
initial credit limit of £175. This limit was increased 5 times until it reached £1,250 in 
December 2014. The account debt was sold on to a third party in October 2016.
- Account B (ending 489) was opened in February 2020 with Miss B being given an 
initial credit limit of £175. This limit was increased 7 times until it reached £2,250 in 
June 2020. 
- Account C (ending 045) was opened in November 2021 with Miss B being given an 
initial credit limit of £100. There were no further increases. 
Miss B says shes unhappy that J D Williams granted her the credit and then continued to 
increase her credit limit on each of the accounts.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought 
to have realised Miss B wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the 
time it offered Miss B the sixth credit limit increase on Account B in February 2021. It 
followed that our adjudicator also upheld Account C in its entirety.  
J D Williams accepted our adjudicators findings. It has now said that it has refunded the 
interest and fees that are due. But Miss B and her mother have disputed the interest and 
fees that J D Williams says it ought to refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
B could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Miss B with any additional credit from February 2021. 
Ive therefore looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with Miss B, 
with a view to seeing if there was a different point  or any point at all - at which J D 
Williams should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean J D Williams should have 
realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Bs credit limits.
Miss B says that J D Williams should not have granted her these accounts or gone on to  
increase her credit limits. She also says the impact of not being to meet the required 
payments has worsened the medical conditions she already had when J D Williams 
granted her each of these accounts. 
Account A
Before opening the account I think J D Williams gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss B about her ability to repay. I say this because it completed a 
credit check which showed no significant adverse information. On balance, whilst I think it 
would have been proportionate for an income check to be carried out, I cant see evidence or 
information to suggest that the account might have been unaffordable for Miss B and that J 
D Williams therefore ought not to have approved it. 
Unfortunately, Miss B hasnt been able to provide us with copies of her bank statements 
for  2013 and 2014, covering the opening of Account A and the five credit limit increases 
that followed. Ive seen that Miss B missed payments in December 2013 and January 
2014. But given that they were of relatively low value and she subsequently had zero 
balance on her account in February 2014, I agree with our adjudicator that on balance she was managing her account well. Ive also seen that Miss B had missed another 
payment in September that year and then made a small underpayment in November 2014 
and then again later in January 2015. But given that she met her other payments and was 
keeping within the account limits, Id still say the overall picture is that she was adequately 
managing her credit at around this time. I think J D Williams ought to have taken steps to 
verify her monthly income for each of the increases going forwards form June 2014. 
However, without details of her monthly expenditure Im not able to say that had it done 
so it would have seen that Miss Bs overall financial situation might have been 
deteriorating. 
It follows that I dont think J D Williams acted unfairly in granting Miss B this account and 
the subsequent credit limit increases. 
Account B
For Account B, I agree that given Miss B previously had a J D Williams account where the 
debt was sold to a third party, it would have been proportionate for it to have completed 
better checks, including verifying Miss Bs income at that time. This could have been done, 
for example by obtaining bank statement information. But based on the evidence Ive seen 
from the time, including Miss Bs bank statements, I dont think theres enough to suggest 
that the opening of the account shouldnt have been approved, especially taking into account 
that once again the opening balance was relatively low. 
Looking at the credit limit increases, I agree with our adjudicator that J D Williams could 
have carried out better checks before agreeing the increased credit limits, checking Miss 
Bs income for the first two and additionally checking her financial situation for the next 
three increases. 
I also agree that by the time the credit limit was increased to £1,900 in February 2021, it 
appears likely that Miss B was getting into difficulty. This is supported by the bank 
statements weve seen showing that in November and December 2020 and January 
2021, Miss B was beginning to make increasing use of her overdraft, with transfers in 
from her mother helping to bring the account back into credit. So I think its right that J D 
Williams ought to have checked Miss Bs financial situation at this point and had it done 
so I dont think it was responsible or affordable to grant this further increase. I say this 
having also seen that in February 2021 Miss B made an underpayment on her account, 
further suggesting that her financial situation was deteriorating.
Account C
It follows that, as account C was opened in November 2021, I also think that Miss B lost out 
because J D Williams provided her with this further credit, given that I agree that the 
February 2021 increase ought not to have been granted on Account B and I havent seen 
evidence to suggest that Miss Bs finances had improved by that point. 
J D Williams should therefore put things right in the way Ive set out below. 
Did J D Williams act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss B and her representative are unhappy with details about the compensation that J D 
Williams will be paying. Ive reviewed the correspondence  J D Williams sent Miss B 
following our adjudicators view letter on the complaint. Ive also seen a breakdown of the 
interest and late payment charges that J D Williams intended to refund to Miss B. Our 
adjudicator has explained the calculation to Miss B and her mother. In particular, he has 
explained that we would only expect J D Williams to refund interest and fees for those 
periods when the account balance went above £1,250 (being the credit limit in place before the later credit limit increase up to £1,900 in February 2021. Whilst I am sorry to hear that 
Miss B and her mother are unhappy with the level of compensation that has been offered, 
given that I consider the point at which our adjudicator found that the complaint should be 
upheld from is correct, there is nothing further that I am requiring J D Williams to do, beyond 
ensuring that all compensation has been paid in accordance with the Putting things right 
section below. 
I would however urge J D Williams to ensure that it continues to act with understanding and 
forbearance in seeking to the recover outstanding sums from Miss B.
I see that J D Williams have confirmed that no further orders can be made and that the credit 
limit on the account has been removed. 
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Miss Bs account to ensure that from 24 February 2021 onwards 
interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1,250 for 
Accounts 2 and 3 , including any buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit 
in place before that date for Account 1) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Miss B to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Miss B has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file 
from 24 February 2021 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Miss 
Bs credit file from 24 February 2021 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited is required to put things right in the way Ive set out above if it has not done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman