DRN-2277519
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that there was a delay in Revolut Ltd crediting a payment to his bank 
account.
What happened
In July 2019, a payment was sent to Mr M from abroad. Mr M contacted Revolut because it 
wasnt credited to his account. After repeated contact, Revolut said that the funds had 
reached its systems but Mr M should contact the sender as it had arrived in the wrong form.
As the money still hadnt arrived, Mr M complained to Revolut. It said the money hadnt 
reached its systems and that Mr M should go back to the originating bank and get it to recall 
the transfer. The money was credited to Mr Ms account in mid-August 2019.
Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there 
wasnt any evidence that Revolut was responsible for the delay in the money reaching Mr 
Ms account.
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr M said Im issuing this as a provisional decision because of the amount of new 
information that Mr P will not have had the opportunity to see or comment on, as this means 
he can if he wants to do so.
Given the amount of time that it took for Mr M to receive the money, I can understand that 
this was a very concerning time for him. Mr M was given different explanations for why the 
money hadnt been credited to his account and I can see that this would have added to his 
concerns about where the money was.
I asked Revolut a range of questions to try and understand exactly what happened. As a 
result, Ive seen evidence of the date that Revolut received the money and this showed that 
it was mid- August. Ive looked at the relevant holding account and there are no payments 
listed there for Mr M during the period in question, so I dont think that the money was sat in 
an account waiting to be credited to him. Ive also seen evidence that the money was 
credited to Mr Ms account shortly after it was received. So, on that basis, I think that it is 
most likely that the first time Revolut received the money was mid-August and that it then 
transferred the money to Mr Ms account.
Ive also thought about what Revolut told Mr M before the money was credited to his 
account. Revolut initially said that the money hadnt been received and that Mr M should wait 
for a few days. Revolut then said that Mr M should contact the sending bank to try and find 
the money. Revolut then told Mr M that the money had been received but in the wrong 
format and that he would need to contact the sending bank to fix this. Revolut has since told 
this service that it was a mistake when it told Mr M that it had received the money. It said this 
happened because, due to a typo, Mr Ms records said that the money had been received, 
when they should have said that the money hadnt been received. Having thought about this, 
Im concerned that due to a typo Mr M seems to have been given incorrect information 
about where his money was. This gave him a false understanding of the situation and at a 
time when he was urgently trying to find out where the money was and when it would arrive 
in his account. I dont think that is very satisfactory. Nonetheless, having looked at the wider 
details of this case, I think that a typo is the only likely explanation for why Revolut told Mr M 
that it had received the money when it now seems that it hadnt. 
Ive also thought about whether the above made a difference to how quickly the money was 
received and dealt with by Revolut and I dont think that it did. Whether the money hadnt 
been received at all or had been received but in a format that meant that it couldnt be 
credited to Mr Ms account, the way to deal with this was for Mr M to contact the sending 
bank. So, I think that Revolut was correct to tell Mr M to contact the sending bank, even if 
the reason it gave may not have been entirely correct.
It was only after the payment had been credited to Mr Ms account that Revolut commented 
on what had been filled out on the payment instruction to transfer the money. It said that the 
some of the fields on the form included incorrect information, such as a nickname rather than 
Mr Ms actual name. I think that this added to the confusion of what happened and why, but I 
dont think that it is directly relevant to the key issue, which is when Revolut received the 
money and credited it to Mr Ms account. As I have already said above, I think its more likely 
than not that, on balance of the evidence Ive seen from both sides, that Revolut received 
the money in mid-August and credited the money to Mr Ms account shortly after receiving it.
However, Im aware that this doesnt answer the question of why the money took so long to 
be credited to Mr Ms account. Unfortunately, I dont think that its possible to provide a 
satisfactory answer to this. Thats because, in this instance, there seem to have been at 
least three banks involved, the bank that sent the money, an intermediary bank, which 
received the money from the sending bank and then passed it on to Revolut, and Revolut 
itself. I only have the power to consider the complaint against Revolut here  I cant reach a 
decision on any of the other banks involved. Although I have considered any evidence 
provided by the other banks in the course of this dispute insofar as it relates to this dispute 
with Revolut.
Mr M said that he was told by the sending bank that the money had arrived at the 
intermediary bank. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr M was told this, but in considering the 
complaint against Revolut here  the evidence leads me to decide that it credited the money 
to Mr M in a prompt way. I simply dont know what happened with the other banks, as the 
information here is limited and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to speculate.
So, having thought about all of the above, I currently think its more likely than not that 
Revolut received the money in mid-August and then credited it to Mr Ms account. I think that 
Revolut gave Mr M wrong information when it was trying to track down the money, but 
ultimately the advice that it gave, to contact the sending bank, was correct. So I dont think 
that this is likely to have added to the amount of time that it took for the money to be credited 
to Mr M. On that basis, although I think that Revolut made a mistake in its advice to Mr M, I 
think that it credited the money to Mr M at the earliest opportunity and that the reasons for 
the delay in the money being received werent down to Revolut. I therefore dont currently 
intend to uphold this complaint or require Revolut to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 9 October 2020.Mr M said that on many occasions he had successfully transferred money and hadnt used 
the persons correct name, but used a nickname instead. He had also successfully received 
money from others where his full name hadnt been used. He said Revolut should be fined 
and charged accordingly and that Revolut knew where the money was but kept saying it 
couldnt be located.
Revolut said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Ms comments that he provided in response to my provisional decision and I 
fully accept that he has strong views about his money going missing. Im sure that it was a 
very concerning time for him, including because it was a large amount of money and was 
needed for a specific purpose. However, I remain of the view that its more likely than not 
that Revolut first received the money in mid-August and then credited it to Mr Ms account. 
I can understand, given that Mr M hadnt had this problem before and the changing advice 
that he was given by Revolut, that he might think Revolut were the source of the problem 
with receiving the money. But I havent found evidence that shows that it was down to the 
actions of Revolut.
Im also aware that Mr M thinks that we should fine or charge Revolut over what happened. 
We look at individual complaints to determine what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  We cannot fine or punish a business. The Financial Conduct Authority is 
the regulator and has the ability to issue fines or apply sanctions.
So, having considered the details of this case again, including Mr Ms further comments, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman