DRN-3669624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Pc failed to correctly record that a personal loan 
was settled on their credit files. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H opened a personal loan with HSBC in 2015 and repaid it by refinancing the 
debt to another loan in April 2019. 
Mr and Mrs H have told us they experienced difficulties securing new credit from that date 
and recently found that the original loan remained open and active on their credit file despite 
being repaid. Mr and Mrs H have explained the loan was showing as in arrears and went on 
to raise a complaint with HSBC. 
HSBC issued a final response but didnt agree it had reported incorrect information to any of 
the credit reference agencies. HSBC also said there was no trace of a query from one of the 
credit reference agencies in around April 2019. 
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They didnt find information that showed HSBC has mistakenly reported the original loan as 
open on Mr and Mrs Hs credit file. Mr and Mrs H asked to appeal, so their complaint has 
bene passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain that in this decision I can only comment on HSBCs actions. I cant 
comment on any associated complaints Mr and Mrs H may have. But I understand that Mr 
and Mrs H feel somewhat caught between two businesses, neither of which accepts 
responsibility for the information reported. 
HSBCs sent us evidence from its systems that shows the information its reported to the 
credit reference agencies. And the information shows that the original loan is reported as 
being repaid in April 2019 and marked as settled. I understand Mr and Mrs H found an open 
loan with associated missed payments on one of their credit file. But HSBCs records are 
clear in showing what information its reported to all the credit reference agencies. And it 
shows the loan was settled in April 2019 with no arrears. 
Theres some discussion about whether the reference numbers used have impacted the 
information recorded. But the reference numbers appear consistent between the reports 
made to each of the three credit refence agencies. I havent seen anything that shows HSBC 
reported duplicate loans with different references or that it failed to note the original loan was 
settled in April 2019. 
I realise this decision doesnt resolve Mr and Mrs Hs concerns or explain how the duplicate 
entry was noted. Im sorry I havent been able to give a conclusive answer. But, as Ive noted 
above, Im satisfied the information on file doesnt show any evidence of incorrectly reported 
commitments by HSBC. As Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr and Mrs Hs complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman