DRN-3960094
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as C, complains about Lloyds Bank Plcs actions in respect 
of a cheque.
Mr P, who is a director of C, complains on its behalf.
What happened
Mr P told us:
In September 2022 he attempted to use an Immediate Deposit Machine (IDM) to pay 
a cheque for £191 into Cs account.
Lloyds rejected the cheque. He later discovered that was because the cheque was 
made out to him in his own name rather than to his companys name. However, the 
debit card he used to pay in the cheque is embossed with both his own name and 
Cs name.
He was ultimately able to obtain a replacement cheque, which he has since 
successfully paid into Cs bank account. But this cost him considerable time and 
frustration, which should not have been necessary.
Resolving the matter took over a month, and he had to make many phone calls  
most of which were not returned, despite promises of callbacks. In particular he had 
to make nine calls to one member of Lloyds staff.
He asked Lloyds to return the original cheque for his records, but it initially refused to 
do so  and said that its policy is to destroy cheques that do not clear successfully.  
Lloyds has not explained to him why it believes it has the right to destroy property 
that does not belong to it, and he considers that amounts to theft.
Lloyds has paid him a total of £100 in compensation (in two separate payments of 
£50 each) to apologise for its poor service, but he considers that amount insufficient.
Lloyds told us:
It considers that it was correct to reject the cheque, because it was made out to Mr P 
personally rather than to his company. 
Usually rejected cheques are destroyed, but as a special request a member of its 
complaints team arranged for Mr Ps cheque to be returned to him.
It accepts that its service was poor, but it considers that the payment it has already 
made is sufficient compensation.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He didnt think Lloyds 
had done anything wrong in respect of processing the cheque, and he thought £100 was fair 
compensation for the customer service issues.
Mr P did not accept our investigators findings. He questioned the legality of Lloyds decision 
to destroy rejected cheques, and he said he had not been provided with a copy of the 
relevant policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but Ill explain why 
Ive reached the conclusions I have and I hope that Mr P will at least feel that his concerns 
have been listened to.
Looking at everything that has happened here, Im satisfied that Lloyds has resolved Mr Ps 
complaint fairly. I say that because:
Im satisfied that Lloyds was right to reject the cheque. The cheque was payable to 
Mr P, so I see nothing wrong in Lloyds refusal to allow it to be paid into an account in 
Cs name. Thats true regardless of the fact that Mr P holds a card bearing both his 
own name and Cs. 
I am also satisfied that C has not suffered a financial loss. The £191 in dispute was 
eventually paid into Cs account. Even if Id thought Lloyds had made a mistake with 
the cheque, I would not have made an award for financial loss.
I consider that C did suffer inconvenience, in that Lloyds failed to return phone calls 
as promised. But I consider that the £100 it has already paid represents fair and 
reasonable compensation for that issue.
Mr Ps cheque was not in fact destroyed. Lloyds told him it would destroy the cheque, 
but it did not do so. There is therefore no need for me to make a finding on whether 
Lloyds would have been in the wrong if it had destroyed the cheque.
Its clear that Mr P is very unhappy about how Lloyds operates, particularly in relation to 
cheque processing. But as our investigator explained, it is not our role to tell businesses to 
change their systems or processes. Our role is to look at individual complaints and to ensure 
that things are put right for that particular complainant in the particular circumstances of that 
complaint. We are not the regulator, and it would not be right for me to attempt to interfere 
with the way Lloyds handles cheques.
Lloyds is not required to share copies of all of its internal policies with Mr P, nor is it required 
to publish them on the internet. But Mr P may be interested to know more about the Image 
Clearing System (ICS), of which Lloyds is a member. Cheques clear through the ICS 
digitally, and the cheque image rather than the paper cheque becomes the legal instrument. 
Pay.UK, the operator and standards body for the UKs retail interbank payments system, 
publishes information about the ICS on its website at www.wearepay.uk/what-we-
do/payment-systems/image-clearing-system/ .My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman