DRN-3808660
The complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations in force at the time, HSBC is expected 
to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute 
that Miss R was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that she authorised the payments. 
So the starting position is that shes liable for them.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment.
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have realised Miss R was at risk from fraud  
such as if the payments were uncharacteristically large or otherwise suspicious, 
given how she generally used her account. If HSBC failed to intervene appropriately 
when it should have done, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to 
hold it liable.
Miss R made five payments to Coinbase for between £1,000 and £2,000. While I 
accept this was higher than her day-to-day spending, I dont think they were so 
significant that HSBC ought to have been concerned. Afterall, there was a genuine 
payment for £650 a few months before. 
The payments didnt happen in quick succession, something that might have looked 
suspicious. Instead, they look place over around a month. Ive noted that the final 
payments happened on consecutive days, but by this time, Miss R had been using 
this merchant for some time  shed even received a payment from them. So I dont 
think the frequency of the payments looked so unusual that HSBC ought to have 
stepped in. 
I accept Miss R hadnt used Coinbase before and people do fall victim to investment 
scams which sometimes involve them. But theyre also a legitimate platform that 
people use. So I wouldnt expect HSBC to have been concerned simply because the 
payments went there. Afterall, it has to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to try and prevent fraud and unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying 
legitimate transactions.
So, taking this all into account, I consider it reasonable that HSBC didnt detect a 
fraud risk  so simply processed the payments in line with Miss Rs instructions.
As well as considering whether HSBC ought to have prevented Miss Rs loss, Ive 
considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. I dont think Miss R had 
a reasonable prospect of a chargeback claim succeeding, as it seems Coinbase 
provided the services it was supposed to  the losses happened afterwards when the 
funds were moved to the fraudsters wallet. And it seems the funds were moved there 
fairly quickly  so I dont think HSBC couldve recovered anything from Coinbase 
when it found out about the scam. 
I appreciate this will be hugely disappointing for Miss R, whos been the victim of a 
cruel and sophisticated scam. But Im not persuaded HSBC is at fault for failing to 
stop, or recover, her losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman