DRN-1929821
The complaint
Company S complaint, in summary, concerns an additional premium charged by Lloyds 
underwriters in relation to its commercial insurance policy.
For ease, whenever I refer to Society of Lloyds or Lloyds this will include anything done by 
the underwriters and its agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
here.  Briefly, after S provided the actual business figures for 2018/19 at the year-end, 
Lloyds increased the premium for the year by nearly £6,000. Though this was reduced to 
about £3,000 after negotiation, Mr A, the director of S is still unhappy about the additional 
premium. 
Mr A says that there was lack of clarity and information from Lloyds about the possibility of 
increase to the premium retrospectively on providing the year-end business figures. He says 
he wasnt made aware of this condition in the policy.  He says that had he been aware, he 
would not have renewed the policy.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint could not be upheld. In summary, she was of 
the view that it was made clear in the policy that an additional premium may be charged 
following any difference between the estimated and actual business figures. She also didnt 
think it was unfair to include this term within the policy. Mr A did not accept the investigators 
opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator.
Mr A considers the retrospective increase to the premium is unfair, especially as he wasnt 
made aware of the term in the policy that allows Lloyds to do this.
Lloyds says that at the time of renewal, the premium is calculated based on estimated 
business figures. Once the actual business figures are received at the year-end, the 
premium will be adjusted to reflect them. It has pointed to the relevant condition in the policy 
that says:
Adjustment Premium
Where the premium is calculated on statements and estimates provided by you, you must 
keep an accurate record of all relevant information. You must, within one month of the expiry 
of each period of insurance, provide to us any information that we require for the expired 
period and the premium will be adjusted by us and the difference be paid by, or allowed to, 
you as the case may be subject to any agreed minimum premium.
Lloyds says that it is for the broker who sold the policy to S to ensure that their client was 
made aware of the policy conditions.
Mr A says that this condition is hidden on page 99 of the policy document. Therefore it isnt 
transparent. He says that an important clause like this ought to have been mentioned in the 
policy schedule or in the communication from Lloyds.
Firstly I think that the relevant condition brings to light that there could be an adjustment to 
the premium on receipt of the information at the year-end.  
It is correct that this condition is on page 99 of 146 pages document. However, I see that the 
document is a multiple insurance policy document and covers different types of insurance. 
Each type of insurance is shown as a separate section. 
At the outset there is a section called READING THIS POLICY WORDING. It says: You 
must read all of the Important Information section of this wording and also the General 
Exclusions, General Conditions and Conditions Precedent. These apply to every 
policyholder. You need only read the Sections of Insurance that apply to you (refer to the 
Schedule which shows the Sections, Sub-sections and items which are operative). Use the 
Contents (pages 3 to 5) to locate specific parts of this policy
The schedule shows that none of the sections of the policy were operative in this case 
except Section 3  Legal Liability. Then these sections were expanded and each of the 
sections was shown as not insured, except for the Legal Liability section.
Thus I think it is sufficiently highlighted in the policy document that the relevant section to 
read for S was only Section 3. 
This section contains 16 pages. The above referred condition is under the page entitled: 
SECTION 3 CONDITIONS (Applicable to all sub-sections of Section 3.).  And it was the 
only condition under that whole page and as such quite prominent on that page. 
Given that S was referred to a specific section in the policy document and that the relevant 
condition was shown on its own in a single page within that section, I dont think that the 
condition was hidden, though I agree that it would have been helpful to highlight this 
condition in other documentation as well.
Mr A has also said that there had been no increase to the premiums until 2018-19 despite 
differences between the estimated business figures and the actual year-end figures. Lloyds 
say that in the preceding years they considered the estimated and actual figures to be 
broadly similar. 
I see that the difference between the estimate and actual figures are quite large in 2018-19 
compared to other years.  So I can see why the additional premium was charged in 2018-19.
In summary, I understand Mr As frustration in having to pay the additional premium, 
retrospectively. However for the reasons given I am unable to conclude that Lloyds acted 
unfairly in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman