DRN-1408510
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2005 Mr B took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card. Mr B says things 
happened by telephone. But according to Barclays' records this was a sale by Internet 
application.
The policy provided protection for Mr Bs card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment - it also provided life cover. The policy's 
monthly benefit was 10% of the outstanding card balance and it would pay out for up to 
12 months per claim. Its basic cost was 79 pence for every £100 Mr B owed on the card. 
The payments did attract interest.
At the time of the sale Mr B was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of less 
than three months' pay. He said he had around the same amount - less than three months' 
pay - in savings and could've also relied on friends and family to help meet his repayments. 
He said he was in good health at the time.
Barclays' records show the credit card account ended in 2006.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr B chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him. They also said the rules around high commission and profit share 
didn't apply in Mr B's case.
Because Mr B disagrees with the outcome of his mis-sale complaint, it comes to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr B's complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr B have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?I think Barclays made it clear that Mr B didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. 
Mr B initially said he took out PPI over the phone. But Barclays' internal records, record it 
as an Internet sale. And given the evidence Barclays has provided I think more likely than 
not this was as online application sale.
Barclays has provided example screenshots of the PPI screen it says Mr B would've seen 
during his credit card application. And this shows that a customer would've had to indicate 
on the application that they wanted PPI by ticking the 'Yes' box - if they didn't want it they 
could've left the section blank.
So given that Barclays records Mr B as having said he wanted PPI on his application, in the 
absence of persuasive evidence to suggest something very different happened in Mr B's 
case, I think more likely than not he indicated he wanted PPI when he was asked about it 
during his online application.
the information  
Mr B has said he remembers this was an advised sale. Barclays says because this was an 
online sale with no staff member interaction, it did not provide Mr B with advice or 
recommend he take out PPI. And I'm not persuaded that Barclays gave advice to Mr B. This 
means Barclays didn't have to ensure PPI was right or suitable for Mr B. But it did have to 
give him enough clear and timely information about it, so he could make an informed 
decision.
I accept that Barclays didn't likely do this - for example it's not clear to me that Barclays 
explained the cost information clearly of that it highlighted the significant limitations and 
exclusions of the cover.
But as I found above, I think Mr B chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate 
for him - for example he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances; and he seems to have had a need for cover - so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr B off taking out the 
cover. 
This means I dont think Mr B has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Barclays 
doesn't have to pay back to Mr B what he paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he's said about his existing 
means and that he wasn't made aware there was a cancellation period. But these points 
dont change my decision.
Mr B says he had some sick pay and savings he could've used to make his payments. But 
the policy would've paid out alongside these and if necessary, for longer than his existing 
means would've lasted, - up to 12 months per claim. With a monthly payout of 10% of what 
Mr B owed on the card, the policy also had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in 
full. So, I think Mr B would've found the policy useful had he been in the unfortunate position 
of not being able to work or being out of work.
Mr B says he could've relied on friends and family if needed. But I've already said that by 
choosing to take out the policy, Mr B was clearly interested in the type of cover the policy provided - he would've at least been given a broad description of what the policy was (that is 
protection in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.) So, in doing so it seems to 
me that Mr B didn't want to rely on the help of others, notwithstanding any well-intentioned 
offer of help he says he might've been given.
Mr B says he wasn't made aware of the cancellation period - the period immediately 
following the sale in which he could've cancelled the policy. As I said above, I accept Mr B 
might not have been given all of the information about the policy in a clear and timely 
manner. But for the reasons I've set out above, I think more likely than not he would've still 
gone ahead in any event - I'm not persuaded that in his particular circumstances at the time 
he would've been given sufficient reason to decline the policy (or cancel it within the 
cancellation period) had Barclays done anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman