DRN-4280970
The complaint
Mrs N complains she was mis-sold an investment she made in a bond issued by Basset &
Gold Plc (B&G plc). Mrs N says she was misled that the bond was a safe investment 
but has since lost her money and would like to be refunded. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs N invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond. For a period of time, sales 
of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from 
B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds. 
And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were 
also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mrs N interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted, and I will consider in my findings whether Mrs N actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Mrs N and the investment in the bond
Mrs N invested a total of £136,200 in the bond. This followed phone discussions between 
Mrs N and a representative of BG Ltd. She said she was persuaded to take out the 
investment by the representative who assured her it was secured and protected  and 
completed an online application.
The administrators of BG Ltd have provided some recordings of these discussions, but a 
number are missing  so I do not know the full detail of what was discussed. BG Ltds log of 
applications shows Mrs N being recorded as an Everyday Investor. The certificate dated 15 
January 2018 for the bond Mrs N invested in confirms £136,200 was paid in the B&G Plc 3 
year Fixed Monthly Income Bond with annual rate of 6.22%. 
Mrs N has told us she was retired and in receipt of a small pension. She hadnt invested 
before other than the B&Gs bonds she took out a few months before this investment. The 
funds for this investment were transferred from savings she held with NS&I.  She said she 
was very risk averse and cautious.
On 8 January 2019, BGF (which by that point had taken on the role of BG Ltd), sent an email
to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that nearly all the
money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day lender. 
Following action by the FCA, the pay day lender went into administration in March 2020 - 
and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs N has
not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
From the available evidence, it is not completely clear how Mrs Ns application was made. 
She recalls both completing an online application and also speaking to a relationship 
manager at BG Ltd when completing the application. This is supported by the available 
telephone records. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was
certification. The second was the appropriateness test.
Galliums response to Mrs Ns complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Ns complaint. It said Mrs N had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Ns
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium describes as its position statement, which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ns complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mrs N as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond 
for her - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with 
the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mrs N wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs N to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs N for the loss she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
- The investigator has misdirected themselves on whether Gallium was responsible for 
the matters complained about as the sale took place during the interim period. 
- B&G Finance Limited (BGF) was authorised by the FCA on 2 January 2018 and 
began to promote the bonds to investors from that date. In particular, the website and 
telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. At no point was BGF an 
authorised representative of Gallium, and Gallium had no responsibility for the 
actions of BGF. 
- It has not found that Mrs N actually spoke to anyone at B&G Plc or BG Ltd for whose 
conduct Gallium had any responsibility, or that Gallium actually operated the website 
through which the Mrs N invested and which contained the certification and  appropriateness questions which form the basis of the assessment. Rather, the 
available evidence suggests Mrs N spoke to representatives for whom BGF was 
responsible, and applied to invest through a website process approved by BGF. 
Gallium has provided a witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023 
on subject of who is responsible for arranging the investment, which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond
investments.
It is his understanding that in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold 
representatives and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim 
period all regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G
Plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments,
were conducted by BGF
BG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which
confirmed that Basset & Gold (he says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the
FCA. The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but
he recalls what was discussed.
Gallium has also provided a general submission which contained some further evidence 
relating to what it descrbes as the interim period. This included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Represenative Monthly Complaince Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018. 
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
represenative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails. 
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds complaince officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed represenative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons. 
A list of calls made by B&G Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023. This is what I said:
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s)
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to
decide whether we can consider Mrs Ns complaint.
It is not clear how exactly Mrs Ns application came about  whether it was done online, over
the phone or a combination of the two. But, Im satisfied Mrs Ns complaint is about the 
arrangement of her investment in the bond and the exchanges she had with the 
representative in the period up to the arrangement of the investment being concluded. In 
short Mrs N says she was misled during those exchanges.
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission bya firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice,
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA):
the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mrs Ns complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility.
Is Mrs Ns complaint about a regulated activity?
I am satisfied Mrs Ns complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs N made her investment, the RAO
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the
application process  whether it took place online or over the phone  falls within the scope 
of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements for Mrs N to invest in the bond, and had the 
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about?
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same.
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  15 January
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it.
I note Gallium, in its response to the view, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote
the bonds to investors and that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF
from that date. However  save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points
and in any event inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has
provided no evidence to support this point.
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case.
Ive paid particular attention to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly 
Compliance Report which Gallium provided. The following questions are asked of Basset 
Gold:Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify the firm 
as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And have you provided 
copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial promotions prior 
to promotion and such categories kept on file? 
Each of these questions was answered Yes. 
Attached to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a 
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Mrs Ns 15 
January 2018 investment. 
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed 
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the 
activities of B&G Ltd, as it was B&G Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made 
promotions and arranged investments. 
The copy of the report we have been given also features a post-it note stuck to the report of 
all the investment business, which says: 
Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7/ They may need to consider new 
loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as terminating end of Feb, but 
worth mentioning to them
Mrs N dealt with a Relationship Manager helping her through the application on the phone. 
While the full history of call recordings arent available, from what I have been able to listen 
to, it is apparent that Mrs N had an existing relationship with the person she was dealing with 
and they were quite familiar with each other. This is supported by the fact Mrs N was an 
existing B&G bond holder, having taken out investments only a couple of months earlier 
dealing with the same Relationship Manager. If the Relationship Manager was no longer 
working on behalf of BG Ltd, and after 2 January 2018 and was instead working for BGF, I 
would have expected this to be explained. I say this given Mrs Ns interactions with BG Ltd 
were ongoing at that point. But Ive not seen evidence this happened, in fact to the contrary it 
seems more likely the Relationship Manager was still working on behalf of BG Ltd. 
In addition to this, through other complaints this service has adjudicated on, we have seen 
numerous examples of bond sales that link BG Ltd to arranging investments during the 
interim period. We have seen evidence in the form of emails and telephone calls that 
indicate that investors were dealing with representatives of BG Ltd when arranging bonds 
during the time period when Mrs N took out her investment. For example, weve seen 
several emails from January 2018 sent to investors from BG Ltd Relationship Managers and 
the email footer states, Basset Gold Ltd is an appointed representative of Gallium Fund 
Solutions Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mrs N applied to invest through a website
process approved by BGF. But I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to. 
As I have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any
reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd.
Returning to the witness statement - this includes the following:On 4 January 2018, I received an email from [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset
and Gold businesses], the ultimate owner and controller of Basset & Gold, which confirmed
that Basset & Gold had been authorised by the FCA. I now know that it is BGF that was the
entity authorised by the FCA, and that BGF had become FCA authorised on 2 January 2018.
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] requested a meeting to
discuss the best way to transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new
firm.
I met with [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] in the hotel
he was staying in London the week following his email. I believe the meeting took place on
11 January 2018 as [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses]s
email of 4 January 2018 mentioned that he would be in London the following Thursday,
which was the 11th. I recall that I made a note of what we discussed at the meeting, but so
long after it took place I cannot now locate my notes. I do, however, recall what was
discussed.
At the meeting, [name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] and I
agreed that Gallium would cease monitoring and approving new financial promotions with
immediate effect, because Basset & Gold now controlled its own regulated firm, BGF.
[name of the owner of the Basset Gold/Basset and Gold businesses] also informed me that
BGF would update the Basset & Gold website and online application form, to reflect that
BGF was now responsible for the promotion of the bonds and arranging any investments
made in the Bonds.
As mentioned, there are a number of things about the witness statement which are unclear. 
But, even I accept what the statement says as an accurate reflection of the position at the 
time (and, to be clear, given the available evidence otherwise, I do not) it does not in any 
event amount to evidence BGF was responsible for Mrs Ns investment.
I say this because the witness statement says a meeting  to discuss a transition to BGF
from Galliums appointed representatives  took place on 11 January. Galliums ex-director
says his recollection of that meeting was that at the time of the meeting Gallium would no
longer be responsible with immediate effect and BGF now being responsible. Which
suggests, on Galliums ex-directors recollection, responsibility passed from Gallium to BGF
on 11 January 2018. That is contradictory to previous statements that BGF were responsible 
from 2 January 2018, so casts doubt over the statements made. 
Ive considered the latest general submissions Gallium has presented to support its view that 
it isnt responsible for answering Mrs Ns complaint. In my view this is all evidence B&G Ltd 
was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  including the investment Mrs N made  at 
the time of this investment, and was doing so as an appointed representative of Gallium. I 
say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time. 
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence B&G Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and 
recording promotions and arrangements being made by B&G Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time. 
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018. The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from B&G Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place. 
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January
2018, as Gallium response to the investigators view says, or that it had any involvement in
Mrs Ns investment. All the evidence I have seen supports a contrary position. Im satisfied 
Mrs Ns complaint is about acts for which Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore 
acts of Gallium and can be considered in a complaint against it.
The merits of Mrs Ns complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary: 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mrs N into certifying herself as belonging in a 
category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term used in 
the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone could fall 
into. This was not treating Mrs N fairly or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed 
the rules and not misled Mrs N, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a 
restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond was 
not an appropriate investment for Mrs N. In the circumstances she would either not have 
proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not 
promote the bond to her.I didnt receive any further submissions from either party by the deadline set for responses to 
my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs N or Gallium has made more comments or arguments for me to consider, Ive 
got no reason to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find Mrs N would either 
not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had 
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs N for her loss and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
N as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not taken out this bond.
I think Mrs N would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs N' circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs N fairly, Gallium must:
-Compare the performance of Mrs N's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
-Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
bond  Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.If at the end date the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs N agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the bond, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, then 
it may request an undertaking from Mrs N that she repays to Gallium any amount she may 
receive from the bond in the future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
- Mrs N wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital. 
- The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs N' 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs N would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs N in a clear, 
simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited pays Mrs N the 
balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Gallium 
Fund Solutions Limited. It is unlikely that Mrs N can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mrs N may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
should pay Mrs N the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
plus any interest set out above.
If Gallium Fund Solutions Limited does not pay the full fair compensation, then any portfolio 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs N. This is until any future benefit that she may 
receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.Gallium Fund Solutions Limited may request an undertaking from Mrs N that either she 
repays to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited any amount Mrs N may receive from the portfolio 
thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio at that point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023. 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman