DRN-3170319
The complaint
Mr P complains Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) have declined his Wheel 
Protection Insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Amtrust said the damage caused to the wheel was corrosion, which built up over a 
period of time  and wasnt a sudden and unforeseen event
Amtrust declined the claim because damage not reported within 30 days of it 
occurring, and damage deemed to be wear and tear, was not covered under the 
policy
I can see from the system notes provided by Amtrust that Mr P disagreed with its 
decision to decline the claim as he said there are no signs of the alloy wheel being 
hit. 
Mr P said the lacquer had been chipped and caused water damage, which resulted in 
the alloy wheel rusting. I can see this is also detailed in Mr Ps claim form
The photos provided of the alloy wheel do show some discolouration on a large part 
of the alloy and signs of rust
But rust is a form of corrosion  and usually happens over an extended period of 
time. The level of discolouration takes up a large part of the alloy and Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me this was caused suddenly. So, I dont think Amtrust have 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Ps claim
Mr P has also raised concerns about the sale of his policy. But this was not the 
complaint he originally brought to our service. This would need to be directed to the 
seller of the policy
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that previous claims, made shortly before this 
one, for similar reasons, had been accepted. Amtrust has said it accepted these in 
error and for the reasons Ive set out above, I think its acted fairly in declining Mr Ps 
claim, so I dont intend to interfere in that decision
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman