DRN-3210589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain on behalf of a trust they set up to hold an investment savings plan. 
Their complaint is about delays when surrendering the plan. Responsibility for that activity 
now sits with Phoenix Life Limited. 
What happened
In response to this complaint, Phoenix Life accepted there had been a delay acting on the 
instruction to surrender the plan. They said some of this was because they needed Mrs W to 
confirm her address. But they noted they had everything they needed by 6 November 2020, 
and then hadnt acted on the surrender of the investment until 30 November.
Phoenix Life offered to pay the equivalent of 8% simple interest on the funds for the period 
they felt it had been delayed. They worked out this would be £28.09. They also offered Mr W 
£100 compensation to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused by the delay.
Mr W wasnt happy with this, so he and Mrs W brought the complaint to us. But our 
investigator felt Phoenix Lifes offer did enough to put things right. He felt it was fair for them 
to use the value the investment had on 6 November to work out what Mr W should receive, 
even though this was less than the value the investment had later in the month. 
Mr W didnt accept that view, so the complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Phoenix Lifes offer does do enough to put things right here. Ill 
briefly explain why.
Its not disputed theres been a delay here. I accept Phoenix Lifes position  that the time 
taken from mid-October  when Mr W first asked to surrender the investment  and early 
November was needed to confirm the paperwork was all correct. Doing that keeps account 
secure, so its reasonable for Phoenix Life to have spent some time doing it.
But I acknowledge that Phoenix Life had everything needed to go ahead with the surrender 
from 6 November. So thats when they should have taken the action needed to do that. 
It was unreasonable that it took Phoenix Life longer than it should to act on the instruction. 
But once they did, I can see they used the value the investment would have had, if thered 
been no delay. A big part of this complaint is deciding whether that was a fair approach. 
Putting things right
I appreciate Mr W would prefer if the later value of the investment was used to work out what 
he should receive. But I think he only feels that way because that value is higher. If the 
investments performance had gone the other way, I dont think hed consider that quite so 
fair. Hed effectively be being penalised because of Phoenix Lifes delay. 
At least this way, Mr W is in the position he would have been in if there hadnt been the 
delay. I consider that the fairest way to go about putting that part of things right. 
Looking at the rest of Phoenix Lifes offer, the 8% simple interest theyve applied for the time 
the delay added before Mr W received the money is in line with our standard approach. It 
reflects that the trusts beneficiary wasnt able to access and use the money to potentially 
achieve some sort of gain, without trying to get too specific about what would have actually 
been done with the money if thered been no delay. I find thats suitable here.
The other impact then is as Phoenix Life have identified  the trouble and upset caused for 
Mr W. I note Mr Ws comments on this point, and his frustration at what he feels was 
inaccurate information from Phoenix Life when he called them. 
But Im also conscious were not talking about a prolonged delay here. The whole matter 
seems to have been sorted out in a couple of months. And I cant see there was a 
background need for the money that was being made more desperate by the delay. 
So I find the £100 Phoenix Life put forward to compensate Mr W personally is the right figure 
to use here. Ill just note though that this part of the compensation is for Mr W personally, as 
it was him who seems to have been caused the trouble and upset. The rest of the remedy  
the 8% interest  is for the trust itself, to ultimately benefit its beneficiary. It was they who 
would otherwise have had use of the delayed funds.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about Phoenix Life Limited. To put things 
right, Phoenix Life Limited should pay the trust the simple interest it previously offered, and 
pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
as the trustees of the W Trust to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman