DRN-3869435
The complaint
Mr A complains about the level of service he received during a telephone conversation with 
Metro Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr A holds a current account with Metro Bank. On 3 October 2022, he called Metro Bank to 
discuss a direct debit payment. Mr A had asked the bank to cancel the payment, and he was 
concerned that the merchant had still tried to take the money.
 
Metro Bank explained that, while it had taken on board Mr As instructions, he still needed to 
contact the merchant to ensure the direct debit was cancelled. Thats because such 
payments are arranged directly with the merchant, and the bank simply facilitates them.
 
Although he ultimately accepted the explanation for his direct debit, Mr A was unhappy with 
how long the telephone call had lasted  and how long it had taken for things to be explained 
properly. He was dissatisfied that hed had to speak with a manager to sort the issue out. So, 
he complained.
 
Metro Bank wrote to Mr A on 11 October 2022. In its letter, the bank said it recognised that 
the service it provided during the call couldve been better  so it upheld Mr As complaint 
and apologised. Metro Bank also said it would provide feedback directly to the agent 
involved.
 
Mr A, though, remained unhappy  so he contacted our service for an independent review. 
Specifically, Mr A felt that he shouldve been awarded some compensation for the time and 
inconvenience of having to be on the phone for so long. He said that hes self-employed and 
if hes not working, hes not being paid.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened, but he didnt think the bank needed to 
take any further action. He accepted that the call might have taken longer than it should, and 
perhaps Metro Banks agent couldve been slightly clearer in explaining how the direct debit 
process worked. But, on the whole, he thought the agent had tried to be helpful and provide 
Mr A with the necessary information to resolve the problem.
 
Additionally, he noted that Mr A had chosen to speak with a manager  so it wasnt 
unreasonable to expect some delay while the agent tried to find someone available. 
Overall, in the circumstances, our investigator thought Metro Bank had done enough by 
recognising the level of service couldve been better and apologising. But he didnt think 
compensation was warranted.
Mr A disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he said his 
complaint had been upheld by the bank so he should get some compensation. As no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise that Mr A will be disappointed, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion as our investigator.
 
Ive listened to the call between Mr A and Metro Bank and I agree that he was probably on 
the phone for longer than necessary. I think there are several reasons for that; I wont list 
everything here, but I consider that a poor line, some miscommunication, and then the 
banks agent trying to find an available manager all added to how long the call lasted. 
Metro Bank has accepted too that the customer service couldve been better. Specifically, 
the bank acknowledges that the answers to Mr As questions about his direct debit payment, 
from the first person he spoke with, couldve been clearer.
 
I dont think, though, that accepting things couldve been a little better requires Metro Bank to 
pay compensation. Instead, in the circumstances of this case, I think Metro Banks apology 
is enough. Thats because compensation isnt the only way to resolve a complaint, and it 
isnt always appropriate. Sometimes, an apology is just whats needed  and I think thats 
the case here.
 
I understand Mr A was on the phone to Metro Bank for longer than hed have liked, but its 
true to say that we all experience some inconvenience from time to time. And while I accept 
Mr As point that he wasnt able to work while on the phone, hes not provided anything to 
show that he lost out financially as a result of being on the call.
 
Metro Bank has apologised to Mr A, and its provided feedback to the agent that he spoke 
with. I think thats an appropriate response to the complaint and enough to provide a fair and 
reasonable resolution, so I dont think it also has to pay compensation.
 
With all of that in mind, although I know Mr A will be disappointed, I dont require Metro Bank 
to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman