DRN-1883352
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund what he paid, using his 
Santander credit card, for a used car and a warranty extension. He says they werent as 
described by the seller and werent of satisfactory quality. He brings this complaint under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In September 2019, Mr B saw an advertisement for a used car. It was first registered in 2006 
and was advertised as having a recorded mileage of 105,000 miles. Mr B decided to buy it. 
He paid the seller a total of £4,235 made up of £3,690 for the car and £545 for a six month 
warranty.
Mr B wasnt able to inspect the car fully when he collected it. He noticed a couple of things 
he was unhappy with but still went ahead with the purchase. The next day, after a fuller 
inspection, he decided he wanted to return the car and get a refund. The seller didnt accept 
Mr B was entitled to reject the car. However, it said it would take the car back and refund the 
price, less an inspection fee/charge of £450. It wouldnt refund the warranty purchase price.
Mr B was unhappy about this and complained to Santander. The matters he complained 
about were, in summary:
the advertisement and invoice said the cars recorded mileage was 105,000. The 
recorded mileage was in fact 103,856. Mr B was concerned the car might have been 
clocked, and someone might think he was responsible for this;
the car was advertised as fully valeted, but there were a lot of leaves under the 
bonnet which he thought meant this hadnt been done. The seller said it would pay 
for re-valeting, and gave Mr B the address of a valeting company, but Mr B couldnt 
find this;
the car had apparently been recently resprayed, and masking tape had been left over 
the front side lights;
the front sensors had been disconnected and the wires tied in a bundle under the 
bonnet;
the car was advertised with 12 months MOT, but in fact only had 9 months 
unexpired;
the car was advertised with 5 days free drive away insurance, but Mr B wasnt given 
any paperwork for this; and
Mr B hadnt asked for details of the warranty he was buying before he paid for it. 
When he discussed it after the sale with the seller, he was unhappy with its terms. He 
says he hasnt been given the written terms of this warranty.
Mr B was unwilling to return the car to the seller without his complaints being resolved to his 
satisfaction. Santander initially investigated trying to chargeback the purchase through the 
sellers bank, but told Mr B that this would be unsuccessful as he hadnt returned the goods.
Santander then considered whether Mr B had a claim under Section 75. It said for this to be 
the case Mr B would have to have grounds for rejecting the car because of a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the seller.
On the evidence Mr B had provided, it wasnt satisfied this was so. Mr B hadnt provided a 
report from an independent mechanic to show the car was inherently faulty at the time of 
sale, and with the time that had passed it was difficult now to do this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied that Santander was correct to say that a chargeback wouldnt have succeeded as 
Mr B wasnt willing to return the car to the seller without all he had paid being refunded.
He then considered whether Mr B had established he had a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the seller sufficient to support a section 75 claim against 
Santander. He didnt think Mr B had done so. Dealing, in summary, with the various issues 
Mr B had raised, the investigator thought:
as the actual mileage was less than that on the advert and invoice this was, if 
anything, a benefit to Mr B. He thought the seller had merely advertised 105,000 
miles as a round figure;
from the limited inspection Mr B made before the purchase he was aware of the 
masking of the lights and repainting but chose to proceed with the purchase;
given the age and mileage of the car, and the price Mr B paid for it, a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect it to be in perfect condition. So the fact there was a potential 
problem with the front parking sensors didnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality; and
Mr B was concerned that the insurance and the warranty werent in place. But the 
fact he wasnt provided with the relevant paperwork didnt prove this.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
the seller shouldnt have been able to charge him for him to be able to return the car;
if items (such as the sensors) were fitted, they should have been in working order;
he thought insurance documents at point of sale were a legal requirement; and
the receipt for the warranty was reflected in the price he paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I wish to correct one misapprehension Mr B seems to have had. Ive listened to 
the phone calls he made to Santander soon after he bought the car. He seems to believe he 
had a right within 14 days of buying the car to change his mind and return the car in 
exchange for a full refund, without having to prove the seller had done something wrong. 
Such a right can exist where a consumer buys goods at a distance, for example by phone or 
over the internet, but not where the consumer completes the transaction face to face with the 
seller. As it appears Mr B completed the purchase at the sellers premises, he didnt have an 
automatic right to cancel the purchase within 14 days.
I agree with Santander that because Mr B retained possession of the car, a chargeback 
against the sellers bank wouldnt have been successful.Where a purchase of goods is made using a credit card the consumer can have an equal 
right against the credit card company as he has against the seller for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. So its necessary to see whether the conduct of the seller in this case 
amounted either to a misrepresentation or a breach of contract serious enough to entitle    
Mr B to reject the car and warranty.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter a 
contract. Of the matters listed above that Mr B complained about, my views are:
the mileage  as the investigator said, this was, if anything, to Mr Bs benefit;
valeting  Im not sure if leaves under the bonnet would normally be removed by 
valeting, but in any event the seller agreed to pay for re-valeting;
sensors  the advertisement mentions a large number of the features of the car, but 
not the front sensors. So I cant say there was any misrepresentation of these;
the MOT  this was slightly less than advertised, but I dont think this was enough to 
entitle Mr B to reject the car;
insurance and warranty  although Mr B doesnt seem to have seen the paperwork 
for these, this doesnt in itself prove they werent provided by the seller.
So Im not persuaded there was any misrepresentation which would have allowed Mr B to 
cancel the contract.
Ive also considered whether anything the seller did amounted to a breach of contract which 
would entitle Mr B to reject the car. In the events that happened, Im not convinced there was 
a breach of any express term of the contract.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 provides that in a consumer contract a term is implied that 
goods sold will be of satisfactory quality, and will be fit for purpose. In a car of this age and 
mileage a lesser standard is expected than for a new car. Its not clear why the front sensors 
had been disconnected  it may just have been to allow the respray to take place. Whatever 
the reason, Im not convinced that the fact they were disconnected meant these implied 
terms were breached.
To answer the further points Mr B made in response to the investigators view:
the sellers offering to accept the car back for a fee wasnt part of the original 
contract, and so isnt relevant for the purposes of section 75;
as Ive explained, I wouldnt necessarily expect everything originally fitted to the car 
still to be functioning given its age and mileage unless the seller had said it would be. 
It was for Mr B to inspect the car and check that all the fixtures important to him were 
functioning before he completed the sale, but he has acknowledged he didnt do this;
while Mr B had a legal obligation to insure the car when he bought it before he took it 
on the road, this isnt to say he had to be provided with documentation at point of 
sale; and
I acknowledge Mr B paid for a warranty as part of the sale. However, he doesnt 
seem to have checked the details of what was being provided before he paid for it. 
So its difficult to say he didnt get what he paid for.
I sympathise with Mr B in that he didnt check fully what he was buying before he bought it, 
and when he reviewed his purchase the next day he regretted it and wanted to cancel it.Santander reviewed what had happened and concluded that the evidence available wouldnt 
support a chargeback, or a claim against the seller under Section 75 to cancel the 
transaction. For the reasons Ive explained I cant say Santander has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Santander UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman