DRN-4152063
The complaint
Miss B complains Santander UK Plc wont refund her payments she made using her debit 
card, for items she purchased.
What happened
Purchase one
Miss B made an online purchase for an item on 13 May 2022 for £297. Shortly after, Miss B 
says she became unwell. And it wasnt until she started to recover that she was able to look 
at what shed bought. Upon doing so, Miss B noticed the item wasnt complete  Miss B said 
full instructions for assembling the item werent provided. But unfortunately, by the time Miss 
B contacted the merchant to ask if the item could be returned in August 2022, it was outside 
of the return window which closed on 10 June 2022.   
Purchase two
Miss B said she purchased a sofa online and made two payments via the faster payment 
method to the merchant  the first was for £50 on 14 October 2022 and then a final payment 
of £649 was made when the sofa was delivered in November 2022. Miss B says when 
putting the sofa together, she noticed it didnt fit properly together and the cushions didnt fit. 
So, Miss B contacted the merchant straight away, but unfortunately, wasnt able to 
successfully reach them. Miss B said she tried to reach them via social media but wasnt 
able to reach them that way neither. Miss B says she has tried everything in her power to get 
in touch with this company.
Miss B contacted Santander and raised a chargeback for both purchases in August 2022, as 
she feels shes out of pocket. Miss B says she wants her money back and feels Santander 
havent offered her any security or protection nor have they tried to resolve these issues for 
her.
Santander considered Miss Bs chargeback claim. In relation to purchase one, they said they 
werent able to pursue the claim because Miss B didnt return the item to the merchant. And 
in relation to purchase two, Santander said as the two payments Miss B made were 
transfers and not debit card transactions, chargeback wasnt available for this payment type.
Our Investigator looked into Miss Bs concerns. In summary, she said it wasnt clear whether 
Miss Bs debit card was Visa or Mastercard. But having reviewed both card scheme rules, 
she thought Santander had acted appropriately in reaching their decision to decline Miss Bs 
chargeback claim. Our Investigator explained the rules said the item under purchase one 
needed to be returned. But as it hadnt, a chargeback claim would have been unsuccessful. 
Our Investigator also said Miss B hadnt provided Santander with sufficient evidence that the 
goods werent as described  there wasnt any evidence to suggest the item should have 
come with instructions. For purchase two, as the payments were made via the faster 
payment method, our Investigator said this type of payment wasnt covered under the 
chargeback rules.
Miss B responded and explained that she was really ill after purchase one and that she 
wasnt in any frame of mind to do anything. Miss B also provided an online review from 
another customer about the merchant. Miss B reiterated that shed made several attempts to 
get in contact with the merchant under purchase two but wasnt successful. As Miss B says 
she didnt get what she paid for in both purchases, she feels shes entitled to a refund for 
these items. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to read of the difficult time Miss B has described to us and I empathise with what 
Miss B has told us.
As Miss B paid for the goods and services using her debit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether Santander dealt with her request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case, at least for purchase one. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme rules. Its not clear whether Miss Bs Santander debit card is Visa or 
Mastercard, so, for the avoidance of doubt, Ive reviewed both scheme rules. 
The chargeback process is a voluntary one, so Santander were under no absolute obligation 
to carry one out. It is a tool which is available as a means of resolving disputes. However, we 
would only expect a financial business to initiate a chargeback and continue to pursue it, if 
there was a reasonable prospect of success.
Purchase one
Miss B said that when purchasing this item, it was sold as everything you need for (name of 
the item). Miss B said everything to her included the full instructions of how to assemble 
the item. However, Miss B noticed full instructions werent provided when she eventually 
came to open the package. While its not entirely clear to me what code Santander 
considered Miss Bs chargeback claim under, having looked at the codes under the rules 
myself, I think there were two potential codes that Santander could have considered Miss 
Bs claim under. These were goods or services not as described or refund not processed.
Miss B bought the item online but says she wasnt able to return them when she eventually 
opened them. Miss B was told by the merchant that the return date had passed  which the 
screenshot she provided shows was 10 June 2022. Having looked at the information on file, 
I dont think theres enough to suggest Miss B provided Santander with sufficient evidence at 
the time of her dispute to show the item she received werent as described. I say this 
because both Santander and Miss B provided us with a copy of messages exchanged 
between Miss B and the merchant where Miss B asked for instructions with a diagram to be 
sent to her. And the response from the merchant was sorry we dont. So, I dont think 
Santander acted unreasonably in not pursuing Miss Bs chargeback further, albeit I 
recognise they said it was because Miss B hadnt returned the item. Nonetheless, as 
explained, Im not persuaded there was enough evidence to say the goods werent as 
described.
The other option was if Miss B tried to cancel the order within the cancellation period and 
was then refused a refund by the merchant  this could have been considered under the 
refund not processed chargeback code. The usual timescale for cancelling online 
transactions is 14 days. However, Miss B had until 10 June 2022 for any returns, which is a 
little longer than the two weeks usually given for online orders. In any case, Miss B provided us with evidence of her contact with the merchant which shows she asked for the goods to 
be returned on 19 August 2022  which is beyond the 10 June 2022 and more than two 
weeks from the transaction date. So, with this in mind, I dont think Santander acted unfairly 
in not pursuing Miss Bs chargeback under this code.
I understand Miss B says she was unwell at the time and so wasnt feeling well enough to 
open the item at the point it was delivered. I can appreciate the difficult and upsetting time 
Miss B was going through, but its important to note that chargebacks are decided with the 
card scheme's rules in mind and arent the relative merits of the cardholder/merchant 
dispute. The chargeback rules are prescriptive, and dont allow for anything like exceptional 
circumstances to be considered. With this in mind, I dont think Santander acted unfairly in 
not pursuing Miss Bs claim as I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of success. 
And had it been pursued, on balance, I think the merchant would have likely defended the 
claim successfully.
I note Miss B has also provided us with an online comment and feedback from another 
consumer who ordered goods from the same merchant. And while Ive considered this 
evidence, Ive looked at the circumstances of Miss Bs individual case to determine whether I 
think Santander have acted reasonably or not.
Purchase two
The transaction information provided by Santander shows Miss B made two payments to the 
merchant for a sofa  one was for £50 on 14 October 2022 and the other was for £649 on 1 
November 2022. The evidence shows both payments were made via faster payment  this 
method is used to make transfers to and from a payment account electronically. 
These payments arent covered by the chargeback process. The chargeback process allows 
for payment settlement disputes to be resolved when goods or services are bought with by 
either a credit or debit card. It doesnt allow for when purchases are made via transferring 
money from one payment account to another, as the card scheme wasnt in play here  
chargebacks are only applicable due to the scheme rules as Ive explained above.
I appreciate my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss B. And I want Miss B 
to know I empathise with the difficult time she went through. But I havent found Santander 
have acted unfairly when dealing with Miss Bs chargeback claim.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman