DRN-2203345
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are chasing her for a 
debt she says she doesnt owe.
What happened
In February 2019, Cabot bought this debt from the original owner. They sent a notice of 
assignment to Miss M. Miss M replied with a template letter from the internet that attempted 
to dispute the legal basis of the debt and asked for certain documents. Cabot then sent her a 
copy of the credit agreement, statements, and another copy of the notice of assignment, to 
show that she did indeed owe the debt.
Miss M didnt make any payments to Cabot, so they sent her an arrears notice in August 
2019, and a default notice in October 2019. Miss M then called Cabot. According to the call 
notes, they discussed her circumstances with a view to working out affordable repayments, 
but she ended the call while they were going through her income and expenses.
In November 2019, the debt defaulted. Miss M sent two further template letters. Cabot 
explained again that she did still owe the debt, and said the legal arguments shed put 
forward werent relevant.
Miss M says she doesnt have a contract with Cabot, and wants them to provide a deed of 
assignment instead of a notice of assignment. If they cant, she wants the default and other 
negative credit information removed from her file, the account closed, and compensation for 
what she says is harassment.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He was 
satisfied from the evidence that this was the same debt that Miss M took out with the original 
creditor. He explained that Cabot now possessed the debt, so Miss M now owed the money 
to them. He explained they only needed to send her a notice of assignment, and not the 
deed. He didnt feel Cabots communication was excessive or unreasonable.
Miss M asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss M would like to make sure that she really does owe the debt to 
Cabot, as she wouldnt want to pay the wrong company. 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence, including a copy of the credit agreement, statements, 
and the notice of assignment. I can see that the account references match, and the original 
creditor have confirmed that they sold Miss Ms debt to Cabot. Miss M has a history of 
making payments to this debt  at least before it was with Cabot  and appears to have 
discussed it with Cabot on the phone. Theres nothing to suggest that Miss M didnt take out 
this debt. Im satisfied this is Miss Ms debt.
I can understand if theres been some confusion for Miss M, as from her perspective her 
contract was with the original creditor rather than Cabot. But debts can and do get sold on  
its quite normal. And now that Cabot have bought the debt, it means that Miss M owes the 
money to Cabot instead of the original creditor.
Miss M has been given the relevant notice of assignment, which I think is sufficient to show 
her that Cabot now owns the debt. Its not clear why she also wants to see the deed of 
assignment, which is a private document between Cabot and the original debt owner. Cabot 
explained the deed contains sensitive information between them and the creditor, and does 
not contain any of Miss Ms personal data. And they do not have an obligation to provide this 
document to Miss M, so I think its reasonable that they havent.
Miss Ms letters made a number of other arguments about the enforceability of the debt. 
Whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is a matter for a court to decide  thats not 
something I have the power to determine. But I would warn Miss M that if something seems 
too good to be true, it often is, and Id be wary of websites that make big promises about 
clearing debts using obscure legal arguments. I would strongly recommend that Miss M 
seeks qualified legal advice before attempting to use any of these same arguments in court.
I dont think Cabot have communicated with Miss M excessively or unreasonably. They tried 
to call her only a handful of times over quite a long period, and they were required to tell her 
about things like buying the debt, her arrears, and the default. I think its reasonable for 
Cabot to ask Miss M to pay back the debt she owes. And Ive not seen anything in the 
content, tone, or frequency of their communication that seems inappropriate.
I hope I can reassure Miss M that Cabot still have a duty to deal with any financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. The interest and charges are frozen at zero, and theyve said 
theyre happy to work out affordable repayments with Miss M. Miss M might want to contact 
Cabot to see what assistance  if any  they can offer her. Ive also sent Miss M contact 
details for firms that can give her free advice and help with dealing with her debts. And she 
may be able to come back to our service as a separate complaint if she subsequently feels 
that Cabot arent taking any difficulties into account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman