DRN-2550347
Complaint
Mr Z has complained about Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) issuing him with a 
default notice on his credit card account. Hes said that the notice and resulting demand for 
payment shouldnt have been issued while he was on an agreed temporary payment 
deferral.
Background
In April 2020, Capital One called Mr Z to explain that his account was five months in arrears 
and that the use of his card had been restricted. The agent said the purpose of the call was 
to find out whether he was in any difficulty. Mr Z said that his ability to make his payments 
had been impacted by the pandemic and asked for his account to be put on hold. Mr Z was 
provided with a 90-day payment deferral  in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) guidance regarding measures which could be taken to assist customers whose 
income had been affected by the pandemic - after a successful application.
In May 2020, Capital One wrote to Mr Z to explain that as he still had outstanding arrears on 
his account, his card was now being withdrawn permanently and he was risking going into 
default. Mr Z once again got in contact with Capital One. During this call he agreed to clear 
the arrears on his card by paying £37 a month over five months and confirmed that hed get 
in touch to make the first payment by the due date of 2 July 2020. However, Mr Z didnt 
make payment and Capital One issued a default notice on 14 July 2020. Mr Z was unhappy 
with all of this and complained to our service.
One of adjudicators looked at Mr Zs complaint and didnt think that Capital One had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr Z unfairly. Mr Z disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision.
Capital One says that it agreed to a payment deferral in order to prevent interest and 
charges from being added to Mr Zs account and his arrears increasing. But this didnt alter 
the fact that Mr Z had been over his credit limit for some time, had a significant amount of 
arrears on his account and hed already been notified that he was at a risk of having action 
taken. On the other hand, Mr Z says he wouldnt have agreed to the payment deferral if hed 
been told that hed still have to pay the arrears.
Im afraid that Im not persuaded by Mr Zs argument here. Capital One didnt call Mr Z and 
offer him a payment deferral. He asked for one when Capital One got in contact to explain 
that his account was already five months in arrears and that he hadnt adhered to the terms 
of the previous plans to bring his account up to date. 
A lender is required to monitor a borrowers repayment record and any other relevant 
information it may hold and take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or 
possible financial difficulties. So not only do I think it wasnt unreasonable for Capital One to 
have contacted Mr Z in this way, Im also satisfied that its regulatory obligations required it to 
do so.
During the call, the agent explained that he wished to find out more about Mr Zs financial 
circumstances, what if anything he could pay as a result as well as let Mr Z know what help 
was available. Mr Z insisted his difficulties were temporary and he wanted a payment 
deferral. The agent did challenge Mr Z on this point and said his missed payments had 
started towards the end of 2019, which was before the pandemic had started. But Mr Z was 
directed to apply for a payment deferral online if thats what he wished to do and told if one 
was agreed this would prevent further interest and charges being added to the account. Im 
satisfied that the agent didnt say Mr Z would be able to continue using the card or that this 
would mean the account couldnt or wouldnt go on to be defaulted.
Mr Z says that when he was notified that his payment deferral application had been 
accepted he relied on a statement which said that he didnt need to make any payments. 
Although he does accept that the notification did go on to say that he would be sent 
messages as legally required, including if he was at risk of being defaulted or permanently 
losing his card, he took this to mean these were possibilities after the payment deferral had 
ended. 
I accept that Mr Z might have believed this and to some extent can see why he might have 
thought this was the case. Ive thought about what hes said. But it might help for me to 
explain that the FCA guidance which Mr Z has referred to and allowed him to apply for a 
payment deferral, was in place to provide help for customers who were experiencing 
temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. Its purpose wasnt to override the 
general forbearance rules and guidance in place for a customer who was already in pre-
existing financial difficulty, or encourage them not to take steps to address an unsustainable 
debt.
Mr Z was already five months in arrears when he applied for his payment deferral. And while 
its possible Mr Z might have believed that his difficulties were temporary and due to the 
pandemic, its difficult to agree as his missed payments clearly pre-date it by some time. So 
while I sympathise with any financial difficulty Mr Z might have been experiencing, Im not 
persuaded that any difficulty was temporary and directly due to a reduction of income 
because of the pandemic. 
In these circumstances, while I accept Capital One might have been seeking to avoid adding 
interest and charges to Mr Zs account, Im not necessarily persuaded agreeing to a 
payment deferral was in Mr Zs interests, even if this was clearly what he wanted. I think 
providing the payment deferral did offer Mr Z the opportunity to  albeit mistakenly  form the 
view he didnt need to take any action in relation to the existing arrears.
Arguably, Capital Ones agent should have reached a bespoke payment arrangement with 
Mr Z, as the call suggested he intended to, rather than refer him to Capital Ones website to 
apply for the deferral he wanted. But, in any event, Mr Z wasnt being asked to pay additional 
amounts and the interest and charges on the account were going to be frozen. So Im simply 
not persuaded by Mr Zs argument that he wouldnt have applied for, or agreed to the 
payment deferral, if he was told he might still lose the use of his card and/or his account 
could still end up being defaulted further down the line. In any event, notwithstanding Capital Ones agreement to a payment deferral, Im mindful 
that Mr Z had been over his credit limit for a number of months. This meant he wasnt able to 
use his card and he hadnt even been able to for some time. Given just how long it had 
been, I dont think it was unreasonable for Capital One to let Mr Z know that he wouldnt 
allow him to use his card going forward in May 2020. And having seen the content of the 
May 2020 letter and the resulting payment arrangement letter which followed it in June 2020, 
Im satisfied Mr Z wasnt misled into believing that making payments would result in him 
being able to use his card in future. Im also mindful that Mr Z ended up making no payments 
during the 90-day payment deferral period either.
Furthermore, by July 2020, Mr Z was already a number of months in arrears, hadnt made a 
payment for a number of months, had insisted his finances had worsened as a result of the 
pandemic; and had already failed to adhere to the terms of more than one payment 
arrangement including one agreed a matter of weeks earlier. In these circumstances, I dont 
think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Capital One to continue 
ignoring Mr Zs obvious and apparent difficulty, or inability, to make payments indefinitely. 
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Capital One to 
issue a notice of default, offering Mr Z the opportunity bring his account up-to-date before it 
would take any action, immediately upon the expiry of his 90-day payment deferral on 14 
July 2020. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Capital One didnt do anything wrong or treat 
Mr Z unfairly and it follows that Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman