DRN-4191046
The complaint
Mr W complains about the hire car Acromas Insurance Company Limited provided following 
a claim on the car hire enhancement added to his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was deemed to be a total loss and he made a claim on his policy. He had 
selected a car hire enhancement when he bought his policy. But Mr W was unhappy that he 
had to wait for three days for the car to be provided, that it wasnt like for like, and that it had 
to go back before hed received his total loss settlement. Mr W paid £70 to the hire car 
provider for a larger car. He wanted reimbursement for this and for the cost of the add-on. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Acromas had provided Mr W with the hire car he was entitled to under his policy and for the 
full 21 days entitlement. She thought Mr W hadnt paid any extra premium for the policy add-
on. So she didnt think Acromas had done anything wrong. 
Mr W replied that he would have taken cheaper insurance if hed known that he would have 
to sort out the hire car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has also complained about the hire car he was provided with under his comprehensive 
motor insurance policy. But I cant consider that here as its a complaint about a different 
business. My consideration is only about the hire car provided by Acromas under Mr Ws 
add on hire car policy. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at the policys terms and conditions and I can see that the insurer for the car hire 
add on is Acromas. This provides a hire car when the consumers car is deemed to be a total 
loss following an accident. Ive looked at the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
for the car hire add on. This states under What is insured:
Up to 21 days hire if your car is written off as a result of accidental damage, malicious 
damage, fire or theft or is not recovered following theft
The hire car will be a 3 door hatchback with a 1 litre engine.
Mr W said he had to wait for the hire car. But I can see that a hire car under the add on was 
instructed on 31 January 2022 and Mr W received this on 1 February 2022. So I dont think 
Acromas is responsible for any avoidable delay in the provision. 
From Acromas file I can see that Mr W was provided with hire for 21 days from 1 February 
2022 to 22 February 2022. Unfortunately, the hire ended before Mr W received his total loss 
payment. But Im satisfied that Mr W had the length of hire he was entitled to under the 
policy. 
Mr W explained that the three door car didnt suit his familys needs. He thought the policy 
should provide like for like. But the policy clearly provides just a three door car. And this was 
what was offered to Mr W. Mr W chose to pay the hire company £70 for a larger car. But I 
cant ask Acromas to reimburse this as it had offered him the car he was entitled to under his 
policy.
Mr W said he wanted reimbursement for the cost of the hire car add on. But I can see on his 
policy schedule that the cost was £0. So I cant reasonably ask Acromas to pay him any 
reimbursement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman