DRN-3769909
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in September 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
ten-year loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and 
omissions of the installer. Mr G says the installer misled him into believing that the panels 
would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator found that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr G and upheld the complaint. Ikano did not agree, and so 
the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
My starting point is to accept what Mr G says he was told in the sales meeting  that the 
panels would be self-funding  unless this seems implausible because the sales 
documentation makes it clear that they could not be self-funding. Normally, that would mean 
the cost and benefit of the panels being given in the same document, although not 
necessarily on the same page, so that they can be compared without having to look at 
different documents.
But in this case, I have departed from that approach, to the extent that I have treated two 
documents, the contract and the sheet titled Estimated Year One Returns, as if they were 
one. That is because Mr G has signed both of them and they only make up three pages 
between them. So in this case I think it would be artificial to say that he could not have easily 
compared them with each other and seen for himself that the cost outweighed the benefit.
Immediately above Mr Gs signature on the contract is the cash price of the panels, £7,000. 
(The interest does not appear on this document and so I will ignore it.) So for the panels to 
pay for themselves during the ten year loan period, disregarding the interest, they would 
have to make £700 a year. But the other document gives the estimated benefit in the first 
year as only £468.38. That is clearly far short of what was needed.
So I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr G about the benefits and cost of the 
panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan, and 
so I dont think it is plausible than the salesman told him otherwise. It just does not seem 
likely to me that the salesman told him the panels would pay for themselves at the same 
time as asking him to sign under two figures that made it plain that they would not.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC disagreed with my provisional decision. It pointed out that the contract does not 
show the estimated financial benefit in pounds sterling, only the estimated generation figure 
in kWh. It argued that Mr G could not be expected to work out how much this would come to 
in financial terms.
It also said that the salesman had told Mr G that the benefits would increase each year until 
they exceeded the annual cost, so that the system would eventually pay for itself at some 
point during the loan term.
Finally, it added that the system had not produced as much income as predicted. The feed-in 
tariff (FIT) income for the first year was only £193, instead of the £374 predicted by the 
salesman.
My findings
I agree that the contract does not show the financial benefit, but the other document does, 
as I said in my provisional findings. I think that the two documents, the contract and the 
Estimated Year One Returns, compared the cash price and the estimated financial benefit 
clearly and in an accessible way. Mr G was not expected to work out what the financial 
benefit might be, it was set out in the latter document.
I dont think it is likely  and I do not accept  that Mr G would have just taken the 
salesmans word for it if he had indeed said that the estimated benefit figure would increase 
each year until it met the price of the system, without asking to see something to that effect 
in writing. He was spending £7,000 plus interest, after all. On balance, Im afraid I am not 
persuaded that this was said. ( I do accept that Mr G was told that this figure would increase 
annually, as that was how solar panels were expected to work, but not that the salesman 
guaranteed that the increase would be enough for the panels to pay for themselves during 
the loan term.)
The Estimated Year One Returns sheet shows that the FIT for the first year was expected 
to be about £139  this is the Generation tariff figure. The CMC appears to have arrived at 
the figure of £374 by adding £139 to the estimated energy savings of £236.75, but that is 
nothing to do with the FIT. If the first year FIT was actually £193, then this exceeded the 
estimate.
I have considered the performance of the solar panels for the whole period from installation 
to the latest meter reading provided (in March 2022). The MCS certificate says that the 
panels were expected to produce 2,844 kWh of energy a year. The meter reading was 8,699 
kWh, which means that on average the panels have produced 2,621 kWh a year, or 92% of 
the estimate. So I think that the panels are performing within a reasonable range, and are 
not under-performing.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman