DRN-3132895
The complaint
 
Mr and Mrs P complain about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) incorrect 
record of a claim on their home insurance policy.
 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs P had a home insurance policy with RSA.  In November 2019, they contacted 
RSA to enquire if a claim could be made following storm damage. They were told that the 
claim wasnt covered. 
The policy was due to renew, and RSA sent them the renewal documents. Mr and Mrs P 
noticed that under the claims information section, a claim had been inserted for storm 
damage. Mr and Mrs P contacted RSA as they said that they hadnt made a claim but merely 
made an enquiry to be told by RSA that the claim wouldnt be covered. They said they 
couldnt understand how an enquiry was now listed as a claim and whether this needed to 
be declared in future home insurance quotes. They also asked for the renewal documents to 
be re-issued removing the claim. 
RSA said that claims enquiries dont need to be declared on insurance quotes. It later said 
that the storm damage wasnt covered under the policy and the claim was declined. It 
responded that it couldnt advise for other insurers as they could take declined claims into 
consideration, so Mr and Mrs P should declare this. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to RSA. This now meant that the event was on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). They said this increased their premium and they found it 
difficult to get competitive quotes from other insurers. 
In its final response, it said that in order to check if a claim is valid, it needed to register the 
details on its system. Which meant it would be on the CUE. As Mr and Mrs Ps intention was 
to make a claim if cover was applicable, it was recorded but the claim was noted as declined 
with no payments made. It said that it was unable to remove the claim from the system or 
renewal documentation due to their intention to make a claim. But confirmed that it had not 
affected the premiums or any other discounts on their policy. 
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with this outcome and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He felt the 
correspondence that RSA sent to Mr and Mrs P regarding the effect on their policy was 
contradictory. His view was that RSA should amend the CUE to show that the claim was 
closed as no cover, rather than the claim being shown as open. So, he recommended that 
RSA amend the CUE to more accurately reflect what had happened and pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Mr and Mrs P accepted the view. RSA did not. It said that by law it had to report incidences 
that could arise in a claim. Therefore, it was right for it to do so on the CUE. It confirmed that 
it would amend the CUE to show closed. It asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint. I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs P held a home insurance policy with RSA. In November 2019 they contacted 
RSA to enquire about storm damage that had happened at their property. As no claim was 
made, they were surprised to find this to have been recorded as a claim on their renewal 
documents. The main issue of this complaint is whether RSA ought to have recorded this as 
a claim or not.
RSA explained that it was required to register claims and report data to the CUE. So, it was 
right to report the incident to the CUE, even though the claim wasnt pursued. I agree that it 
is important that incidents are recorded, but those incidents should be correctly recorded. 
How those incidents are recorded can have an effect on policyholders premiums or can 
cause policyholders difficulties in the future. Mr and Mrs P said that when they obtained 
comparison quotes for cover (one with the claim recorded and one without the claim 
recorded) the quote with the claim recorded, was far higher than the quote that had no claim 
recorded. 
In addition, insurers have a duty to make accurate records and can edit or remove entries 
that it has made.  As CUEs best practice guide promotes the need to add all costs to CUE, 
regardless of whether the claim is paid out or not, wed say its reasonable for insurers to 
record these costs on the database. 
RSA accepted that the claim wasnt correctly recorded and have confirmed that the incident 
has now been amended to show as closed. The incident did record an amount of £0. It also 
recorded the dates of when Mr and Mrs P enquired about the claim. From the evidence, it 
shows that the claim date and loss set up date were quite close in time. So, I think its 
possible that an insurer could conclude that the claim didnt progress. But I should make it 
clear that generally any application for insurance will ask a question of whether someone 
has had any losses or made any claims whether insured or not. If the policy asks a question 
of this nature, Mr and Mrs P would have to disclose the enquiry. 
Mr and Mrs P said that they found a new provider who didnt take into consideration the 
claim information, as the balance of the claim was recorded as £0. I can see that the renewal 
quote for cover, provided by RSA was higher than the premium that Mr and Mrs P ultimately 
paid for their insurance. But Mr and Mrs P said that they couldnt be sure that the new cover 
they obtained, was exactly the same level of cover. Although, I accept what Mr and Mrs P 
said about the level of cover, I think the policy must have provided them with enough 
protection for their needs, as they confirmed that they did purchase it. 
Putting things right
Although RSA has now amended and corrected the record on the CUE, I am satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs P suffered a level of distress and inconvenience as a result of this error. For that 
reason, I think it is fair and reasonable that RSA compensate Mr and Mrs P to the amount of 
£100 for the distress caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay compensation of £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused. It should pay this amount within 28 days of the date we tell it 
Mr and Mrs P have accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman