DRN-4276502
The complaint
Mrs P, through her representative, complains that Mortgage Express has treated her unfairly 
by overcharging her on her mortgage  during a period when it was no longer offering new 
mortgages. Mrs P says that because of her circumstances and the tighter lending rules 
around affordability checks, introduced as part of the Financial Authoritys (FCA) review in 
2014, she was unable to re-mortgage elsewhere and as such, she is considered a mortgage 
prisoner.
What happened
In October 2007 Mrs P was offered a residential mortgage with GMAC-RFC. The mortgage 
was taken out on interest only terms over 25 years. Mrs P agreed the mortgage on a 
discounted variable interest rate of 1.25% below GMACs SVR until 30 June 2009  giving a 
rate of 6.49%. After which Mrs Ps mortgage would revert to GMACs Standard Variable 
Rate (SVR) for the remainder of the term of the mortgage  which at the time was 7.74%. 
Soon after the mortgage was taken, in early 2008, Mrs Ps mortgage was transferred to 
Mortgage Express  a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bradford and Bingley (B&B).  
As a result of the global financial crisis in 2008/09, B&B was nationalised in in late 2008 and 
along with Mortgage Express as its subsidiary, stopped offering new mortgage products. 
This meant that when Mrs Ps fixed rate ended on 30 June 2009 and the mortgage reverted 
to the SVR, she was unable to apply for new fixed rate product with Mortgage Express as it 
had no alternative interest rate products to offer her. Mrs P says that due to her 
circumstances and tighter lending conditions, shes been unable to re-mortgage with a 
different lender. As such Mrs P has remained on Mortgage Express SVR to date. 
Over the years between the mortgage starting in 2007 and the complaint being raised with 
Mortgage Express on 7 September 2021 there have been a number of changes to both the 
Bank of England base rate (base rate) and the SVR. The key things to note regarding the 
history of the changes is as follows
From the mortgage start date in 2007 until 1 January 2009, all the variations made to 
the SVR were made by Mortgage Express. These changes were largely made soon 
after changes to the base rate and largely by the same amount  maintaining a 
margin of 1.99% until 1 May 2008 and then 2.00% thereafter.
By March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 
2.00% to 4.34%. 
From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were 
made soon after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount.
In September 2021 Mrs Ps representative raised this complaint with Mortgage Express on 
her behalf. The complaint letter set out in summary:
Mortgage Express withdrew from the mortgage market in 2009 and stopped offering 
new interest rate products. Because of the tighter rules around affordability checks 
introduced as part of the FCAs review in 2014, Mrs P became a mortgage prisoner 
as she was unable to move her mortgage to another lender, with no choice but to 
remain on Mortgage Express standard variable rate.
The SVR charged by Mortgage Express since Mrs Ps mortgage reverted was 
unfairly high, especially in these circumstances where Mrs P was unable to re-
mortgage with another lender.
The way Mortgage Express margin between the SVR and the base rate increased 
over the years is unfair.
Mortgage Express discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do.
Mortgage Express actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCAs Handbook 
whereby a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. And a breach of MCOB 11.8.1 which provides that in situations where a 
customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated mortgage contract with their 
existing lender or a new mortgage lender, a lender should not take advantage of the 
customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics.
Mrs P seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest she paid
on her mortgage and the amount she would have paid had it been subject to what
she deems to be a reasonable rate.
Mortgage Express responded to the complaint on 1 November 2021. In summary it said it 
did not uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Part of the complaint about events that occurred more than six years before the 
complaint was made, had been brought too late.
The SVR is not a base rate tracker mortgage. The mortgage offer states the SVR is
variable (in the given circumstances) under the mortgage terms.
The transfer from GMAC-RFC to Mortgage Express did not affect any of the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Ps Mortgage. The terms and conditions set out when the SVR 
may be varied. When Mortgage Express exercised its right to vary the SVR, it did so 
in accordance with the terms and conditions.
The alleged implied term said to derive from relevant case law does not apply here. 
As the mortgage conditions relevant to Mrs Ps mortgage agreement expressly set
out the basis on which Mortgage Express can vary its SVR, it is therefore not 
necessary to imply any further terms into the mortgage agreement.
There was no express guarantee in the mortgage offer that Mrs P would be provided 
with a new mortgage in the future. Neither was there any obligation on GMAC-RFC 
or subsequently Mortgage Express to provide a new mortgage. 
If Mrs P was unhappy with the interest rate being charged on her mortgageby Mortgage Express, she was free to re-mortgage elsewhere, without incurring an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) from 1 July 2009 onwards. Mortgage Express 
provides details of a comparison tool on its website to make it easy for customers to 
compare deals and switch to another lender if they wish to do so.
At all relevant times, Mortgage Express has acted as a reasonable lender and 
complied with all of its regulatory obligations, whether under the principles set out in 
the FCA Handbook, MCOB or otherwise.
Mrs Ps representative referred this complaint to our service on 24 March 2022. 
Our investigator issued his opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant
for Mrs P. In summary, he said:
The complaint was raised on 7 September 2021, so he concluded that the complaint
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to this,
had been raised in time. Which would be from 7 September 2015 onward. So, he
was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 
7 September 2015 onward were fair and reasonable.
That under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within
three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have
become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained why
he thought Mrs P ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for complaint 
more than three years before making her complaint. So, he didnt think this part of 
the rule gave her any more time to complain.
When considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 7 September 2015
onward, he would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair.
In addition to considering the fairness of the express terms of the contract, he would 
also need to consider whether  as suggested  Mortgage Express has breached an 
implied term of the mortgage contract. He concluded both of these things were part 
of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP 
rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 7 September 2015 
onward is fair and reasonable.
In the event he recommends any redress, he would only be able to award for the
period that is in scope of this complaint  7 September 2015 onward.
Our investigator then went on to provide his opinion, not upholding the merits of
Mrs Ps complaint. In summary he said:
Mrs Ps mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate, she was
made sufficiently aware of the relevant terms set out by GMAC-RFC and 
Mortgage Express has sought to charge interest in accordance with those terms.
The investigator set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mrs P 
experienced because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. 
And the need to consider whether Mortgage Express had exercised the terms fairly. 
He was not persuaded Mortgage Express varied the rate unfairly.The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely increased in 2009. The 
investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the wider market as a 
result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and 
was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.
Mortgage Express has provided information to show that its cost of funds did not 
reduce in line with the base rate during this period. The interest rate on the 
Government loan Mortgage Express received through State Aid was LIBOR linked, 
rather than to the base rate. At the time of the global financial crisis, LIBOR 
increased when the base rate fell. So, he didnt think it was unreasonable that 
Mortgage Express didnt pass on all of the reductions to its SVR, in line with 
mortgage terms.
For the remainder of the period (until the point this complaint was made), the only
changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were made soon after changes were 
made to the base rate, and by the same amount.
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that 
Mortgage Express has acted unfairly or unreasonably  including committing any 
breach of the suggested implied term, or that Mrs P has overpaid interest. 
The investigator went on to consider Mrs Ps complaint about being a mortgage 
prisoner. He explained why, in his opinion, Mortgage Express had not breached the 
relevant MCOB rules and why Mrs P hasnt been treated any less favourably than 
other Mortgage Express customers. As an inactive lender Mortgage Express doesnt 
offer any products to any of its customers. 
Mortgage Express met its obligation by contacting Mrs P during the period where the 
FCA had relaxed affordability requirements  to let her know of the possible option of 
being able to re-mortgage with a different lender on possibly more favourable terms. 
Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said, and I quote: 
Our client does not have any further submissions in respect of the factual 
circumstances giving rise to the complaint but does not consider that the level of 
detail given in the Investigator decision is sufficient to enable our client to understand 
the apparent justifications for the rates charged. In particular, the decision contains a 
number of general statements with regard to LIBOR and rates generally in the 
market. Without more detail on these points for example, our client cannot accept the 
decision.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account the relevant law, 
regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mrs P. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help her to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
I have explained the position relating to Mortgage Express objection to our service 
considering Mrs Ps complaint under the DISP rules relating to time limits for bringing 
complaints.
Ive also set out our investigators findings in relation to this. Neither Mortgage Express or 
Mrs P have sought to challenge the findings of the investigator on this point. But for 
completeness, I can confirm that I largely agree with the investigators findings when 
considering our jurisdiction. The approach the investigator took reflects the decision of the 
High Court in an application for judicial review of another Ombudsmans decision in a similar 
case. As such I am satisfied:
I do have the power to consider a complaint about the amount and fairness of the 
interest Mrs P has been charged, but only from 7 September 2015 onwards  the 
complaint about interest charges before that date are out of time. 
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is 
necessary for me to take into account the historic changes to Mortgage Express 
SVR, since the SVR charged during the period that is in time, is the result not only of 
decisions Mortgage Express made during that period, but also the result of decisions 
it made prior to it. This includes considering whether the rate charged derived from 
earlier reliance on an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the 
contract. Thats because each time Mortgage Express charges interest, it must have 
a fair and lawful basis for doing so.
For similar reasons, Im satisfied our service only has the power to consider Mrs Ps 
complaint about her ability to obtain access a new interest rate with Mortgage 
Express in the last six years leading up to her complaint being made  so from 
7 September 2015 onwards. Mrs P says shes unhappy about being on the SVR and 
her inability to access a new interest rate with Mortgage Express, or switch to a 
different lender. This is something she would have known at the time over the years 
since 2009 and as such Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for 
complaint more than three years before making her complaint. So, I didnt think this 
part of the rule gives her any more time to complain.
Access to interest rates
As explained, our service can only consider Mrs Ps complaint about her access to interest 
rates from 7 September 2015 onwards. In the event I recommend any redress, I would only 
be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint. That said, when considering 
this part of the complaint, I think its necessary for me to set out the background to 
Mortgage Express lending structure.
Mortgage Express is whats known as a closed book lender. Its parent company B&B 
collapsed and was nationalised in 2008. Because B&B is government owned, it cant offer 
new lower interest rates that would compete with other lenders. The same applies for 
Mortgage Express as a wholly owned subsidiary of B&B. After this date and after any 
customers fixed term products ended, all B&B and Mortgage Express customers were charged the same SVR rate. Its part of the terms of the nationalisation that B&B (and 
Mortgage Express as its subsidiary) only offer a standard variable rate  which is 
comparable to the SVRs of other lenders. 
I have considered the representatives point that Mortgage Express has breached Principle 6 
of the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.8.1  by not offering Mrs P a new interest rate. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded it has. All of Mortgage Express customers are in the same 
position, and Mrs P isnt being treated any differently to them.
It is generally expected that new interest rates are available when an old one expires  but 
theres no regulatory or contractual right to a new rate. So in light of all of the above, I dont 
think Mortgage Express has done anything wrong in not offering a new rate to Mrs P. 
As a closed book lender, Mortgage Express should not stand in the way of customers 
moving to another lender. And it was required to issue customers a mortgage prisoner 
letter, if they were eligible for one, to help them do so. Its unclear from the limited 
information available whether this happened in this case, but at the very least  in line with 
the good practice offered by other lenders dealing with closed and nationalised loan books  
its only fair that Mortgage Express should direct its customers to seek independent 
mortgage advice so they can explore whether its possible to switch their mortgage to a 
different lender with more preferential interest rates. Mortgage Express provides details of a 
comparison tool on its website to make it easy for customers to compare deals and switch to 
another lender if they wish to do so. 
So, for the reasons given I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
The fairness of the interest charged on Mrs Ps mortgage.
I must consider whether from 7 September 2015 onwards, Mrs P has paid an unfairly high 
rate of interest. To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out 
the relevant terms themselves:
The relevant section of mortgage offer issued to Mrs P by GMAC in October 2007 set out 
that her two-year discounted interest rate would operate as follows:
Description of this mortgage
This mortgage is provided by GMAC-RFC Ltd.
A standard variable rate of 7.74%, with a discount of 1.25% until 30 June 2009 giving a 
current rate payable of 6.49%.
From the 01 July 2009 the rate that will apply is GMAC-RFC Ltd standard variable rate, 
currently 7.74%, for the remaining term of the mortgage." The relevant supplementary 
mortgage conditions (2007) go on to say:
The term standard variable rate is defined in section 1 of the Mortgage Conditions as:
our standard variable rate of interest which can be changed by us at any time before and 
after completion under condition 3 of section 3. If we enter into a transfer, the standard 
variable rate will be set by or on behalf of the transferee. The transferee can set the standard 
variable rate independently of any rate set by GMAC-RFC Limited or any other transferee. Condition 3 of section 3 of the Mortgage Conditions entitled Changes to the standard 
variable rate provides in relevant part as follows:
3.1 If the interest rate is the standard variable rate we may vary it for any of the following 
reasons:
(a)to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in 
the Bank of England base rate or interest rates generally;
(b)to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in 
the cost of the funds we use in our mortgage lending business;
(c)to reflect a change which has occurred, or which we reasonably expect to occur, in 
the interest rates charged by other mortgage lenders;
(d)to reflect a change in the law or a decision by a court; or
(e)to reflect a decision or recommendation by an ombudsman, regulator or similar body.
3.2 We will give you notice of any change in the standard variable rate in one of the ways set 
out in section 7. Any change will take effect on the date set out in the notice. This cannot be 
earlier than the date the notice is given. If we do not set out in the notice any date on which 
the change is to take effect, the change will take effect on the date the notice is given. 
Section 7 deals with when notices are given.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out that when the initial fixed rate expired in 2009, 
the mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR and that the SVR could be varied in line with 
terms of the mortgage. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that GMAC or 
subsequently Mortgage Express were obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have their 
SVR track the base rate. Theres also nothing in the terms and conditions that entitled Mrs P 
to a new interest rate. To that extent, the mortgage has operated as it should.
Ive considered whether the terms in Mrs Ps agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect GMAC (and later Mortgage Express) legitimate interests and whether 
the variation clauses are sufficiently transparent.
Mortgage Express funding was secured at B&B Group level. This consisted solely of an 
inter-company loan from B&B. Decisions as to the setting of the Mortgage Express SVR 
were made exclusively at B&B Group level. B&B has said that the primary factor in relation 
to the movement of the mortgage Express SVR during the period in question has been the 
cost of funding its mortgages. Therefore, largely relying on term 3.1(b) when it made 
variations to its SVR. 
Taking everything into account, I am not satisfied that the terms necessarily meet the wider 
transparency requirements. While grammatically they are easy to follow, the terms allowing 
for the SVR to be varied are broad, and the circumstances in which changes might be made 
give Mortgage Express significant discretion about when it can make changes to the SVR 
and by how much.
That said, this alone is not determinative for the case. The central issue I need to decide is
whether there has been any unfairness to Mrs P from September 2015 onwards. The 
fairness of the underlying variation clauses will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent to which, the terms 
have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mrs P. I think that is the ultimate 
question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
When considering everything Im satisfied Mortgage Express has operated within the 
relevant terms and conditions, Ill explain why.
Has Mortgage Express exercised the terms fairly?
As previously explained, changes made to Mortgage Express SVR were decided at B&B 
Group level. Throughout my decision, when referring to variations made to the SVR, for ease 
I will refer to Mortgage Express as setting the SVR.
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mrs Ps mortgage since 7 September 2015, why its
necessary for me to consider historic changes to Mortgage Express SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes Mortgage Express has 
made to the SVR since Mrs P took her mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that 
anything Mortgage Express has done in varying the rate has led to Mrs P being treated 
unfairly in the period I can consider. I have set out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence the B&B 
Group has been able to provide in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to Mrs P. 
Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is 
disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate 
to accept the information and evidence the B&B Group has provided in confidence, subject 
to the summary of it I have set out in this decision.
In 2007, when Mrs P took her mortgage with GMAC, the margin between with the base rate 
and the SVR was 1.99%. Soon after, at the time of takeover, Mortgage Express increased 
the margin to 2.00%. From that point, until 1 January 2009, all the variations Mortgage 
Express made to the SVR were made soon after the changes to the base rate and by the 
same amount  maintaining a margin of 2.00% throughout this period.
By March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 2.00% to 
4.34%. Whilst the SVR did reduce during this period, it didnt reduce by the same proportion 
as the reduction in the base rate.
Ive already set out that Mrs Ps mortgage was not a (lifetime) tracker mortgage, so 
Mortgage Express was not contractually obligated to set its SVR at a level that tracked the 
base rate for duration of the mortgage term. Nor is it the case that Mrs Ps mortgage had a 
cap preventing Mortgage Express SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above 
base rate. So, there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited Mortgage Express 
from setting the SVR at a level whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate would 
change. But that doesnt mean that Mortgage Express could set the SVR at whatever level it 
chose. The term enabling Mortgage Express to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent 
businesses taking advantage of customers), and Mortgage Express had to ensure that in 
varying the SVR it only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
I consider the main variations to the SVR to have taken place in 2009. The earlier increase 
of 0.01% at the time of takeover being so marginal and of less significance than the later 
variations.
At this time in 2009, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change 
as a result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including B&B and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged 
across the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of 
analysis by both the Bank of England1 and the FCA2 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce 
significantly during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as 
did their prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors that are not directly 
linked to base rate. There was a substantial risk to all lenders during this period and they all 
had to find ways to mitigate that risk while balancing the need to treat customers fairly.
The B&B Group has told us that, like many lenders at the time, B&B was predominantly 
funded by wholesale funding. The cost of which was in the most part, contractually defined 
by reference to LIBOR and LIBOR generally followed base rate prior to the financial crisis. 
As a result, changes in base rate tended to result in changes to cost of funding. Before the
financial crisis, changes in costs of its retail funding also tended to correspond to changes in
base rate. 
However, during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between LIBOR and
base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate reductions
to LIBOR or to B&Bs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale funding 
became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default  B&B 
in particular has shown how its credit rating was impacted and the implications this had on 
its ability to raise funds and the cost of its funding  including how this impacted the cost of 
the inter-company loan it sourced to Mortgage Express.  
To avoid collapse, State Aid in the form of a Working Capital Facility loan was extended to 
B&B from September 2008. With the aid came several conditions on how B&B could operate 
and obligations on how and when it should look to repay the loan. Understandably, this 
significantly impacted its commercial strategy and with it, the cost of funding mortgages like 
Mrs Ps. To add to this, B&B was nationalised in September 2008 and its entire share capital 
was transferred to HM treasury (such that B&B became a wholly owned subsidiary, and 
Mortgage Express an indirect subsidiary of HM Treasury).
So, whilst the State Aid extended to B&B also benefitted Mortgage Express, it came with 
certain obligation on B&B which also filtered through to the operation of Mortgage Express 
and as such are relevant factors when considering the impact this had on the setting of 
Mortgage Express SVR. 
Mortgage Express reduced the SVR on several occasions during this period, just not by the 
same proportion as the base rate. Given the documented increase in cost of funding across 
the industry, including the B&B Group specifically, and the obligations surrounding 
Government requirements and the Working Capital Facility loan, I am satisfied the Group 
balanced its own financial position and obligations at the time with the impact such changes 
would have on customers like Mrs P. 
While I note and have considered the evidence relied on by Mrs Ps representative,
I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided by the Group on 
the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I have said above, 
I have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that leads me to a different 
conclusion from Mrs Ps representative.
1 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what
determines them and why do they matter?
2 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10I have not seen any evidence to suggest the changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR 
were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the evidence I've seen satisfies me that 
Mortgage Express acted to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to 
treat Mrs P fairly. And, as explained, I'm further satisfied that the evidence Mortgage 
Express has provided is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
So to conclude, I am not persuaded that Mortgage Express operated the terms in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mrs Ps mortgage. 
I dont think there is any basis to say that it somehow contributed to Mrs P being charged an 
unfairly high rate of interest on her mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive seen 
no evidence to say that the interest she was charged during that period was unfair for any 
other reason.
Finally, I note that Mrs Ps representative argues that Mortgage Express has breached what 
it says was an implied term, not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, 
capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was such a 
duty in the present case, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express did not breach it since it 
approached the question of varying the SVR fairly and in line with the terms of the contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as such I dont expect Mortgage 
Express to take any action in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman