DRN-4197175
The complaint
Mr C complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined a claim on 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In December 2022, Mr C was made aware by his local water authority that he had a 
leak on his water supply. As a result of this Mr C made a claim on his home 
insurance policy.
LV sent its contractor to trace and access the leak. It made Mr C aware that he would 
need to pay the policy excess (£350) and if the leak was found to be a result of wear 
and tear then he would need to pay an additional £100 fee to its contractor.  
The contractor concluded that the leak was external but within the property boundary. 
It was able to fix the leak, however the pipe in its expert opinion was damaged by 
way of gradual deterioration (general wear and tear). As this is excluded under the 
terms of the policy LV declined the claim for accidental damage and Mr C was 
informed, he would need to pay the contractor the £100 fee.
Mr C disagrees that the pipe was damaged by wear and tear. He thinks it couldve 
been damaged accidently by vehicles and material weight put on the ground from a 
skip when his neighbour was having work completed.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, Mr C didnt agree. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint and Ill explain my reasoning below.
With any insurance claim the onus is on the policyholder to show that they have a valid claim 
thats covered by the policy.
The policy covers Accidental damage to underground pipes. And accidental damage is 
defined within the policy as damage caused suddenly by external means which is not 
expected and not deliberate.
LV appointed a drainage and water mains specialist. It determined in its expert opinion that 
the pipe had gradually deteriorated. It said black alkathene pipes that were used in the past 
are more prone to wear and tear and the industry now use blue polyethylene pipes that are 
less prone to wearing compared to the black pipes. 
Mr C says as the pipe is split, the damage couldve been caused by compression from 
vehicles and material weight put on the ground from a skip when their neighbour was having 
work done. 
Mr C has provided photographs of the damaged pipe that was cut out. Its not disputed that 
the pipe is damaged, but this doesnt demonstrate that the leak was caused by accidental 
damage. Ive not seen any supporting evidence such as a professional opinion to show that 
this is how the pipe was damaged or photographs showing evidence of damage to the 
ground which match to the area that the pipe was damaged. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded the damage is more likely than not to have been 
caused by wear and tear. I therefore wont be directing LV to do anything further on this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman