DRN-2785646
The complaint
Mr K complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has unfairly declined his claim for 
legal expenses insurance.
Amtrust uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance policy on its behalf, 
so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr K is a judge of the Senior Courts of England and Wales and holds a legal expenses 
insurance policy with Amtrust that covers him for employment disputes. He sits in the higher 
courts pursuant to section 9 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and claims that the failure of the 
Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Lord Chancellor to pay an additional sum for this work 
amounts to a breach of the Part Time Worker (Prevention of Less Favourable Treatment) 
Regulations 2000. For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr Ks legal claim as a section 9 claim 
throughout the rest of this decision.
Mr K is represented in this matter by his solicitor  Leigh Day  who represent a number of 
other judges bringing section 9 claims in the Employment Tribunal. He approached Amtrust 
in May 2019 for assistance in funding his employment dispute using his legal expenses 
policy. The solicitor arranged for the claim be funded under a cost share proposal (CSP), 
whereby the cost of the litigation would be split equally between all of the section 9 claimants 
represented by Leigh Day  meaning that all claimants have the potential to benefit equally 
for work undertaken on the claim (either by the solicitor, or advocacy by counsel on the 
groups behalf, for example).
Amtrust declined the claim, however, as it said the policy does not provide cover for legal 
costs:
If your claim is part of a class action or will be affected by or will affect the outcome 
of other claims.
The insurer said that Mr Ks employment dispute was part of a class action and was 
therefore excluded. 
Mr K complained that Amtrust had acted unfairly, as he does not consider his claim to be 
part of a class action. In summary, he submits:
Class actions were introduced by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and 
are a specific legal concept existing in the Competition Appeal Tribunal  not the 
Employment Tribunal. They are brought by a single claimant on behalf of the whole 
class and must gain permission from the Competition Tribunal to proceed. However, 
in the section 9 litigation, each claimant will have their own individual claim against 
the MoJ/Lord Chancellor with their own individual claim number allocated by the 
Employment Tribunal. In this instance, there is no single or lead claimant bringing the 
claim on behalf of the group and every claimant has their own individual claim.
If the claim were successful, there would be no collective or single remedy applied to 
all those litigating the claim, as the damages paid would be specific to each individual 
claimant depending on their judicial sitting history  rather than a pot of money being 
distributed among those in the same group (as is the case with class actions). 
The insurer has used the Cambridge Dictionary definition of a class action (as legal 
action organised by a group of people who have suffered the same problem) which 
is incorrect as the concept already exists in English Law. It is not fair for the insurer to 
override or ignore the legal interpretation for the purposes of its exclusion. The fact 
that Leigh Day are choosing to simplify the funding process by using a CSP does not 
change the legal status of the claim, but rather makes it more cost effective.
The fact that other individuals are already bringing the same or similar claims does 
not make it a class action as there are often numerous incidents where individual 
claims have been litigated on similar or identical facts against the same respondent  
which are not defined as class actions or group claims. There is a clear legal 
distinction between a class action and a group of similar but individual claims which 
are being funded by way of a CSP for the benefit of litigants. Without a claim, there 
would be no redress.
The success of Mr Ks claim depends on the facts of his individual matter  i.e. 
whether the work he has personally carried out when sitting in the higher courts was 
equivalent to that of a High Court Judge. If this work is not deemed equivalent, his 
claim in the Employment Tribunal fails, whereas other judges claims on different 
facts might still succeed.
Leigh Day have had other claims covered by insurers in the past where there is a 
CSP. It cannot be right that another client pursuing a claim that is being managed as 
a group in a similar way can have their claim covered when Mr Ks is refused.
The second part of the exclusion clause is nonsensical as English and Wales operate 
within a common law legal system, meaning its possible for all claims to both be 
affected by or [to] affect the outcome of other claims such that the insurer could 
decline cover for any legal expenses claim  It is an unfair term and should be 
disapplied. 
Amtrust disagreed and continued to decline Mr Ks claim. It said:
The exclusion is applicable where the insured is in a group of people who are all 
pursuing the same opponent. Even if they pursue the matter separately, they are still 
part of a group of people with the same claim even if they are not with the same 
solicitor. And while the term class action doesnt necessarily mean what is intended 
in English law, the intention of the exclusion is to avoid covering large group claims.
In this instance, regardless of whether Mr K is joining a CSP, he will still be part of a 
group of people making the same claim and pursuing the same issue as others. The 
cost sharing members are its own group and part of a larger group of people all 
pursuing the same or a similar issue. They are making the same claim in substance 
rather than form  therefore the exclusion applies. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 April 2021. I said I didnt intend to 
uphold it, and set out the following reasoning:
The substantive issue in this complaint comes down to how the term class action should be 
interpreted in the absence of any particular definition having been assigned to it under the policy terms and conditions. Mr K submits that a class action is a specific legal concept introduced by the 
Consumer Rights Acts 2015 (CRA 2015) and should therefore be construed as such. On the other 
hand, Amtrust submit that the term should be afforded its naturally understood meaning of a group of 
litigants seeking the same outcome or pursuing the same opponent.
When considering the scope of the term class action and its meaning within the context of English 
law, its helpful first to examine the different ways in which a group of litigants can bring the same (or 
similar) legal action in the UK Courts. Traditionally, the terminology class action was only used in the 
context of the US legal system and a few other jurisdictions around the world, and typically refers to 
an opt out form of litigation where potential claimants fall within a defined class and will be included 
in a claim unless they choose to opt out.
Group litigation procedures have also long existed in English law, but they havent historically been 
referred to as class actions. The Civil Procedure Rules, for example, set out the formal collective 
action procedures available for use in the High Court. These include:
Group litigation orders;
Representative actions; and
Claims that can be conveniently disposed of in the same proceedings by the court.
All of these group litigation procedures operate on an opt-in basis whereby all claimants have to be 
part of a given claim in order to share in any remedy. There is no scope for an opt-out style of class 
action, and neither is this terminology used within the Civil Procedure Rules itself. These procedures 
are also only available for use in the High Court - and not in the Employment Tribunal, which is where 
Mr Ks case is being pursued.
The Employment Tribunal has its own set of rules and procedures for group litigation. Rule 9 of the 
Employment Tribunal Rules of Procedure 2013 allows for multiple claimants by way of two or more 
individuals making their claims on the same claim form if they give rise to common or related issues of 
fact or law. Rule 36 of the 2013 Rules allows the Employment Tribunal to specify one or more claims 
as a lead case for it to consider while staying the related claims-with the decision of the Tribunal 
subsequently being binding on the other related claims. The Tribunal also has general case 
management powers under Rule 29 of the 2013 rules to consolidate claims if this will save costs and 
time (e.g. where two claims arise out of substantially similar facts). But again, in common with the Civil 
Procedure Rules, there is no reference in the Employment Tribunal Rules of Procedure 2013 to class 
actions or of the multiple/consolidated/lead case systems being termed as such.
A new category of group action was, however, subsequently introduced by the CRA 2015 which is 
more akin to the class-action lawsuits seen in the USA. Schedule 8 of the Act amended sections 47A 
and 47B of the Competition Act 1998, to allow for collective proceedings to be brought by multiple 
claimants in the Competition Appeals Tribunal (CAT)  the first such system to make allowances for 
an opt-out form of group litigation in English Law. In the recent Supreme Court case (brought by our 
former chief ombudsman) Mastercard Incorporated and others v Walter Hugh Merricks CBE [2020] 
UKSC 51  Lord Briggs said there are three key features of these collective proceedings:
1) Claims by any number of claimants may be pursued on their behalf by a single representative 
who may, but need not be, a member of the class. The claims need not be identical, and they 
need not all be against all the defendants, but they must all raise the same, similar or related 
issues of fact or law.
2) The remedy sought may, but need not always, be the award of what are called aggregate 
damages. This type of damages provides just compensation for the loss suffered by the 
claimant class as a whole, but the amount need not be computed by reference to an 
assessment of the amount of damages recoverable by each member of the class individually.
3) The CAT has discretion as to how aggregate damages (if recovered) are to be distributed 
among members of the class.I acknowledge that Schedule 8 of the CRA 2015 references collective proceedings. However, in the 
Merricks case, the Supreme Court adopted the terminology of class actions where it was used 
synonymously with, and as a term of art for, collective proceedings in the CAT. For example. Lord 
Sales in his judgment set out:
Class actions
A new class action regime was Introduced in the United Kingdom In 2015 as part of a wider 
set of reforms of private actions for breaches of competition law. The central rationale for any 
class action regime Is that It enables claimants to benefit from the same economies of scale 
as are already naturally enjoyed by the defendant as a single litigant. It does so by allowing 
numerous Individual claims to be combined into a single claim brought on behalf of a class of 
persons.
But in reference to this regime of class actions. Lord Sales said:
The regime Is limited in scope to claims to which 47A of the Act applies. These are, broadly 
speaking, claims for redress for loss or damage caused by an Infringement or alleged 
Infringement of competition law.
In the Merricks case. Lord Sales goes on to differentiate between Group actions which enable a 
(potentially large) number of claimants to litigate common Issues together, allowing them to share 
costs and obtain one judgment and Collective proceedings brought under section 47B of the Act that 
require judicial certification by the CAT in order to proceed. But as set out above, the Court only refers 
to the latter as class actions  it does not group all formal group action procedures in English law 
(such as those used in the High Court or Employment Tribunal) under this umbrella. And Lord Sales 
said that the new regime of class actions is limited in scope to breaches of competition law.
So, in light of the considerations set out above, Ive considered what the term class action means in 
the context of Mr Ks legal expenses policy in the absence of any specific definition having been 
assigned to it. When a court interprets a contract, it seeks to determine what a reasonable person 
would have understood the parties to have meant by the language used, where the reasonable 
person is taken to have all the background knowledge which would have been reasonably available to 
the parties at the time of the contract (see the judgment of Lord Hoffman in Chartbrook Ltd v 
Persimmon Homes Ltd [2009] UKHL 38). When a certain phrase has a natural and ordinary meaning, 
it will generally be given that meaning. But where it has a technical meaning, it will usually be 
interpreted in accordance with its technical meaning unless the context or the policy wording has 
altered that meaning. If, however, a phrase has a natural and a technical meaning, then which one 
applies is to be determined in the context of the contract and also in line with what yields to 
commercial common sense.
Amtrust acknowledges that there is no definitive definition of a class action and that this creates 
some unpredictability. It seeks to rely on what it says is an ordinary dictionary definition meaning: 
legal action organised by a group of people who have the same problem But I note that this is just 
one of several potential dictionary definitions (with some referring to a single action thats 
representative of others, while others refer to group action being pursued where interests are 
aligned). However, the definition/wording relied upon by Amtrust is not found anywhere within Mr Ks 
policy document. So I dont think it can reasonably be said that this is how the term would be 
objectively construed by the reasonable person. Amtrust has said itself that there is no definitive 
definition of class action, and there is also no corroborative context within the policy document to 
support its interpretation of the term either. So I dont agree that the reasonable person would 
necessarily understand the term in line with Amtrusts definition; particularly when there is also 
another technical meaning that can be attributed to it.
Taking account of the CRA 2015 and the recent judgment of the Supreme Court in the Merricks case, 
its clear that the term class action also has a technical meaning in English law (i.e. referring to 
collective proceedings brought in the CAT for loss or damage caused by an infringement of 
competition law). In the circumstances of Mr Ks claim, the term is used within a legal expenses policy 
in the context of bringing legal proceedings. So, against this background, I consider that a court would 
likely interpret class action in line with this technical meaning in law. In my judgment, this is what the parties would have likely understood the term to have meant in the context of a legal expenses policy 
and is also the interpretation that yields to commercial common sense. I appreciate this is a consumer 
policy, but nonetheless, given there is seemingly no definitive natural or ordinary definition of class 
action that a reasonable consumer would readily understand, I still think the technical meaning would 
likely be considered by the court as being the correct one intended by the parties in these 
circumstances.
So, bearing this interpretation in mind, it does not appear that Mr Ks legal action fits the criteria of 
being a class action in line with the technical meaning of the term. It is not part of any collective 
proceedings being brought on behalf of a particular class in the CAT for a breach of competition law. 
It also does not seemingly require judicial certification in order to proceed, and neither will aggregate 
damages be split between all claimants if the action is successful, as Leigh Day have said that the 
damages for each claimant will be dependent on their individual circumstances, such as their sitting 
history. There is also no lead claim being pursued by a single representative on the judges behalf, as 
several sample cases will be reviewed by the Tribunal. Therefore, having considered the nature of 
Mr Ks legal action as outlined above, I do not consider it to be akin to a class action, or that it can 
reasonably be termed as such given that it does not relate to collective proceedings being brought in 
the CAT.
However, the above only deals with the first part of the exclusion relied upon by Amtrust to decline the 
claim, which also states that it will not cover claims which will be affected by or will affect the outcome 
of other claims. Mr K submits that the second part of the exclusion clause is nonsensical as English 
and Wales operate within a common law legal system, meaning its possible for all claims to both be 
affected by or [to] affect the outcome of other claims. He says the insurer could decline cover for any 
legal expenses claim on that basis, making it an unfair term which should be disapplied.
I appreciate that the common law doctrine of precedent and principle of stare decisis requires lower 
courts to take account of and follow the decisions made by higher courts where the material facts are 
the same - such that any case could, in theory, indirectly affect or be affected by the outcome of 
another. But the premise of a claim being declined by the insurer in this way seems largely 
hypothetical and based on conjecture, as it is not how the exclusion is being applied in these 
circumstances.
In the context of Mr Ks case, Amtrust are not seeking to exclude all claims that simply have the 
potential to indirectly affect (or be indirectly affected by) other cases in English Law. Indeed, if it did 
seek to rely on the exclusion in this way, then its likely this service would consider such an application 
to be unfair. But in these circumstances, the insurer is seemingly relying on this term because it 
considers that Mr Ks claim will be directly affected by other claims that fall within the same group of 
cases being considered by the Tribunal.
Leigh Day have said that no order has been made for a lead case to be selected under Rule 36. So I 
appreciate that the tribunals decision will not automatically be binding on all other cases. However, 
they have said that a case management order was made by the Employment Tribunal on 
13 March 2020 confirming that the claims (including Mr Ks) would be combined and heard together 
for the sake of determining the generic issues relevant to liability. But this means that if the sample 
claimants are not successful in establishing liability on the generic issues, then this will seemingly 
have a knock-on effect for the other claims in the group and hinder their chances of succeeding. 
Likewise  if they are successful in establishing liability, then the generic issues that have already 
been decided by the Tribunal will not need to be considered in any other claims that may be put in 
front of it.
In other words, the way these cases are going to be considered by the Tribunal makes it clear that the 
decision made on the sample claims will ultimately affect the outcome of other claims (whether 
positively or negatively). As Leigh Day have put it themselves, the decision of the Tribunal judge on 
the common issues will then shape the outcome in the similar cases. So on this basis. Im satisfied 
that Amtrust have applied the second part of the exclusion fairly because it seems likely that Mr Ks 
claim will be directly affected by the outcome of the other claims in the group  or can potentially 
affect the outcome of other claims if it is among the sample claims chosen to be reviewed for their 
common issues by the Employment Tribunal.It follows that I do not intend to uphold this complaint as I do not think Amtrust needs to take any 
further action in respect of this claim.
Developments
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties in response to my provisional 
decision. Amtrust didnt respond with any further comments. Mr K disagreed with my 
provisional findings and put forward further points for consideration. In summary:
The second part of the exclusion seeking to exclude claims which will be affected or 
will affect the outcome of other claims is inherently vague and unreasonably broad in 
scope and could feasibly be used to exclude any claim from insurance funding. 
Additional wording has been read into the exclusion to the benefit of Amtrust, as the 
term does not say that a case must be directly affected by the outcome of another. 
The distinction between claims that have the potential to directly or indirectly affect 
other cases is artificial and its scope is impossible to define with any certainty.
If Mr K had approached another law firm and secured funding for his claim on an 
individual basis, the request for funding would seemingly not have been declined 
simply on the basis that Leigh Day were running similar claims.
Mr Ks claim is still an individual claim. It has been stayed behind a number of sample 
claims, where the Employment Tribunal will consider some of the generic issues, but 
Mr Ks claim will not be bound by any of the decisions made in respect of the sample 
claims. The reasonable person would understand the exclusion (taken as a whole) to 
mean that only true class actions and other group collective actions where the 
result is binding in law would be excluded.
The second part of the exclusion is ambiguous, objectively unclear and uncertain, 
such that the principle of contra proferentem must be applied to the benefit of Mr K. 
The meaning of the second part of the exclusion that is most favourable to Mr K is 
that it refers solely to class actions and other group collective actions where the 
judgment is legally binding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so (and having paid particular attention to Mr Ks further points), Ive still 
decided not to uphold it.
Mr K has reiterated that the second part of the exclusion is unreasonably broad in its scope 
and could feasibly be used to exclude any claim from insurance funding due to the doctrine 
of precedent (stare decisis) whereby courts must follow their previous decisions and those of 
higher courts to ensure consistency and predictability. But as I set out in my provisional 
decision, I still consider this to be a speculative argument, as it is not how the exclusion is 
being applied in these circumstances. My decision is not concerned with how the exclusion 
could be applied in numerous other scenarios, but rather how it has in fact been applied by 
Amtrust in the specific circumstances of Mr Ks claim, and whether that is fair. 
Similarly, Mr K has also put forward the possibility that his claim may have been covered if 
he had approached another law firm and secured funding for his claim on an individual 
basis. I appreciate that could potentially have been the case. But again, it is not the scenario we are presented with here. An insurer is entitled to choose which risks it is and isnt willing 
to cover. And in this policy, Amtrust has set out that it is not willing to fund claims that will 
affect or be affected by the outcome of others. I am aware, from deciding other complaints, 
that there are other legal expenses policies on the market that would cover claims of this 
variety, but Amtrusts policy doesnt. And in this case, Mr K brought his section 9 claim to 
Leigh Day, who have chosen to progress it together with other similar cases in the 
Employment Tribunal. So, it is against this factual matrix that Im considering whether the 
insurer has applied the exclusion fairly. I understand the rationale behind Mr Ks analogy. 
But the fact that the exclusion may operate in certain circumstances but not others does not, 
in my opinion, render it inherently unfair.
Mr K submits that in reaching the outcome in my provisional decision, additional wording has 
been read into the exclusion to the benefit of Amtrust, as the term does not say that the 
outcome of a claim must be directly affected. I appreciate the phrase directly affected is 
not present in the exclusion. But I ought to clarify that I was not purporting to imply this term 
into the contract. Rather, the word directly was simply used to demonstrate the extent to 
which Mr Ks claim will be affected by the other sample claims being heard by the 
Employment Tribunal, such that I considered it to fall squarely within the scope of the second 
part of the exclusion, as well as what the reasonable person wouldve understood the word 
affected to have meant in this context. 
Mr K submits that the second part of the exclusion is inherently vague, ambiguous and 
impossible to apply. But Im not persuaded that it is. In the same way that I considered how 
the reasonable person would likely interpret the term class action, Ive also considered 
what the reasonable person would have likely understood the parties to have meant by one 
claim being affected by the outcome of another. But whereas the term class action does 
not have a widely understood natural definition (and has its own technical meaning in law), 
the words affect and affected do. 
The Cambridge Dictionary defines the word affected as to have an influence on someone 
or something, or to cause a change in someone or something. This is broadly in line with 
several other dictionary definitions, which similarly define it as meaning one thing producing 
a change or having an influence over another. And, as I set out in my provisional decision, 
when a certain phrase has a natural and ordinary meaning, it will generally be given that 
meaning by the courts (and this service). So I think the reasonable person with all the 
background knowledge would understand the words affect and affected in this context in 
line with their natural meaning, such that a claim would be excluded if it stands to be 
influenced or changed in some way by the outcome of another. 
In the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that Mr Ks claim falls into that bracket. Mr K 
has used the analogy of future claims seeking to rely on past judgments of the Employment 
Tribunal, which could be said to affect the outcome of other claims. But that is not the case 
with Mr Ks claim. It is not in the same bracket as future cases that may seek to rely on a 
past judgment of the Employment Tribunal; it is part of the group of current claims being 
considered by the tribunal, and which has been stayed in anticipation of general issues 
being decided that will either influence the outcome or change the status quo of Mr Ks claim 
 whether positively or negatively. Therefore, I consider it will be affected by the outcome of 
other claims in the sense that I think the reasonable person wouldve understood was 
intended by the contract.
I appreciate that Mr K still considers his case to be an individual claim, and that not every 
claim thats part of Leigh Days group will necessarily follow the exact same path as the 
sample claims decided before it. But it appears that the general intention here is for the 
sample claims to be heard first to deal with common issues that flow through all of the 
section 9 claims (rather than each case being heard individually on its own merit) in the hope that many of the issues in the stayed claims will then either fall away or be settled. So, as I 
set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Mr Ks claim will be affected by the 
outcome of the sample claims being heard by the Employment Tribunal. 
Mr K further submits that the reasonable person would understand the exclusion (taken as a 
whole) to mean that only true class actions and other group collective actions (where the 
result is binding in law) would be excluded. But as Ive explained, given that the second part 
of the exclusion is concerned with claims being affected by the outcome of others, I think 
its much more likely that the reasonable person would interpret it in line with its natural and 
ordinary meaning. Im not persuaded that the reasonable person, even with all the 
background knowledge of the parties, would assign it a specific meaning thats related to the 
nuances of the Civil Procedure Rules and whether certain forms of group litigation are legally 
binding, as I dont consider there to be sufficient context in the rest of the contract to support 
such an interpretation. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied that the reasonable consumer would interpret the second part 
of the exclusion (and the word affected) in line with its natural and ordinary meaning as Ive 
set out above. As a result, I do not consider it to be ambiguous or capable of different 
meanings in the same way the term class action can. It therefore isnt necessary to 
consider section 69 of the CRA 2015, or the contra proferentem principle in such 
circumstances, as Im not persuaded there is any ambiguity in the second part of the 
exclusion to reconcile. In my view, the second part of the exclusion is drafted in plain and 
intelligible language which the ordinary consumer can reasonably understand  there is no 
uncertainty to resolve in his favour. 
It follows that I consider Amtrust is entitled to rely on the second part of the exclusion in 
these circumstances, and Im not persuaded it has declined Mr Ks legal expenses claim 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman