DRN-2431945
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in March 1998 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1.00 per £100 of Mrs Rs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if 
she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs R returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs R that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent 
before it added PPI to her account. Mrs R says it was added to her account without her 
knowledge. AXA says Mrs R chose to take out PPI on her store card application form and its 
provided a copy for me to review.
Looking at the form, there is a section about Account Cover  PPI. This broadly explains 
what the cover is and underneath, there is a box to tick yes to Account Cover. There is also 
a separate box to sign to confirm the selection. I can see a tick in the box on Mrs Rs form 
and she has signed in the box, indicating she wanted the PPI added to her account. So, I 
think Mrs R would have understood the PPI was optional and I dont think she would have 
signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check the policy was right for her. 
But it did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to 
take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the terms and cost of the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But Mrs R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances, it looks like 
the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think better information would have 
stopped her buying it.
Mrs R says she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from her 
employer if she was off sick from work. Mrs R didnt have any other way to make her 
repayments if she lost her job or was too ill to work. The policy would have paid out on top of 
Mrs Rs sick pay entitlement. So, I think Mrs R could have found the PPI useful if she fell on 
hard times, especially if she lost her job or was off sick for longer than six months. 
Considering everything, I dont think better information would have changed Mrs Rs decision 
to take the policy and I dont think AXA mis-sold it to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman