DRN-3336436
The complaint
Ms V complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
unfairly refused to meet a claim she made for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit.  
What happened
Ms V held a critical illness policy with Royal London with her former husband. It was 
cancelled in October 2014.  
In late 2011, Ms V made a claim to Royal London for critical illness benefit, as she had sadly 
developed atrial fibrillation and been off work since 2009. This claim was declined as it was 
not one of the listed conditions within Ms Vs policy terms. So, a further claim was made for 
TPD. 
Ms V was also noted as suffering with both fibromyalgia and osteoarthritis in her hands, 
knees and neck. The impact of these conditions formed part of her TPD claim.
Royal London declined the TPD claim. It said Ms V was still undergoing treatment for her 
osteoarthritis and fibromyalgia. And her consultant had said that atrial fibrillation had no 
impact on either walking or lifting, which were the only two of six work tasks which Ms V has 
said she was unable to complete.  
At that time, a complaint was referred to our service, where it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators in February 2013. He said whilst he understood Ms V had restrictions due to 
her three combined conditions, he did not see any clear evidence that the definition had 
been met  notably whilst Ms V had treatment options open to her.   
In 2020, Ms V returned to Royal London to make a retrospective TPD claim. She said that 
before the policy had ended in 2014, she had been unable to perform two of the six work 
tasks listed in her policys TPD definition, despite returning to work in a role at a retail bakery 
in March 2014.  
Royal London refused the claim in November 2020. It said it hadnt seen any medical 
evidence to support that Ms V was unable to complete the walking and lifting tasks, and 
when she went back to work her employer had completed a report noting she undertook 
cleaning and lifting of oven trays and boxes. 
Ms V made a second complaint. However, Royal London wasnt prepared to change its 
view. It said it was satisfied that Ms Vs claim had been considered thoroughly and fairly. So 
the second complaint was also referred to this service.  
An investigator concluded that the complaint shouldnt succeed. He noted how Ms V had 
said she was unable to perform the walking or lifting tasks set out in her policy definition, 
and this was supported by her GP. However, he also noted that in 2014, Ms V had returned 
to work and later medical evidence from 2019 said she was able to walk but for struggling 
when walking up inclines.  
The investigator said that in the absence of any type of independent assessment before the 
policy ended, Royal London had to base its decision on the information available. He didnt 
think there was clear evidence to show Ms V was disabled to the extent that rendered her 
unable to perform both the tasks without any reasonable prospect of improvement.   
Ms V disagreed. She said the evidence given from her employer was inaccurate and she 
wasnt able to lift trays at work, as was suggested. Ms V queried this with the employer, but it 
could not explain why it had completed the form the way it had. The person that had filled it 
out only had a general understanding of her role. 
To that end, Ms V supplied updated evidence from her employers senior health and safety 
officer which was accurate about her position. He said, in summary:
Ms V was measured in the various risk assessments of 2014 and 2015 against a 
standard job description;
however, a number of tasks on the job description wouldnt apply to her;
Ms V was told to avoid heavy manual handling;
the example given at the time of the assessment related to drinks which are sold in 
display fridges;
a full pack of drinks can vary in weight from around 10 to 18 kilograms;
therefore, the adjustment Ms V required was to take two to three bottles/cans each 
time to restock display fridges;
this would involve carrying a much lighter load of less than 1kg over a short distance 
of approximately two to three metres;
the manual handling restrictions put in place for Ms V also include avoidance of lifting 
five litre bottles of cleaning chemicals on site, lifting and use of baking trays, and the 
removal of heavy cleaning tasks such as mopping;
she was and remains limited to very light tasks such as cashier work and serving 
food to customers;
Ms V does not carry out repetitive tasks which would result in her stood in one 
position during her four-hour shifts, as this would exacerbate her condition;
due to the small size of the premises she works at, Ms V is not required to walk long 
distances;
there are suitable rest provisions on site should she suffer discomfort or 
breathlessness at any point during her shift.  
Royal London didnt have any further comments to make. Ms V asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Ms Vs disabilities and I send her my best wishes. Unfortunately, 
having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. I recognise this will be disappointing for Ms V but I will explain my reasons below.  
I do not doubt Ms Vs explanation of her conditions and the significant impact these have on 
her. But, sadly, a policyholder experiencing symptoms that impact his or her daily activities 
even to the extent of needing adjustments doesnt mean a claim is automatically payable. 
The policy Ms V and her former husband held did not include income protection  so it 
couldnt pay out where a policyholder was too ill to work or limited in their work functions. It offered cover in the event of a listed critical illness. Unlike some of the other critical illnesses 
listed on the policy, TPD was not payable upon diagnosis of the underlying condition(s) that 
Ms V may have. For that reason, she could not pursue claims for her three diagnoses. 
Instead, until the policy ended in 2014, a claim would be paid if Ms V was unable to 
undertake two of six specified work tasks for the TPD definition, and importantly, that it 
would be the case permanently.
To satisfy a claim, the policy wording must be met in full. Within Ms Vs policy under the 
heading Total & Permanent Disability  Work Tasks it said:
"Becoming permanently disabled:
Before age 65
Through illness (other than mental illness of any kind) or injury
To the extent of becoming unable to do any 2 of the 6 work tasks listed below 
without the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive aids 
and appliances: and
The disability is irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever being any 
improvement
The work tasks are:
Walking  The ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface with a stick or other 
aid without stopping or severe discomfort.
Lifting  The ability to pick up 1kg from table height and carry it for 5 metres.
Using a pen, pencil or keyboard  The ability to use a pen, pencil or keyboard 
with either hand using any aids.
Hearing  The ability to hear well enough to understand someone speaking a 
common language in a normal voice in a quiet room with a hearing aid.
Speech  The ability to be understood in a common language in a quiet room.
Vision  The ability to see well enough to read 16-point print using spectacles or 
other aids.
Neither party disputes that the remaining four tasks can be completed by Ms V. Therefore 
satisfy a TPD claim under the policy, there needs to be objective evidence that Ms V cannot 
complete the walking or lifting tasks as specified with appropriate assistive aids but 
unaided by another person and that this will remain the case permanently.
It must also be the case that the evidence which would satisfy this definition must apply 
before October 2014  so even if it is retrospective evidence, it will need to show that Ms V 
was, at that time, permanently unable to complete the two work tasks.  
I recognise that Ms V has told both our investigator and Royal London how she cannot 
perform the two tasks and has not been able to do so since before the policy ended. And I 
do not disbelieve her. I can see that the most recent employment assessment of April 2022 
supports how Ms V needs many adjustments to allow her to continue to do her job in a very 
limited capacity. 
But because the policy has such clear definitions of tasks, to satisfy the claim there would 
need to be some type of objective evidence (preferably from a medical professional) 
referencing Ms Vs permanent inability to complete these mobility tasks and that she has 
exhausted all reasonable treatment options; this is in order to satisfy the TPD wording where 
it requires no reasonable prospect of improvement.       I say that because though Ms V, her GP and her employer have set out her limitations in 
both lifting and walking/mobilising, it is also stated by the GP in his report of November 2020 
that Ms V was undergoing physiotherapy for her osteoarthritis in her hands (which impacts 
lifting). This was further reflected from the ongoing treatment options Ms V had back when 
she returned to work in 2014. 
The GP also completed a medical report for TPD and provided this to Royal London in 2012. 
And though at that time - as in 2020 - it was agreed Ms V wasnt able to undertake walking 
and lifting as defined, she was awaiting further cardiology, pain management and alternative 
medicine referrals to see if any of these had an impact on her disabilities. 
In a letter of March 2013, Ms Vs treating consultant rheumatologist wrote to her noting how 
she had asked whether [her] osteoarthritis and fibromyalgia were long term conditions. He 
replied that they are what we term chronic conditions in that they are likely to be persistent 
although we will hopefully be able to improve your symptoms with a combination of 
physiotherapy and medication. 
And more proximate to the policy expiry, a consultant in pain management wrote to Ms V in 
October 2014, after she was seen in clinic the previous month. That consultant said whilst 
Ms V was managing her pain, she needed assistance for her widespread problems. On that 
basis she was referred for physiotherapy and acupuncture. 
From what Ive seen, there is no objective assessment as to whether Ms V would have been 
totally and permanently disabled  as required by the policy wording above, before October 
2014. 
I have no doubt that Ms Vs position has worsened in the intervening years, but Royal 
London is only obliged to consider claims where policies are in force  not once theyve 
ended. And up to October 2014, Ive not seen any clear assessment to show Ms V would 
have been permanently unable to perform the walking or lifting tasks ever again. 
I believe it most likely that by October 2014, Ms V was (understandably) still attempting 
various routes of treatment to see if she could alleviate the combination of symptoms caused 
by her three conditions. Until those had been exhausted, I dont believe it could be said with 
certainty that she was irreversibly unable to complete the walking or lifting tasks, and Ive 
certainly not seen any medical assessment to show that this was the case.  
On that basis, I believe Royal London did reach a decision that was fair in all of the known 
circumstances by refusing the retrospective claim. Ms V remains free to provide further 
evidence of her measured inability to complete the two specific tasks to Royal London to 
have another claim considered retrospectively, if there is other medical evidence concerning 
the work tasks at an earlier point in time. However, that evidence would need to look at the 
matter as at October 2014, as this was the last point at which a claim could be valid.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Ms Vs position, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman