DRN-2676636
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed him to take his bank account into
unauthorised overdraft repeatedly over a period of several years.  
What happened
Mr D held a personal bank account with HSBC which didnt have an agreed overdraft facility.
In 2016 Mr D began going overdrawn and incurring unauthorised overdraft charges.
In May 2019 Mr D complained to HSBC about how they had allowed him to incur these
charges, given his mental health issues and financial difficulties.
HSBC responded to Mr Ds complaint in July 2019. They said that they hadnt been made
aware of Mr Ds mental health issues or financial difficulties until that time, and that the
unauthorised overdraft fees Mr D had incurred had been applied to his account correctly, in
line with the terms and conditions of that account. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
However, HSBC did refund the most recent £400 of charges as a gesture of good will, and
they agreed a repayment plan with Mr D to help him to clear the overdrawn arrears on his
account.
Mr D didnt feel that HSBCs response went far enough and so he referred his complaint to
our service. One of our investigators looked at this case, but they thought it was most likely
that HSBC hadnt been informed of Mr Ds mental health issues or financial difficulties before
May 2019, and they agreed that the overdraft charges had been applied in line with terms
and conditions of the bank account, so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr D remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 February 2021, within which I stated the following:
One important factor in my review of this case concerns when HSBC became aware 
of the mental health issues and financial difficulties that Mr D was experiencing, and 
whether this corresponds with the time that HSBC ought reasonably to have been 
aware of these issues.
Considering Mr Ds mental health issues first, HSBC have advised that it was only 
after Mr D contacted them in May 2019 that they became aware of these issues, and 
that they took positive and appropriate steps to assist Mr D once the difficulties he 
was experiencing became known to them.
I have no reason to doubt HSBCs position in this regard, as there are no record of 
them being told about this before May 2019. So, while I understand that Mr D 
believes that HSBC branch staff should have been aware of his mental health issues 
before this date, I agree with our investigator that it is most likely that HSBC did not 
have a record of his mental health issues before Mr D specifically informed HSBC 
about these issues in May 2019.
But, in terms of the financial difficulties that Mr D was experiencing, I have reviewed 
the historical statements from Mr Ds account. Based on these I think that HSBC 
should have understood that Mr D was experiencing financial difficulties before he 
told HSBC about this in May 2019.
I say this because of the activity on Mr Ds account. For instance, in the calendar 
year 2018, Mr D exceeded his limit and was using an unauthorised overdraft on his 
account for approximately 285 days during that year - and was often only going into 
credit on the account for one or two days before becoming overdrawn again. The 
amount that Mr D was exceeding his limit by is also significant, with an unauthorised 
overdraft amount of several hundred pounds occurring regularly and often, leading to 
instances where Mr Ds regular income served only to bring the account into a small 
amount of credit before the account exceeded its limit once again.
I understand that many banks use an automated system to flag instances of account 
usage which may indicate that a customer is in financial difficulties. It appears that Mr 
Ds account was not flagged as such by HSBCs internal systems. Its not for this 
service to comment on the merits of a business internal systems. However, with all 
automated systems, there will be instances of customer behaviour which fall outside 
the defined parameters of that system and so slip through the net. And I think thats 
whats happened here.
So, while I accept that HSBCs procedures here didnt recognise the financial 
difficulties Mr D was facing - I dont think thats led to Mr D being treated fairly in this 
instance. Instead, I think that HSBC ought to have realised that Mr D was 
experiencing financial difficulties, based on the historical activity of the account. And 
it follows that I think HSBC ought to take some action to put things right as a result of 
this.
I note that when HSBC did become aware that Mr D was in financial difficulty in May 
2019 that they took action to help Mr D. This included refunding £400 of unauthorised 
overdraft charges - equivalent to five months at £80 per month - and also arranged a 
repayment plan with Mr D to help him clear the overdrawn arrears on the account. Id 
expect a business to treat a customer positively and sympathetically in these 
circumstances, and I think that HSBC have done that here.
But as mentioned above, I think that HSBC ought to have recognised that Mr D was 
in financial difficulty before May 2019. Having reviewed the account statements I 
think that a reasonable time that HSBC should have been aware of this was at the 
end of October 2017. I say this because in the three months prior, Mr Ds account 
had been over its limit for more than 20 days of each month and the maximum 
amount he had exceeded his limit by in the month had been significant, in that it had 
been no less than £300 each month.
So, it seems fair and reasonable to me that HSBC should reimburse Mr D all 
unauthorised overdraft charges incurred by him on the account from 1 November 
2017 onwards, less the £400 that they have already refunded.Mr D has also complained about the adverse information recorded on his credit file 
by HSBC, specifically that he is unhappy that HSBC have reported that he has 
exceeded his overdraft to the credit reference agencies. I can understand Mr Ds 
frustration here, but in this instance, I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to 
remove this information from his credit file. I say this because Mr D was knowingly 
using the unauthorised overdraft facility for some time before I think HSBC should 
reasonably have been aware that the was experiencing financial difficulties. HSBC 
do have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, and 
I think that theyve done that here.
Finally, its clear that Mr D has suffered considerable distress and anxiety because of 
this ongoing issue, and I feel that, had HSBC made a more accurate assessment of 
Mr Ds financial position earlier, some portion of this distress could have been 
avoided. Because of this, I think that HSBC should pay Mr D £200 as compensation 
for this distress. 
Mr D and HSBC were invited to agree or disagree with my provisional decision and provide 
any comments they wished me to consider.
Mr D confirmed that he had no further comments to make. HSBC did note that they werent 
in agreement with some points of my provisional decision, but they agreed in goodwill to the 
outcome I had reached, in order that this matter might be brought to a close.
It follows that I see no reason not to finalise my decision on the basis outlined above, and I 
will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
 
Putting things right
HSBC must refund Mr D any unauthorised overdraft charges incurred on the account from 1 
November 2017, less the £400 already refunded.
HSBC must also pay Mr D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
ongoing matter has caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman