DRN-3152536
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds), wont reimburse her for some of the money 
she lost when she made payments to a builder which Miss H considers was a scam. 
What happened
The details of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at 
length here.
 
In summary, in June 2019 Miss H enlisted a builder (whom I shall refer to as Builder P) to 
carry out a complete refurbishment on her property. The recommendation for the builder 
came from the architect Miss H had used.
Miss H says the project was to run for 12 weeks at a cost of £88,000. This was later 
amended part way through the project with the cost increasing.
On 25 June 2019, Miss H paid an initial deposit of £18,720 and then made the agreed 
further weekly payments for materials and labour. 
Work commenced but unfortunately by October 2019, things hadnt gone to plan. Miss H 
unsatisfied with the progress and the work undertaken considered she had fallen victim to a 
scam and Builder P had no intention of finishing the work.
Miss H subsequently contacted both her bank and Lloyds (the receiving bank  used by 
Builder P) to see if there was anything it could do to help and to see if any funds could be 
recovered.
Miss Hs bank reached out to Lloyds on several occasions seeking a refund of any funds 
remaining in the receiving bank account belonging to Builder P. Lloyds contacted Builder P 
to prove entitlement to the funds. Lloyds said Builder P provided evidence of works carried 
out, so Lloyds didnt take any further action and didnt refund any funds back to Miss Hs 
bank.
Miss H pursued the matter, and ultimately both Miss Hs bank and Lloyds (as the receiving 
bank) considered the matter under a voluntary code called the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which came into force in May 2019 and which both banks are 
signatories of. 
The CRM Code sets out when banks (so both sending banks and receiving banks) should 
reimburse a scam victim and it provides increased protection for customers who are the 
victim of scams. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to every type of disputed payment. The 
CRM Code doesnt apply to disputes that are deemed to be a civil dispute between two 
parties. 
Both Miss Hs bank and Lloyds deemed the matter was a civil dispute between Miss H and 
her builder  and considered the CRM Code didnt apply to the payments Miss H had made.
Unhappy, Miss H referred the matter to our service. 
Two complaints were set up. One complaint looked into Miss Hs bank as the sending bank, 
and the other was set up against Lloyds in its capacity as the receiving bank.
An investigator was allocated both complaints. In short, they didnt uphold the complaints as 
they considered the matter was a civil dispute  and the CRM Code didnt apply to the 
payments Miss H had made. They added that Miss H may wish to pursue the matter through 
alternative methods. The investigator issued their opinion to Miss H on both of her 
complaints.
Miss H ultimately remained unhappy with Lloyds in its capacity as the receiving bank, as she 
considered it should have had concerns about the account and how it was being operated 
given it was a personal account and not a business account. Miss H has asked for an 
ombudsman to review the actions of Lloyds.
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether the matter is a 
civil dispute. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Lloyds should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss H, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that some money should be returned to her. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Lloyds as the receiving bank has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Miss H made the payments. Ive thought about if the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of the payments Miss H 
made. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both Lloyds and our investigator felt the payments Miss H made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code. Miss H strongly disagrees. She 
feels the builder scammed her and never had an intention to finish the works. 
Having reviewed all the information and evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to consider this a civil matter rather than a scam. I say this because in the case of a 
scam, Id usually expect an illegitimate company to be involved, and for goods or services 
not to be provided  and for there never to have been an intent for them to be provided. But 
in this case the builder carried out works, and for a considerable amount of time. 
From looking at the emails Miss H has provided to this service, I can see works were carried 
out from July 2019 up until October/November 2019.
Taking an excerpt from an email from Miss Hs architect to Builder P on 23 November 2019, 
it states:
Receipts and invoices have not been provided as requested or promised by you 
for materials; supplier supplied items (stairs, etc); and labour costs. Cash purchased 
materials, items or labour with no receipts, proof of purchase or invoices cannot be 
quantified and will therefore be excluded from the overall project costs.
To re-iterate our discussions on site: the requested incurred cost document (with
receipts/invoices) will quantify your costs to date so a fair and reasonable agreement 
on monies owed to [Miss H] can be established.
Progress on site has effectively stopped since mid-October with exception of the 
following items of work:
Loft en suite
1. Partial completion of tiling
2. Installation of shower screen
First floor front bedroom
1. Installation of radiator
2. Installation of shelving
3. Installation of 1no. light
4. Boxing out of beam (not plastered)
5. Part installation of flooring
First floor WC
1. Installation of floor tiles
2. Partial completion of plaster boarding and wet plaster
3. Pipe work connection for toilet and washbasinKitchen
1. First fix electrical
2. Removal of fire place
Ground floor extension
1. Brickwork up to lintel
2. Lintel installed
General
1. First fix plumbing (partially installed to kitchen, but not to extension
2. First fix electrical (except rear first floor bedroom)
3. Partial completion of plaster boarding to first floor hall
4. Partial installation of plasterboard to first-loft stair well soffit
And an excerpt from an email from Miss H to her architect on 4 December 2019 states: 
Since your last email to [Builder P] we have also discovered that he hasn't:
installed a window sill outside the loft room window
The lead flashing outside the window hasn't been sealed so water can get into 
the gaps
there is no access point to the loft toilet
The toilet wasn't fitted correctly there was no clip to hold the water feed In
place
The toilet wasn't sealed or bolted to the floor and has been installed off centre
The shower screen hasn't been fitted correctly and has not been sealed
The bath hasn't been sealed
No sink or wall cabinet installed in the bathroom
Tiling incomplete
The first fix electrics in the loft are chaotic and not labelled correctly
The first floor bedroom hasn't been touched
The wardrobes haven't been built
The loft floor hasn't been finished
Boxing out and plastering wasn't finished in the loft and throughout the first and 
ground floors
In this case, work was undertaken from July 2019. While there were clearly concerns about 
the progress and amount of work undertaken, the professionalism and the quality of work 
carried out, work was still undertaken and for several months.
Its clear the agreement Miss H entered into with Builder P did not go as planned. And I can 
see Miss H and her architect took additional steps in trying to ensure the project continued 
such as organising weekly onsite meetings and trying to establish a clearer oversight of the 
costs incurred amongst other things. But the relationship with Builder P ultimately broke 
down. 
I understand that Miss H paid significant sums for the refurbishment work. And the work 
carried out over that time, based on the evidence and photos Miss H has provided, doesnt 
on the face of it, seem to be up to the standards that Miss H may reasonably have expected. 
I note that Miss H has said that this was Builder Ps first large project being self-employed. It 
seems to me that Builder P ultimately may not have had the necessary experience required 
in undertaking the refurbishment of Miss Hs property. But I cant safely say with any 
certainty, that Builder P set out with an intent to defraud her. While I know Miss H feels strongly about the matter, Ive not seen anything that I can safely 
say meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. 
Any dissatisfaction with the lack of completion of the contract or the quality of the work that 
was carried out  is a civil dispute rather than a scam. This type of dispute isnt something 
that the CRM Code was designed to cover. The reason being that a dispute like this is more 
appropriate to be looked at potentially through civil means, such as court. A court would be 
best placed to determine what materials and labour costs have actually been incurred, the 
amount of work carried out to date against what has been paid, in order to determine what is 
still outstanding or what amount(s) is possibly owed  with both Miss H and Builder P having 
the chance to provide their evidence to support their positions. 
Taking everything into careful consideration, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply and I 
cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund the money Miss H considers she has lost. I dont think Lloyds 
treated Miss H unfairly when it said the payments she made were not covered by the CRM 
Code as they relate to a civil dispute. 
I know Miss H has other concerns such as when Builder P asked for his girlfriend to be paid 
on one occasion, due to troubles with the bank account, which Lloyds has since confirmed 
wasnt the case. And also when she found out that she was paying into Builder Ps personal 
account and not a business account  and given Builder P held a Limited company (of 
which he was the sole director)  this should have given Lloyds cause for concern over the 
amounts going into Builder Ps personal account. 
I understand Miss Hs concerns here, and this does speak to the lack of professionalism in 
how Builder P operated or chose to run his business. And there can be implications for 
Builder P in not having a business account for his Limited company. But to my mind it 
doesnt automatically mean that Builder P was willingly and with intent acting fraudulently in 
setting out to scam Miss H, and I still consider the matter to be a civil dispute for the reasons 
Ive given above.
Ultimately, Miss H made payments to Builder P and work was carried out from July 2019 
onwards up until around October 2019. The work being carried out clearly fell short of what 
Miss H was expecting  but Builder P failing to complete the contract and the dispute about 
the quality of any work undertaken isnt something that is covered by the CRM Code, it is a 
civil dispute between the two parties.  
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Miss H and I dont underestimate the 
impact this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Miss H considers she has lost. I consider Lloyds 
were fair in considering the matter a civil dispute which isnt covered by the CRM code and is 
therefore something that needs to be resolved between the two parties through alternative 
methods.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman