DRN-3093114
Complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with what Santander UK PLC (Santander) has agreed to do to put things 
right after she complained it irresponsibly provided her with an overdraft, which it then 
unfairly added interest, fees and charges causing her to experience financial difficulty.
  
Background
Mrs C has also got separate complaints about issues arising from her relationship with 
Santander. But those matters have been looked at separately and wont be considered in 
this final decision. One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 
Santander needed to refund the interest, fees and charges added to Mrs Cs account from 
January 2012 onwards. Santander agreed but Mrs C didnt and so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. Santander has agreed that it should have 
realised that Mrs C may have been in financial difficulty by January 2012 at the very latest. 
And it has agreed to refund any interest, fees and charges added to Mrs Cs account from 
this period onwards. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to ask a business to put things right in a different way. And where a business 
continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have realised was 
unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally 
expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the point the 
lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and charges were 
paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Santander has agreed to do here, so 
it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these circumstances.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mrs C believes that Santander should do more. She thinks its unfair for Santander to record 
negative information on her credit file and shes asked for additional compensation for 
distress and her time in making and referring this complaint. Ive carefully thought about 
what Mrs C has said. However, Santander accepts that it ought to have taken corrective 
action in relation to Mrs Cs overdraft in January 2012. And if it had taken such action it 
would have been required to record that it was doing so at that stage. This is why weve said 
Santander should now reflect this position rather than what it has previously recorded. 
Ultimately, it would be unfair for Mrs C to have negative information recorded for longer than 
she would have done as a result of Santander taking corrective action. However, there 
wouldnt have been a situation where Mrs C would have been able to get long term relief on 
her unsustainable overdraft without also having some negative information recorded. As 
such, I think that Santander agreeing to record what it would have recorded had it acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs C, in January 2012, to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of her case.
Ive also considered Mrs Cs request for additional compensation as a result of distress and 
time taken up by this complaint. I do accept that Mrs C will have experienced an amount of 
frustration and annoyance as a result of Santanders actions. However, I dont think that all 
of Mrs Cs difficulties were as a result of Santanders charges, her spending and overall 
financial position also contributed to this. And while I do appreciate that Santander initially 
not upholding Mrs Cs complaint would have made its initial actions seem worse to Mrs C, 
Im not able to make an award for complaint handling as this isnt a regulated activity, or one 
thats covered by our service. So overall and having considered everything, Im not 
persuaded a further award is warranted here.  
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already offered to do to put 
things right for Mrs C  reworking her account so that all the interest, fees and charges paid 
from January 2012 are removed  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
and Im not requiring it to do anything more. I leave it up to Mrs C to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Santanders offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already offered 
to do to put things right for Mrs C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman