DRN-3860170
The complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim
following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr Bs car was stolen from outside his home. He says the thieves managed to
acquire his spare car key and used it to drive his car away - but he doesnt know how they
got it. He says LV declined the claim but hasnt investigated how the key managed to be in
the thieves possession.
Mr B says his car was worth between £8,000 and £9,000 but it has since been written-off
due to damage caused when it was stolen. He had to arrange for the salvage to be collected
and sold himself because of LVs decision to decline the claim.
LV says there was no sign of forced entry and only two keys were assigned to the engine
control unit (ECU). It says the evidence shows a key was used to take the vehicle. Mr Bs
spare key was found in the car when it was recovered. LV says it hasnt been explained how
the key was found in his car. It says the policy excludes cover in these circumstances.
Mr B didnt accept this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld his complaint. She didnt think LV had provided enough evidence to reach the
conclusion the car was stolen using Mr Bs key and decline the claim. She says the police
report may have provided more information to show how the car was stolen. Our investigator
says LV should pay the claim and the costs Mr B incurred in recovering the salvage.
LV disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr Bs complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its the policy holders responsibility to show that an insured loss has occurred. If they can do
this then, generally speaking, the insurer must pay the claim in line with the policy terms.
That is unless the insurer is able to rely on a policy exclusion that shows the claim shouldnt
be paid.
I can see that Mr B reported the theft of his car to the police and he obtained a crime
reference number. This is what wed reasonably expect him to do in these circumstances.
From LVs records, it contacted the police to verify the reference number Mr B had supplied.
I think its reasonably been established that the car was stolen, which is an insured loss
covered under Mr Bs policy terms.
LV has supplied its claim records that show what Mr B said when he reported his claim. He
explained that he parked the car outside his home. He thinks the car was still there as he
closed the curtains when it went dark. When he woke up the next morning, he discovered
the car was missing. Mr B told LV that he had locked the car and saw the lights flash and
heard a noise when the lock activated.
Mr B says he asked his neighbours if any CCTV was available that might show the car being
stolen. But none was available. Based on the description of what happened, I think this
shows Mr B behaved reasonably to demonstrate that his car was locked. Also, when
attempting to assist LV with possible video footage of the theft.
LV asked Mr B how many keys he has for the car. He confirmed he had two keys and that
both were in his kitchen. He subsequently found that the spare key wasnt in the kitchen and
couldnt be found. Mr B sent LV a photo of the main car key.
The car was later recovered by the police. Ive seen the engineer report that LV obtained.
This says there is no sign of forced entry. All locks, steering lock and door glass were intact
and there was no sign of tampering to the Onboard Diagnostics Port (ODP). The engineer
reported that only two keys had been assigned to the cars Engine Control Unit (ECU). And
that both of these keys were with the car.
I understand the two keys the engineer refers to are the main key Mr B handed into the
garage where his car was being held. In addition to the spare key that hed been unable to
find.
The engineers report confirms the car has a transponder key system, so a key will have
been required to move the vehicle. It also confirms the car had been recorded as a category
S total loss.
From the photos the engineer attached to his report, I can see extensive damage to the
front, driver side and rear of the car. There is also an image showing two car keys, one of
which is inserted into the door lock.
Based on this evidence I dont think it can be disputed that the individual that stole Mr Bs car
had possession of his spare key.
Ive thought about the policy exclusion LV relied on when declining Mr Bs claim. This says:
We wont pay for:
 loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if:
 your car has been left unlocked or with a window or roof open;
 the engine has been left running when unattended;
 your car doesnt have an active and working tracking device and your personal details
confirms this is required;
 the ignition device is left in, on or attached to your car or left in the immediate proximity of
the car or in range of where the ignition device is effective.
Mr B says he doesnt know how the thief had possession of the spare key. And I understand
that there was no sign of a break-in at his home.
LV says Mr B hasnt been able to provide an explanation of why the spare key was found in
the car after it was recovered. Because there was no sign of forced entry it says theevidence indicates the car was taken and driven away using this key.
Having considered this, I dont think LV has relied on its policy exclusion unreasonably. The
exclusion shows that cover isnt provided if the ignition device (the spare key in this case)
was used to carry out the theft, and that this was possible because of where it had been left.
Mr B hasnt been able to explain how the spare key ended up in his car after it was stolen.
He says this was kept in his kitchen, but this wasnt the case when he tried to find it. This
was one of only two keys that had been assigned to the cars ECU. Mr B still had the main
key, which was one of the assigned keys. The indication is that the spare key was used to
the take the car and drive it away. This being the case, I think LV has fairly relied on its
policy terms to decline the claim.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments that LV didnt obtain a copy of the police report. LV says it
checked the crime reference number, but that its role isnt that of the police. It says its role is
to assess whether the claim is covered by its policy terms. It decided it wasnt based on the
evidence available.
Im sorry Mr B has suffered this loss. I can understand how upsetting this must be given the
significant amount of money involved. However, I think LVs argument is persuasive that the
car was taken using his spare key. I dont think Mr B has given a reasonable explanation for
how this was possible. I think the onus is on him to do so.
In summary I dont think LV behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining
Mr Bs claim.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
LV responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr B responded to say that in reversing our investigators decision, do I believe that 
requesting the police report wouldnt have been helpful or necessary. He says hes 
concerned that the onus is on the victim to prove they are indeed a victim. Mr B asks that I 
consider the facts of his case again to identify whether LV did all it could to investigate his 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr B says about the police report. But I dont think hes shown that 
LV failed to investigate his claim fairly. 
As I discussed in my provisional decision its clear that Mr Bs spare key was used by the 
thief to take his car. He hasnt provided an explanation as to why the key was found with his 
vehicle after it was stolen. The policy terms exclude cover for the theft of a car if the key is 
left in, on, or in the near vicinity of the car. Based on the evidence the thief had access to the 
key. This is what enabled them to take the vehicle and drive it away. 
If Mr B has evidence or can get hold of evidence that shows his claim should be accepted, 
he can contact LV to discuss this. But based on the evidence I think LV has done enough to show that Mr Bs claim is excluded under its policy terms.  
Im sorry that Mr Bs claim was declined. But Im not persuaded by his further comments that 
LV treated him unfairly or that a change to my provisional decision is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman