DRN-2974635
The complaint
 This complaint is about a number of debit transactions HSBC UK Plc placed onto a current 
account Miss C holds with it. Miss C says the transactions, totalling around £154,000, were 
debited without her knowledge and consent. She is an undischarged bankrupt and says she 
cannot get into debt of more than £500 without the consent of her trustee.
 
What happened
  The broad circumstances of this complaint are now known to Miss C and HSBC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, the circumstances of this dispute are quite unusual, and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Miss C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words, with the figures rounded, and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss C complained after discovering the transactions had been placed on a current account 
she hadnt used for many years. HSBC issued a final response in March 2020, giving little 
detail of why it had applied the debits; it suggested Miss C contact her solicitor. After Miss C 
brought her complaint to us, HSBC provided more information about the transactions. It told 
Miss C (and us) that these sums were court costs arising from legal proceedings against a 
third party, and had been placed on Miss Cs account pending a court ruling. 
HSBC said the power to debit the court costs to Miss Cs current account came from legal 
charges she had executed in respect of several mortgages she had taken out previously, 
both singly and jointly with the afore-mentioned third party. Whilst the case has been with us, 
HSBC has moved the court costs to a suspense account, so theyre no longer showing as an 
overdraft on Miss Cs current account. 
Regardless of whether it could, our investigator didnt think HSBC should have debited the 
court costs to Miss Cs current account, at the very least without notifying her first of what it 
was intending to do. He recommended HSBC pay Miss C £500 compensation, for the stress 
the discovery of the debt caused her and for her time and trouble in bringing the complaint. 
Miss C wasnt happy and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. HSBC 
accepted the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should get it 
from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
decide the extent of our remit; ours is an inquisitorial brief. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Ive seen copies of some of the legal charges Miss C gave in respect of the mortgages she 
took out with HSBC. Im satisfied those legal charges gave HSBC the power to debit her 
current account with money she owed it. In that context, I dont agree with Miss C when she 
says her mortgages with HSBC arent relevant here. In any event, as I said earlier, I have an 
inquisitorial brief. That means its for me to decide what is relevant when determining a 
complaint. 
However, Im not satisfied I can say one way or another that the disputed court costs that 
were debited to Miss Cs current account represented money she owes HSBC. Indeed, Im 
not satisfied that I can, or even should, make any finding about whether the £154,000 or 
thereabouts is money owed to HSBC by Miss C. It seems to me that this is something a 
court will ultimately decide. So, in that context I agree with our investigator that HSBC 
shouldnt have debited Miss Cs current account. HSBC has now removed the debt, and that 
is the right thing to do; but insofar as it shouldnt have debited her account in the first place, 
HSBC does owe Miss C a remedy for its actions.
I dont propose to order HSBC to apologise to Miss C; an apology given under duress has no 
value, so Ill leave it to HSBCs discretion to decide if, on reflection, its actions warrant an 
apology. But it definitely should compensate Miss C for her time, trouble and upset, and in 
my view £500 is fair in all the circumstances. 
Miss C remains concerned that HSBC will try and recover the court costs from her if she 
attempts to sell her home; she wants an undertaking that wont happen. HSBC wont give 
that undertaking, saying that aside from the disputed court costs, Miss C owes it in the 
region of £1.2m in outstanding mortgages. Thats not something I can interfere with; not 
least because it didnt form part of the original complaint that was referred to us. Also, I cant 
future-proof someone against the risk of something that hasnt happened yet but might in the 
future.
Miss C doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor 
HSBC will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Miss Cs right to take legal action against HSBC over the subject matter 
of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint in part only; in full and final settlement, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Miss C £500. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman