DRN-4108144
The complaint
Miss O complains about the way an employee of Mercedes-Benz Insurance Services UK 
Limited (Mercedes) spoke to her when she asked for a motor insurance quote. References 
to Mercedes include other individuals and organisations acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss O spoke to an employee of Mercedes by phone to get a quote for insurance cover for 
her car. The agent said the cost of the cover would be £2,500 and that probably wouldnt be 
feasible for Miss O.
Miss O wasnt happy about this and complained to Mercedes. She said that she had felt 
humiliated and discriminated against by the comment. Mercedes said it didnt agree with 
Miss O in her interpretation of the statement as being discriminatory, rather that the agent 
had been seeking to obtain appropriate cover for her and improve the price of the policy. 
Mercedes said it didnt agree with Miss O that it was a comment on her ability to pay. 
However Mercedes accepted that the call didnt meet its expected standard of service, and 
said the agent had been required to undertake further training. Mercedes apologised that 
offence was caused by the comment, and offered Miss O £750 for the offence and upset 
caused.
Miss O wasnt happy with Mercedes response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She agreed that the service Miss O received was 
poor. She didnt think the comment was intended to be malicious, but it was unnecessary 
and she understood why Miss O would feel upset. But she thought the offer of £750 was fair 
and reasonable to recognise the error made.
Miss O wasnt happy with what the investigator said and so her complaint has been passed 
to me. Miss O wants Mercedes to pay her £7,500 compensation in recognition of the injury 
to her feelings, the humiliation she felt, the impact on her mental wellbeing, her loss of 
interest in driving her very expensive vehicle and being socially secluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Os complaint. Ill explain why.
I have listened to the call where the agent said that £2,500 for the cover wouldnt be feasible. 
In her complaint to this service Miss O acknowledges that when she challenged the agent 
about his comment, he said that there were obviously cheaper deals she could get out there. 
I think it was entirely reasonable for the agent to tell Miss O that she could get cheaper cover 
than the quote he had given her. So although I think the agents initial comment was a poor 
choice of words, I cant say that it was a comment on Miss Os ability to pay or discriminatory 
in any way. 
Mercedes has apologised, retrained the member of staff and offered Miss O compensation 
of £750 for the offence and upset caused. On balance I think this is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Miss Os complaint, so I wont be asking 
Mercedes-Benz Insurance Services UK Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman