DRN-3488555
The complaint
Mr T complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TransUnion) have 
denied him access to his credit file and told creditors that they cant identify him. He says this 
has resulted in him struggling to get credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In their final response to Mr T, TransUnion explained that although theyd been unable to 
verify his online application, he could make a postal application to view his file. They 
explained they could only release that to his current registered address.
TransUnion also explained that wouldnt impact on Mr Ts ability to obtain credit and theyve 
confirmed that a credit file does exist for him.
I dont think TransUnion have been unreasonable here. They need to protect Mr Ts data 
and cant release it unless Mr T is able to pass their verification procedures. They have 
explained that in those circumstances a postal application can be made, and I think thats 
reasonable.
TransUnion dont report failed identity checks to creditors and those failed identity checks 
wont appear on Mr Ts credit file. They wont therefore have any impact on his ability to 
obtain credit and I dont therefore think Mr T has been financially disadvantaged by not 
receiving his report.
Overall, Im not persuaded TransUnion have done anything wrong and Im not asking them 
to take any further steps.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman