DRN-4171451
The complaint
Miss N complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) and the visibility on the 
screen of an external ATM machine at the branch she uses.
What happened
Miss N complained to Nationwide about the visibility of the screen on their external ATM at 
her local branch. Shed had problems using it due to it being dirty and being affected by the 
glare from sunlight.
Nationwide upheld her complaint and in its final response said although the machine was old 
it was cleaned on a regular basis which included touch points. And that although the branch 
manager had asked for the screen brightness to be increased but been told this wasnt 
possible by the ATM Services. Nationwide also told Miss N some months later - when she 
reported the problems continuing - that the branch had arranged for an anti-glare screen to 
be installed but it wasnt able to provide a date by when that would be completed. And it 
reiterated the weekly cleaning arrangements for the ATM touchpoints and screen.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had acted fairly by upholding the complaint and taking 
the relevant actions to rectify the issue by contacting the branch in question. She also 
thought although Nationwide were unable to replace the external ATM machine, she 
wouldnt take the complaint further as they confirmed the machine is cleaned regularly and 
theyre still following up on the complaint by awaiting an anti-glare screen to see if this will 
make a difference.
Miss N asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision in this matter. She had nothing 
further to add but to stressed this was a practical matter and her own knowledge of materials 
science made her think the plastic on the screen had deteriorated over the years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss N feels strongly about this and I appreciate she wants steps taken to improve 
the customer experience but Ive come to the view that Nationwide have already responded 
reasonably to this complaint. Ill explain why I think that.
Firstly, Nationwide upheld her complaint. And, as everyone accepts the screen on this 
external ATM isnt as clear as it could be, I dont agree theres a need for an independent 
witness to judge the problem. Or consider it helpful to speculate on the cause of this. 
When somethings gone wrong, I need to look at what ought to be done to put the customer 
back in the position it wouldve been if the error hadnt occurred. On upholding the complaint 
Nationwide apologised to Miss N for any inconvenience caused. Its also logged her 
comments as feedback.  I think the steps its taken of ensuring the ATM screen is cleaned 
weekly, attempting to alter its brightness and ordering and awaiting the fitting of an anti-glare 
screen are reasonable responses to the complaint. Whilst that final step is awaited the 
option of conducting her banking inside, at the counter, remains available to Miss N. Given 
those findings, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Nationwide to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society have already responded reasonably to 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman