DRN-3762096
The complaint
i, a limited company complains that Wise Payments Limited (trading as Wise) failed to
properly deactivate his account and caused delays returning funds paid into the account. i is
being represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr J  for ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr J in
my decision.
What happened
Around February this year, Mr J asked Wise to deactivate his account. However, following
the deactivation, around £10,000 was paid into the account. After Mr J queried this, Wise
attempted to return the payment to the senders account, but it was unable to do so
successfully. Eventually, the decision was made to reactivate Mr Js account so that he 
could access the funds himself and move the balance elsewhere. All in all, Mr J didnt have 
access to these funds for around three months.
After he complained, Wise responded explaining that it had made an error when it
deactivated Mr Js account and this is why a payment was successfully deposited by a third
party. Wise says it tried to return the funds to the sender, but the transaction bounced back
on two occasions. Wise also pointed to delays caused by its internal systems that meant
Mr J had to wait longer before he could access the funds himself. To compensate Mr J for
the problems it caused, Wise offered him a total of £443 compensation.
Mr J remained unhappy and asked this service to review his complaint. Mr J says he had to
cancel business projects and he was invoiced €25,000 by a third party because of this. Mr J
adds that Wises errors caused damage to his reputation, loss of business and affected his
ability to expand his operations. He also mentioned that his health had been impacted. At
the time Mr J contacted this service, he felt £100,000 compensation would be fair.
One of our investigators decided that Wise should increase its compensation offer by a
further £250 because of the inconvenience it caused Mr J. Although the investigator agreed
Wise had made errors, she didnt think there was enough to link what Wise had done wrong
to the business losses Mr J referred to.
Mr J didnt agree and he now wants a higher amount of compensation. So the complaint has
been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional findings, in which I said:
I disagree with our investigators recommendation that Wise pay more
compensation than it has already offered  I think the compensation Wise already offered
Mr J in its final response is a fair way to settle this complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont think I need to set out in detail the mistakes Wise made as it already accepts that it
made errors. Wise agrees that it didnt deactivate Mr Js account properly  resulting in the
funds successfully being paid into his account after the deactivation was completed  and it
accepts that its own internal systems issues caused a delay in Mr J gaining access to these
funds. So all that remains for me to consider is the level of compensation that I think is
reasonable here.
As I pointed out, Mr J was left without access to these funds for around three months. But I
can see from the notes Wise provided us with that, for at least some of this time, Wise had
been taking steps to return the funds to the sender. And Wise has demonstrated that the
transaction bounced back on two occasions. So Im satisfied that, once Wise discovered its
error, it attempted to put things right as quickly as it could. Its unclear exactly why the funds
wouldnt return to the sender, but I havent seen anything that makes me think this was
because of something else Wise did wrong.
Once Wise agreed on an alternative option, it seems this was delayed by what Wise
describes as an internal systems issue. Mr J says he was inconvenienced by what Wise did
wrong as he had to contact Wise several times during this period and he was without the
funds in question for several months. So I agree that compensation is reasonable here. Wise
offered Mr J (on behalf of i) a total of £443 compensation  this is within the region of what I
wouldve asked Wise to pay had it not offered anything at all. And Im currently of the opinion
that this level of compensation fairly accounts for the inconvenience of Wises original error,
the delays it later caused and that it seems Wise made reasonable attempts to return the
funds.
Mr J wants Wise to pay him a significantly higher amount of compensation. He points to the
impact to his own health as one of the reasons why. Im sorry to hear about Mr Js health
problems, but the complaint here has been made by i and Mr J is acting as a representative
of i. As our investigator pointed out, i is a legal entity, so I cant make a compensation award
to its director or make an award to i for the distress Mr J has suffered. However, I can make
an award to i for inconvenience and, as Ive explained above, Im intending to conclude that
the offer Wise has already made fairly accounts for the inconvenience i has experienced.
Mr J says his business has suffered losses because of what Wise did wrong. He says two
projects had to be cancelled because he couldnt make a payment when it was due and that
he had to pay a sum to a third-party company because of the cancellation. Mr J adds that his
business opportunities have been impacted  so income and expansion plans have been
affected too. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the losses Mr J describes can
reasonably be attributed to what Wise did wrong.
Mr J provided a copy of the invoice showing the fee he had to pay because of the cancelled
projects. But I havent seen anything that demonstrates a link between what Wise did wrong
and the cancellation of the projects. I can see our investigator asked Mr J if he had further
information that could demonstrate a link  but Mr J was unable to provide this. Ive seen an
email chain from around March, in which Mr J informs Wise that he is planning to register his
business as dormant and refers to a client that had moved to a third-party company. So,
although I accept that Mr J experienced delays in accessing the funds that Wise incorrectly
allowed to be deposited into his account, on balance, I dont think Wises actions caused
Mr J a loss of business or impacted his expansion plans.
For these reasons, I dont intend to ask Wise to increase its compensation offer.
Wise accepted my initial findings. Mr J didnt agree and largely reiterated some of his 
existing submissions. In particular:
Mr J points out that he requested that Wise deactivate his account in order to bypass 
the payment he was expecting. He said he also asked that Wise reactivate his 
account shortly after this, but something went wrong.Mr J provided emails from the third party that sent the payment and points to this as 
evidence that Wise didnt attempt to send the funds back, denying him access to it for 
three months.
Mr J reiterated the impact to his business and pointed to his account statements as 
proof of this. He also referred to the inconvenience and distress caused to him 
personally.
Mr J points out that he wants a total of £375,000 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Js recent comments, but my decision remains the same. So I wont be 
asking that Wise increase its compensation offer. Ill address Mr Js recent comments below:
I can see from the chat log Wise sent us, that Mr J did indeed ask Wise about 
temporarily deactivating his account. Wise advised that he needs to email to request 
the deactivation and then email again when he wants to reactivate his account. As I 
pointed out, Wise already accepts that it failed to deactivate the account properly, 
which is what led to the funds arriving in Mr Js account.
The third-party emails Mr J points to arent enough for me to fairly conclude that Wise 
didnt attempt to return the funds. The emails confirm that the funds didnt arrive in 
the third partys account, but Wise has provided its own records showing it did make 
two attempts to return the funds and these were unsuccessful. There isnt anything 
Ive seen that points to Wise being at fault for the return of the funds being 
unsuccessful.
Ive already explained in my provisional findings why I dont find that Wises errors 
are what led to the loss of business that Mr J says he experienced, so I wont repeat 
my comments again. Mr J can be assured that Ive taken all his submissions into 
account. And as Ive explained, I cant make an award for any distress Mr J 
personally suffered, as the complaint has been brought by the legal entity he is 
representing. 
So my decision remains the same and I wont be asking Wise to increase its compensation 
offer. Should Mr J accept my decision, Wise can go ahead and pay him the £443 it has 
offered to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Wise Payments Limited has offered a fair 
resolution to this complaint. If i accepts, Wise Payments Limited should pay i the £443 it has 
offered to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask i to accept or reject 
my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman