DRN-4271644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds proposed settlement for their 
contents insurance claim.
Mr and Mrs P are being represented in their complaint by A, who I have referred to where 
relevant below.
All references to Aviva also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My initial thoughts
I wrote to both parties on 21 November 2023 to provide some initial thoughts regarding this 
complaint. Which Ive included below.
The Policy says it will provide a replacement based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. It also says where Aviva chooses to cash settle, it will only pay what it 
would cost it to repair or replace it.
In some cases, Aviva have made offers based on its own cost to replace internally. Which 
the policy allows it to do. However, in other cases, it has made an offer to Mr and Mrs P 
based on items it has sourced online, which it says are comparable and equivalent items. 
I can see Aviva and A disagree regarding the valuation of a number of items referenced in 
the spreadsheet. Mr and Mrs P have provided photos of several of the items claimed for and 
A has supported this with their own costings, research, and links for the items online. I want 
to assure all parties Ive considered these carefully. 
A has referred to the policy replacing items as new. The section referred to is under the 
sum insured section of the policy and is designed to explain the impact of not accurately 
representing items insured and what actions Aviva might take in providing settlement due to 
this. 
In this case there are no concerns regarding the sum insured. The most relevant policy term, 
in respect to the concerns raised, is the section directly below this that explains how Aviva 
settles a claim. Which is where it chooses to provide a cash settlement, it will do so at the 
cost to it. In instances where it is not possible for an insurer to directly quote for a 
replacement item, such as in circumstances where it is no longer available as new, our 
service would normally expect it to be able to provide an offer on an equivalent basis. 
My initial thoughts
Ive not seen anything to persuade me the items Aviva has sourced online and are proposing 
as replacements, are not new items. eBay has been referenced in some cases; however, 
eBay does sell new items so I dont think it should be ruled out as a retailer through which to 
source items. 
The key question is whether Im satisfied that where items cant be directly replaced, the 
items quoted for are suitable equivalents - in particular, where there is a significant 
difference in the costing quoted for the key items in dispute. A has highlighted these as 
camping equipment, industrial grade racking and military grade hoists.
The policy says a consumer may be asked to prove any loss through items such as receipts, 
valuations, photographs, or Instruction booklets. As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs P have 
been able to provide photos of a number of the items, and Ive considered these along with 
the other information A has provided.
Ex-Military 3 Ton Winch
I can see Aviva have referenced eBay in coming to a price. But has also provided details of 
another website that contains a selection of winches. From reviewing the photo of the winch, 
the website listed by Aviva and some basic searches online of winches which appear to 
have similar specifications to the one proposed by A, Im persuaded Avivas proposed 
settlement is an equivalent based on the evidence available.
Six-person Tent
A said Avivas offer does not reflect the type of longevity of the tent Mr and Mrs P had 
previously  and has provided a reference to prices on a camping website. Having reviewed 
the links provided and photos of the tent provided by Mr and Mrs P, Im not persuaded this 
suitably identifies the tents specification. And from looking at the link provided by Aviva, and 
from prices online, I think its offer provides a suitable equivalent replacement based on the 
information available.
Industrial Racking
Ive reviewed the link Aviva has based its offer on for this product.
Mr and Mrs P have been able to provide clear photographs to show the manufacturer of the 
racking and detail of its quantity and dimensions. From reviewing this online I can see this is 
industrial grade racking, that appears to be of a higher specification to that in the link Aviva 
has based its offer on. So, Im not persuaded this is an equivalent replacement. 
From research I can see racking from this manufacturer is available to source in the UK, as 
such Aviva should revisit this item and increase the offer it has made.
Responses to my initial thoughts
Aviva responded to say It wasnt previously in receipt of photos of the manufacturer of the 
racking. But on review accepted my initial thoughts.
In summary, A responded with the following points:
Regarding the winch, A said the items quoted by Aviva were hoists, which are 
different items to winches. They also pointed out this was stored in a flight box which 
Aviva are not agreeing to.
A confirmed it had no further information to provide regarding the six-person tent.
A confirmed it agreed with my initial thoughts regarding the industrial racking.
A said there were a number of items being disputed. And although they understood I 
would not be reviewing each of these individually, they wanted to point out other key items of dispute for my consideration. A has pointed to two metal detectors and 
Beekeeping equipment in which the settlement offered is in dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything on file again. Having done so I dont see any reason to depart 
from my initial thoughts but have offered further explanation in response to the further 
comments from all parties below.
A is correct in that the purpose of my investigation isnt to validate and cost every item that is 
subject to the claim. It is to decide if Aviva have treated Mr P and Mrs P fairly, and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. However, I have considered the additional points 
and items A has specifically mentioned.
Ex-Military 3 Ton Winch
There can be a difference in the interpretation between a winch and a hoist - namely that a 
hoist is often an item that lifts, and a winch being one that pulls. With this in mind, I looked 
again at the website link Aviva have provided. It shows pulling hoist winches with a similar 
specification to the winch provided by A. So, Im not persuaded by what A has said here and 
I think what Aviva has offered is fair.
Aviva have previously clarified it is willing to offer a settlement for the flight box  and I think 
this is broadly in line with what appears to be comparable items online and the cost set out 
by A. So, I think Avivas offer here is fair.
Beekeeping Equipment
I can see Mr and Mrs P provided Aviva with links to the hive set and excluder around 
October 2022. They said this matched the products that had been damaged. These links no 
longer work, but the products are still available on the website Mr and Mrs P have provided. 
The costs of these products are broadly in the region of what has been quoted by Aviva  so 
I think its fair these costs are used to settle for these items.
Aviva have previously clarified it is willing to offer a settlement for the Beekeeping Suit  and 
I think this is broadly in line with what appears to be comparable items online and the cost 
set out by A. So, I think Avivas offer here is fair
Metal Detectors
Having reviewed the links provided and photos of the first metal detector provided by Mr and 
Mrs P, Im not persuaded this suitably identifies its specification  or that the one put forward 
by A is a more suitable equivalent to what Aviva has suggested. 
From looking at the link provided by Aviva, and from prices online, I think its offer provides a 
suitable equivalent replacement based on the information available.
The second metal detector is subject of an offer for Aviva to source internally. I have no 
evidence that persuades me this offer is unfair. So, I wont be directing Aviva to change it.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things rightTo put things right Aviva should revisit the claim and revise its settlement offer based on 
what Ive set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
To put things right I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman