DRN-1928460
The complaint
Mr Cs complained that he couldnt move money from his account with Advanced Payment 
Solutions Ltd trading as Cashplus (Cashplus) when he tried.  And when he tried to close 
the account, he was told that the balance would have to be paid to him by cheque.
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Cashplus in 2016.  He paid a monthly fee of £5.95 for this.  
The account allowed him to make payments via an app and gave him a debit card.
In May 2019, Mr C contacted Cashplus because hed tried to transfer his balance (using the 
app) to another account.  But the transaction hadnt gone through.  Cashplus told him that 
was because his debit card had expired in August 2018. But, because that was more than 
six months ago, they couldnt replace it.  
Mr C still had access to the Cashplus app so told Cashplus hed transfer his money that 
way.  The Cashplus employee he spoke to confirmed they could see his transfer request and 
it should go through.  But it didnt go through, so Mr C called Cashplus again a few days 
later.  This time, he was told he couldnt transfer money without an active card. 
Cashplus suggested that Mr C could get a new card by opening another account with them.  
But Mr C didnt want to do that, because hed have to pay a fee.  Mr C asked if Cashplus 
could transfer his balance to another account for him.  They said they couldnt; if he didnt 
want to open another account, they could only send Mr C a cheque.  And that may take up 
to 30 days.
Mr C complained.  He said he doesnt live anywhere near to a bank  so it wasnt convenient 
to have to pay in a cheque. Cashplus investigated.  They said that he couldnt transfer his 
money because his card had expired the previous August.  And that it was the customers 
responsibility to make sure they had an active card.  Finally, they said it was reasonable for 
them to pay back the account balance by cheque.
Mr C wasnt satisfied so he complained to us.  As well as being unhappy with Cashpluss 
response to his complaint, he said that hed not received a cheque for his balance, even 
though hed waited more than 30 days.
One of our investigators asked Cashplus questions to find out what had happened.  
Cashplus told her that the debit card hadnt been replaced when it expired because Mr C 
had reported it lost in December 2016 and hed never asked for a replacement.  And they 
said that theyd transferred Mr Cs balance to him after theyd confirmed theyd never sent it 
by cheque.
Our investigator came to the view that Cashplus has caused Mr C unnecessary trouble by 
not giving him the right information when he called them.  And she thought they were 
unreasonable when they said they couldnt transfer his balance to him electronically, given 
they did that later.  She thought Cashplus should pay Mr C compensation for this, plus 
interest from the date hed tried to withdraw his money to the date he received it.I made a provisional decision about the complaint and sent it to both parties.  I agreed with 
our investigator that Cashplus should pay Mr C some compensation, but my reasons were 
different.  Ive summarised them below.  Neither party has made any additional comments 
for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I concluded Mr C experienced problems because he didnt have 
an active card on his account.  Cashplus said this was because hed never asked them for a 
replacement when he lost his.  
Their terms and conditions say that, if a card is lost: 
If there is money in Your Account We will cancel Your Card and issue a new Card to Your 
current address within seven days.
It doesnt say the account holder has to request a new card.  So I dont think it was 
reasonable for Cashplus to say it was Mr Cs fault he didnt have a card.
That doesnt mean a replacement card wouldnt have expired by May 2019.  The terms and 
conditions say:
Your Card may be automatically renewed at our discretion.
They dont say how Cashplus exercise that discretion.  Cashplus told Mr C they hadnt 
renewed his card in August 2018 because the account was not being actively used at the 
time.   But they didnt tell him what they meant by that.  Its not defined in the terms and 
conditions.  And Mr C was still having money paid in, so he thought the account was active.
I didnt see (either in the terms and conditions or on Cashpluss website) anything to tell 
customers that, unless they have a card, they wont be able to make payments  even if 
theyre using the app.  So I dont think it was fair for Cashplus to refuse to give Mr C a new 
card.  If theyd done that, he couldve transferred his money.  Because they didnt, Cashplus 
inconvenienced and frustrated Mr C.  And they made the situation worse by telling him his 
payment would go through when it wouldnt.
Cashplus told Mr C theyd send him a cheque for his closing balance.  I dont think thats 
unreasonable.  Their terms and conditions dont specifically say theyll do this  but they do 
say it may take 30 days for customers to receive payment.  And they suggest ways 
customers can get their money more quickly.  The problem was that Mr C couldnt use them 
because he didnt have an active card.
Putting things right
I agreed with our investigator that Mr Cs been put to more trouble than he should have been 
in closing his account.  And I explained I think this stems from Cashplus not renewing his 
card. I said I thought Cashplus should pay him  compensation for this.  And I thought £150 
was a fair amount.  Neither party has suggested that it isnt.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about Advanced Payment 
Solutions Ltd trading as Cashplus and directing them to pay Mr C £150 for the trouble they 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman