DRN-1543063
 
The complaint
Mr H complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited linked an unrelated claim to him when 
he attempted to insure his car with them. Hes also unhappy the same issue occurred when 
he tried to take out a policy again a few months later.
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree there were multiple failings made by Hastings. Our investigator didnt 
think Hastings had gone far enough to acknowledge the impact of their errors by offering Mr 
H £100. She thought Hastings should pay £250. Hastings said they were minded to accept 
our investigators view, but Mr H didnt think £250 was sufficient compensation.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I think Hastings shouldve done more to understand why their system was picking up 
a fault claim against Mr H. Hastings put the onus on Mr H to resolve the issue even 
after hed evidenced his no claims history as theyd requested.
Ive listened to the phone calls between Mr H and Hastings. There were a lot. And 
they were often repetitive as he was passed between different departments. I can 
understand the frustration this must have caused Mr H, both in respect of the time it 
took up and the struggle he had to move the situation forward.
Hastings initially told Mr H the claim related to him  this was later shown to be wrong 
- and if he went ahead with the policy before resolving the issue, his premium 
couldnt be amended retrospectively. Hastings also said the claim would likely flag up 
with any insurer he approached. So, I can understand why this caused Mr H concern. 
And ultimately led to Mr Hs new car being left uninsured on his drive for a short 
period  something which concerned him greatly.
But I do think Mr H couldve mitigated the risk by speaking to his existing insurer. As 
they hadnt linked the claim to Mr H when insuring his previous vehicle, I think its 
reasonable to assume they wouldnt do so again, if he took out a second policy with 
them. Thankfully, nothing happened to Mr Hs new car and he switched his existing 
policy to cover it after selling his previous vehicle three days later.
Im aware Mr H thinks he should be paid more compensation, based on the time he 
spent trying to resolve things and how much he could earn in that time. But we look 
at the overall impact that somethings had on a consumer  rather than awarding 
compensation for specific units of time, or at a particular hourly rate.
Its disappointing the same issue arose when Mr H tried to take a new policy out with 
Hastings a couple of months later. But on this occasion Mr H contacted the CEOs 
office and could proceed with taking out a policy without delay.
Taking into consideration everything thats happened and the overall impact on Mr H, 
I think £250 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr H £250 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 

Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman