DRN-1429507
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received from Al Rayan Bank Plc when he tried to make 
a money transfer from his savings account.
What happened
On 12 June 2019, Mr H says he went into the bank to make a faster payment of £30,000 to a 
third party. Mr H says as the third party needed the funds quickly, he asked a member of 
staff how long the transfer would take. As the transfer involved a large sum of money, Mr H 
says he was told it would take slightly longer than the two hours that a transfer would usually 
take. Mr H complains that the third party didnt receive the money until early morning the 
following day. Mr H says this caused a lot of distress and inconvenience  he had to make a 
number of phone calls to Al Rayan to find out why the transfer was taking so long and as 
hed promised the money would be with the third party that same day, this affected his 
reputation.
Al Rayan said they aim to deliver all faster payments as soon as possible but that same day 
delivery of payments arent always guaranteed. Al Rayan recognised that Mr H had 
experienced some stress and inconvenience and offered him £75 compensation. Mr H didnt 
accept this as he says this doesnt fairly compensate him for the distress caused and also 
the damage to his reputation. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. She said she didnt think Al Rayan deliberately 
delayed the payment and whilst the money was received by the third party early the 
following morning, there was a lack of clarity about timescales from Al Rayan. She also said 
she thought the £75 compensation offered was a fair way to recognise distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H.
Mr H disagreed. He said the bank shouldve made it clearer when telling him the funds were 
no longer in his account  he said when he contacted the third party to check if theyd been 
received, he was told they hadnt. So this caused further worry to Mr H. Mr H also reiterated 
that he hadnt received a call from the bank as promised the following day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Al Rayan have acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Mr H and they 
recognise that the advisors Mr H spoke to may not have necessarily been aware of the exact 
timeframes for a transfer of such a large amount. Al Rayan have also recognised they failed 
to give Mr H a courtesy call the following day as promised. So whats left for me to decide is 
whether the offer of £75 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
Al Rayan have provided a copy of Mr Hs faster payment authorisation slip. I can see the slip 
explains that due to third party involvement and regulatory requirements, same day delivery 
payments cannot be guaranteed. I can also see from the information provided to me that Mr Hs transfer was checked by Al Rayans internal departments. Both Mr H and Al Rayan have 
let me know that the money was then received by the third party in the early morning of 13 
June 2019. 
Whilst I dont think the timescale was unreasonable given the checks Al Rayan chose to do, I 
do think Al Rayan could have managed Mr Hs expectations better when he contacted them 
to ask when the funds would be transferred to the third party. And I think being told the 
incorrect information that the funds would be sent close of business on 12 June 2019, when 
they werent, caused unnecessary stress to Mr H.
The issues Mr H has pointed to are undoubtedly an inconvenience and I can understand 
why Mr H was worried  especially as Mr H says that the funds were needed to complete a 
property purchase on 14 June 2019. When something goes wrong there will always be an 
element of inconvenience in trying to put things right. From what I can see in relation to Mr 
H, these relate to a number of phone calls. Having considered everything, I think £75 
compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that Al Rayan Bank Plc should pay Mr H £75 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman