DRN-2817661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly advised them  in June 2007 - to put
£8,000 of Mr Hs redundancy payment into a five and a half-year capital guaranteed product,
and failed to point out that the projected, potential returns were lower than its own interest-
guaranteed savings products.
What happened
 According to the product literature, if the FTSE rose by 4% a year over the five and a half-
year term, this would result in Mr and Mrs Hs receiving the equivalent of a 3.6% annual
return. They kept the investment till maturity and received very little return.
Lloyds rejected Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, saying it was satisfied the advice was reasonable.
An investigator at this service broadly agreed and did not feel the complaint should be
upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed for a variety of reasons.
The above is obviously an extremely brief summary of all parties arguments and evidence.
However, as I shall now explain, I am satisfied that there is one overwhelming reason why
this complaint should be upheld and so do not feel the need to address the numerous points
raised by both parties  such as Mr and Mrs Hs previous financial experience, 
circumstances and financial situation etc.
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
According to the advisors record, Mr and Mrs H did not want to take any risk with this
£8,000 but were keen to try and achieve a greater return than that available via savings
accounts. This was the basis for the advisors recommendation of this five and a half-year
bond.
Yet a comparison between the illustrated return, based on the regulator-approved figures
about the most likely rise in the FTSE (itself based on previous rises), this product was most
likely to deliver a 3.6% annual return. The FTSE could, of course, rise by more or less than
this but Ive seen no evidence to suggest the advisor was in a better position than the
financial regular to predict likely returns. So he ought to have accepted this illustration as the
most likely guide to returns via this product.
By contrast, many high-street banks and building societies were offering between 5 and 6%
annual interest via their savings account. Importantly, Lloyds was offering a three-year bond
with a guaranteed 6% a year return i.e. with no risk of it delivering less or no return.
Given this, it is hard to understand why the advisor thought it appropriate to recommend the
capital-guaranteed product. Crucially, he failed to mention that the most likely return via this
product, albeit that no return was guaranteed, was not much more than half that available via
Lloyds own fixed-rate bonds.
As such, Mr and Mrs H were clearly not in an informed position to decide whether to risk
getting no return in the hope that the FTSE would rise by dramatically more than the
financial regulator thought likely. If they have been given such a fair and appropriate
comparison, I can see no reason why they would have agreed to the advisors
recommendation.
As they were looking to beat standard savings rates, but without taking any risk with their
capital, I am satisfied that they would  if properly advised  have invested their £8,000 in
Lloyds three-year fixed-rate bonds.
Lloyds should therefore compare the return they received with what they would have earned
if this money had been put in its three-year bonds and subsequently kept in interest-
guaranteeing, risk-free sources (using the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17
months maturity).
It should then pay this loss and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of
surrender/maturity to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Lloyds disagreed with my conclusions, saying:
I concluded that it did not provide the customer with suitable advice because when 
one compares the projected growth rate of the Capital Protected Fund (CPF), which 
I say is what the Regulator believes is the most likely rise in the FTSE (in this case 
4%, but after deducting the effects of charges 3.6%) to the rate offered by a three-
year fixed bond (6%, although after tax of 22% it equates to nearer 5%), then I 
couldnt see how or why the customer would want to consider the CPF over the 
three-year Bond
I said it was not necessary to consider other factors such as the customers personal 
or financial situation, or their previous experience with investments
However, we believe that there are other underlying factors that should be 
considered when reviewing the overall suitability of the advice
It is our understanding that the FCA prescribed rates are to help customers see what 
return they might get back on their investment when comparing product charges; 
not, as I have described, what they are most likely to get back. Either way, we 
recognise the importance of these assumptions because the regulator wanted to 
make sure firms did not mislead customers by using inappropriately high rates
Our customers were provided with the illustration and an explanation, so were made 
aware of the rate the regulator had prescribed and the returns they might get back. 
They were also fully aware that if the FTSE did not perform well then there was the 
risk of no growth over the period, although a return of capital would be provided. 
Therefore, we do not believe we have mis-led the customers around the risks of the 
CPF
The question many customers will ask in this situation in order to help them decide if 
they want to proceed is how has the FTSE been performing lately since the FCA 
last reviewed their projections in 2003 the FTSE had averaged 12% per annum
What we are trying to do here is to present the reality of the financial markets in 2007 
and not base our decision on hindsight. The FTSE returns lately had been very good 
(12% p.a. over the previous four years, so 8% higher than what the regulator believed one might get back). Between 2003 to 2006 the FTSE considerably 
outperformed interest rates, which were relatively low
When comparing the actual FTSE performance proceeding the investment and the 
three-year bond guaranteed rates, we believe it is reasonable to conclude that on the 
balance of probabilities these customers would still have proceeded with the CPF
In 2009 the customers took out further CPF investments. They have not complained 
about the suitability of these investments, most likely because they were happy with 
the return they received. This suggests that the true basis of their complaint is 
performance (i.e. we didnt get any growth on one of the CPFs so we will complain 
about the suitability of that one, but we did well on the other CPF, so we wont 
complain about the suitability of that one)
But the crucial point here is that they took out the 2009 CPF a year after the stock 
market suffered one of its largest falls in history. There was a global financial crisis in 
2008 which they would of course have been aware of. Yet even in the knowledge of 
this (and knowing their 2007 investments will have been severely impacted) they still 
proceeded with the 2009 CPF, evidencing that this type of investment was something 
they were clearly attracted to
This is further evidenced by the fact that in 2005 they also held other Guaranteed 
Bonds with other companies such as Norwich Union and Standard Life
At the same time as taking out the CPF in 2007 the customers took out an 18-month 
fixed-term deposit for £10,000
This evidences that the customers were aware these types of investments were 
available. Ive not been able to establish the exact rate they received, I suspect they 
obtained a preferential rate by taking out the CPF, but looking at the standard FTDs 
available at the time the rate for 2 years was 4.6% net and 1 year 4.4% net, so not 
too dissimilar to the 5% 3 year fixed-rate. We believe that if the customers were 
attracted to these types of investments over the CPF, then they would not have 
proceeded with the CPF
In summary, it is our belief the customers had a good mix of investments and the 
CPF complimented them. Bank savings, fixed term deposits, unit trust and 
guaranteed bonds. We therefore believe than on balance, when taking into 
consideration all the evidence available, that the advice we gave these customers 
was reasonable and fair
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of Lloyds response points, I am still satisfied this complaint should be 
upheld. I will therefore address these points in order:
I accept that it was my interpretation to describe the middle of three illustrated returns as the 
most likely and that this is not something the FCA states. However, I think it is a fair and 
reasonable interpretation and one that most customers are likely to make. In any setting if 
one is offered three projections by an authoritative body, I think most people will assume the 
middle figure or percentage is the most likely i.e. more likely than the lower and higher figures.
In the absence of any other expert knowledge, I think the advisor ought to have said or 
explained that, in his judgment, the middle FCA-approved figure was, more likely than not, 
the best guide to likely returns. There is no evidence to indicate he did this.
I dont dispute that Mr and Mrs H were provided with documentation showing that they were 
not guaranteed any specific return and could get none. I also accept that its more likely than 
not that they were aware that this product did not promise any return. Further, I did not say 
the advisor misled them about this product or gave them false promises about likely return. 
Instead, I said there was no evidence to indicate he had offered them a comparison between 
the illustrated returns and those available via risk-free bonds.
While Mr and Mrs H subsequently agreed to take out another similar product, I have no idea 
whether this one was a suitable recommendation or met their objectives at the time. It does 
not mean the earlier recommendation was appropriate or that they were fully aware of its 
potential drawbacks. Doubtless, if Mr and Mrs H made a healthy return via this latter product, 
they would be unlikely to complain about it; instead simply complaining about the product 
which didnt deliver a decent return. They may also have only complained because of this. 
But I am still nevertheless entitled and required to consider whether it was a suitable 
recommendation.
Further, I have not assessed the suitability of the other bonds or fixed-rate products that Mr 
and Mrs H took out so cannot comment on whether these were suitable for them or whether 
they were attracted to them, as opposed to simply agreeing to an advisors 
recommendation.
Overall, I do not accept what I believe is a selective use of data in relation to the past history 
of the FTSE. Firstly, Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs H were experienced investors 
with a close working knowledge of the history of the FTSE, including its 12% annual rise in 
the previous three years. Nor have I seen evidence that the advisor pointed this out and/or 
explained that, in his view, the FTSE was likely to continue this trend and significantly 
outperform the regular-approved illustrations.
If Mr and Mrs H had had such detailed knowledge they would have been aware that the 
FTSE had actually still not recovered from its 1999 level, having fallen sharply in the 
following three years such that even the subsequent 12% a year increase meant that any 
similar FTSE-linked medium-term bond, if taken out around that time, would have been 
unlikely to have delivered any return.
So, there were limited grounds to assert that the proposed product would deliver a better 
return than the fixed-rate bonds on offer.
Given this, I still believe that if Mr and Mrs H were given a fully rounded appraisal of the 
relative risks and potential benefits of this product they would not have put their money at 
risk of getting no return.
Putting things right
 Lloyds should therefore compare the return they received with what they would have earned
if this money had been put in its three-year bonds and subsequently kept in interest-
guaranteeing, risk-free sources (using the Bank of Englands fixed-rate bonds of 12 to 17
months maturity).
It should then pay this loss and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date ofsurrender/maturity to the date of settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman