DRN-3870966
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pi Financial Limited (trading as Diversify Financial Services) wrongly 
advised him to transfer from his three existing personal pensions into a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) and use an advisory investment management service from Mayfair 
Capital Limited. Through a Claims Management Company (CMC), he says that Pi failed to 
advise on the true costs associated with the new set up, the pension recommended is more 
complex than Mr Ms previous arrangements and he has incurred multiple unnecessary fees.
What happened
Mr Ms CMC says he received a cold call offering a review of his pension from a person 
representing UK Life, an unregulated firm. He met that person at his home on two or three 
occasions before being referred to Pis adviser, who he only spoke to on the phone. The 
CMC suggests that most of the fact-finding had been carried out by UK Life and Pis adviser 
only checked that information. When paperwork needed completing in person, it says that 
was again done with UK Life.
Pi obtained policy information on Mr Ms existing arrangements during October 2017. The 
Standard Life plan was invested in its Mixed Blend fund, which was invested across UK and 
overseas shares, property, bonds and property and only charged 0.27% (after a 0.8%pa 
discount because it was a Group Personal Pension  GPP) to manage. The Abbey Life 
plan was invested in its International fund (UK and mainly overseas equities) with 
administration fees totalling £75pa and fund charges in addition. The Aviva plan was 
invested in a with-profits fund which had implicit charges, part of which attracted a 
guaranteed annual bonus of 4%. But a large terminal bonus of £14,723 was at that time 
payable. There were no penalties for transferring any of the plans.
The adviser issued his suitability report on 14 November 2017, which suggested that Mr M 
was looking to diversify his pension and invest in more exciting asset classes without 
making additional contributions. It described his existing pensions as frozen. He was 
aged 50, co-habiting with no dependants and planned to retire at age 67. He had a £90,000 
mortgage on his main residence worth £250,000, which he expected to be paid off by age 
58, as well as another property worth £100,000 and a plot of land which he was looking to 
build properties on.
The adviser mentioned that Mr M did not know the exact details of his other credit 
arrangements  Mr Ms CMC has informed us that this was £20,000 on credit and store 
cards.
An Old Mutual attitude to risk assessment had been carried out, which Mr M had signed. His 
answers included:
-I want the best long-term returns I can get. I fully expect periods where the value of 
my investments might suffer extended falls (the highest risk option).
- He was prepared to invest in a portfolio which (as an example) might gain 37% in 
one year but also lose 23% over the same period. If he lost 13% he would sit tight, 
but wouldnt invest any more sums (these were both the third riskiest of four options).
-I am not concerned about falls in value as I expect to recover any falls by the time I 
need to sell my portfolio (again, the highest risk option).
- If his savings were insufficient he would Take more risk with half of the money and 
increase your savings rather than making more contributions (third riskiest of four).
- He was not interested in purchasing an annuity unless the circumstances required it.
The questionnaire produced an attitude to risk score of 8/10. In any event, the adviser said in 
his suitability report that Mr Ms assets were not easily realisable into cash and he should 
be classed as a more middle of the road balanced investor. However he also went on to 
say that Mr M had a high capacity for loss as his standard of living would not be affected by 
this investment. 
He recommended Mr M transfer into the SIPP in order to obtain a wider range of investment 
choice to reduce risk and improve opportunity for growth. In addition, to benefit from inter-
generational estate planning. His report suggested that the lifestyling option attached to the 
Abbey Life (and from what I can see, Standard Life) plan was an old school strategy 
associated with annuity purchase, and regular rebalancing of the portfolio by an IM for 
drawdown of benefits was now preferred. Mr Ms existing plans were said to offer insufficient 
investment options overall.
The proposed Intelligent Money SIPP was described as financially strong, offering excellent 
service and competitively-charged. Mayfair Capital was described as a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM), however the adviser went onto explain this firm was actually offering an 
advisory service where Mr M retained the final decision on whether to accept its 
recommendations. (Whilst it appears to have been Mayfairs long-term intention to become a 
DFM and it has since gained the FCA managing investments permission, it was a new 
entrant to the market in 2017 and did not yet hold that permission.)
Pi said that Mayfairs service would involve Mr M having a personal investment adviser who 
would reassess his circumstances and objectives to arrive at an initial asset allocation, as 
well as provide ongoing advice including monthly market reports with an update of the 
equity, FX, commodity and bond markets, and other special reports. Mr M would be able to 
log into his portfolio online to monitor performance, and to trade across 36 global exchanges. 
The following snapshot was given of the typical balanced portfolio Mr M would invest into, 
although the exact proportions would be agreed after Mayfairs advice. This was the middle 
of three risk levels offered. (Although this copy is in black and white, the similar, later 
versions of this chart Ive seen suggest the 48% is likely to refer to global equities, the 2% to 
cash and the 20% to government bonds):
 
Dealing commission of 1.5% was charged on every trade, which Pi said would come to 
£1,265 for Mr M (about 1.7% of his funds) based on a typical two trades per year. But 
Mayfair was to charge no other fees - said to be more competitive than other investment 
managers. It does not appear that the third-party industry research into IMs included with the 
suitability report featured Mayfair at all. The SIPP had an initial and annual charge of £150, 
plus an initial advice charge of 4% and 1%pa ongoing charge (both to Pi) which covers the 
cost of reviewing clients retirement pots against their retirement needs and risk attitude. 
Based on this, Pi said the charges for the SIPP and IM were likely to be higher than his 
existing plans (but no greater than a stakeholder [plan]). It said Mr M believed these 
charges would be recovered by higher growth (although this was not guaranteed). The SIPP 
illustration showed a reduction in yield due to charges to age 67 of 1.4%. Pi illustrated that a 
total target income of £24,000pa (including state pension) from age 67 would run out by age 
73 if the expected growth was 5%pa, so it noted that level of funding may prove insufficient.
The adviser added, We also considered the importance of having my ongoing service 
commitment and keeping your pension on track to meet your needs, aims and goals which is 
a fundamental part of the service we provide. The report, which Mr M signed at the end, 
said that he had elected for that service. Pis terms of business said that the 1%pa ongoing 
service proposition included a 6 month desktop review and offer of annual review, 
extending to a review of the investment performance and holdings and fund switching/ 
rebalancing as appropriate.
Three transfers were made into the Intelligent Money SIPP: from Abbey Life (£3,697), Aviva 
(£43,666) and Standard Life (£26,986). They were all invested in Mayfair Capitals balanced 
portfolio. Initial fees totalling £3,856 were paid to Pi with the SIPP starting in January 2018.
Pi has provided no evidence of annual reviews being conducted by its adviser. The adviser 
ceased to be authorised under Pi from June 2018. 
It appears Mr M first got in touch with the CMC who questioned the suitability of the advice in 
2018, and this prompted a further discussion with the adviser who said he was in the 
process of settling into another advisory firm. In October 2018 the adviser emailed Mr M a 
summary of their conversation. He noted that construction of the properties Mr M planned to 
build was partly completed, and that Mr M was happy with the level of service from Mayfair 
as your main pension you believe is your holiday homes, therefore this is effectively 
money to play with. The adviser shared that response with Pi.
The CMC then raised the complaint with Pi in March 2020. 
Pi responded, in summary, that it was its adviser who had carried out the fact-finding with 
Mr M and recommended the SIPP and use of Mayfair. This was in order to achieve Mr Ms 
ambitious income objectives, whilst also giving him the flexibility to encash sums from age 
55 to build properties on some land he owned. It accepted that initially Mr M had been 
introduced to it by UK Life.
It denied that the costs of the new arrangement were hidden from Mr M or that it was 
unnecessarily complex. Further, it considered Mayfair had accepted responsibility for all 
subsequent investment losses arising because of COBS rule 2.4.4R (otherwise known as 
the reliance on others rule) in the regulators handbook. It therefore forwarded Mr Ms 
complaint to Mayfair. Mayfair did not uphold Mr Ms complaint and that has also been 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As at 25 January 2022, Mr Ms Mayfair portfolio was invested as follows:One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint against Pi and thought it should be 
upheld, albeit that he referred to Mayfair as a DFM. In summary, he said:
- Pi hadnt investigated whether Mr M could consolidate his existing plans into the 
Standard Life GPP which had the lowest (0.27%pa) charge.
- It failed to highlight the valuable benefit of the 0.8%pa discount on the GPP or the 4% 
guaranteed annual bonus on part of the Aviva plan.
- The regulator had made clear in its thematic review into pension switching in 2009 
that a pension switch was unsuitable if additional costs were incurred for no good 
reason  and that seemed to apply here.
- Pi had assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk as balanced, which its own documentation 
shows his existing funds were broadly meeting. These were invested in broadly the 
same asset classes as Mayfairs initial proposed portfolio.
- Some of the investments subsequently made by Mayfair  referring to the above 
snapshot  seemed to be in higher-risk smaller companies and as such exceeded 
Mr Ms attitude to risk.
- Mr M didnt need to switch pensions purely in order to have the possibility of doing 
drawdown several years later: that could have been reviewed nearer the time.
- As Mr M had a relatively modest fund value, keeping costs low should have been the 
main driver - and not the added expenses or complexity of an investment manager.
The investigator concluded that Mr M should not have been advised to switch to the SIPP or 
invest in Mayfair, and had he been properly informed of the lower cost and guarantees of 
some of his existing arrangements he would not have decided to switch. He accepted that 
Mr M was looking to improve on the performance of his existing plans, so he proposed 
compensation on the basis that Mr M would have invested broadly in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return index.
The investigator took into account the possibility that Mayfairs recommendations may also 
have contributed to Mr Ms losses. But in his view, Mr M only ended up in the SIPP and 
therefore was exposed to Mayfairs advice as a result of Pis actions. He therefore 
considered that Pi should compensate Mr M for the losses he had suffered in full  and if it 
wished to do so, Pi could pursue any other parties it considered were responsible once it 
had paid that compensation.
Mr M agreed with the investigators view but Pi didnt, although it relied on the adviser (who 
no longer works for Pi) for its response. In summary, the adviser said:
- Mr M signed its pension replacement contract form which disclosed the benefit of 
the 0.8% annual charge reduction. But it also confirmed Standard Life only had 12 
funds to choose from, so it wasnt suitable advice to consolidate with that firm. 
- Mr M wasnt concerned with saving money but the opportunity of greater returns.
- It would have taken Mr M over 5 years to achieve the same amount in guaranteed 
returns on the Aviva with-profits fund that he already had in terminal bonus. And that 
plan didnt accept transfers-in.
- It was good long-term financial planning to make arrangements that enabled Mr M to 
take drawdown later on; rather than wait until an age where he may not have been 
capable of making those kinds of decisions.
- The investigator had ignored Mr Ms objectives which were articulated and agreed at 
the time of advice, including a need for flexibility and access to a wider investment 
choice with third-party management expertise.
The adviser also referred to an email exchange between Mayfair and Pi dated 23 January 
2017. He said this showed that Mayfair was accepting responsibility for suitability of the 
customers initial portfolio construction, of transactions to that mandate and ongoing 
suitability of the portfolio - in line with COBS 2.4.3R(2a), which allowed Mayfair to agree to 
treat Mr M as its own client (an exception to what was otherwise the agent as client rule).
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2022 because the 
investigator had not responded to the further comments Pi had made. However Pi has not 
responded further to the provisional decision, and Mr M accepted that decision. So I make 
no apology for largely repeating the provisional decision in its entirety below, as Ive seen no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi noted at the time that Ms pension funds may prove insufficient to give him a total income 
(including state pension) from age 67 of £24,000pa. I think that is a massive understatement 
given that its own projections showed Mr M would run out of money within six years at that 
rate of withdrawal. The reason the adviser wasnt alarmed by this appears to be entirely due 
to an expectation that Mr Ms second property and further properties he was looking to 
develop on the land he owned would, in effect, actually be his pension.
However, the adviser assessed Mr M overall as having a more balanced attitude to risk. So I 
have trouble understanding how it would have been suitable advice for Mr M to have been 
so reliant on a speculative property development to provide his pension income instead of 
seeking  as much as possible  to preserve and maximise the returns (at the lowest cost) 
from his existing pension fund.
Pi suggests that Mr M wasnt bothered by cost. There is nothing about his circumstances, 
given he had limited liquid assets, was not financially sophisticated, and did not have a high 
overall attitude to risk, to mean that he should have been expected to (or would have wanted 
to) pay higher charges for the prospect of returns that were not guaranteed to offset those 
costs. One thing that does speak true is that lower charges will have less impact on the 
growth than higher ones.The advisers comment (made in 2018) that this is effectively money to play with goes far 
from indicating he properly understood Mr Ms circumstances or provided suitable advice. 
Mr M had invested in several pensions for the purpose of providing income in retirement  so 
its not clear why the adviser had chosen to write these off as a non-core part of his 
retirement plans. Pi is also expected to independently investigate Mr Ms complaint, and 
whilst it should of course gather the advisers comments as part of that investigation, given 
that the adviser no longer represents Pi in any capacity Im surprised at the lack of scrutiny it 
has applied to those comments when responding to the investigators view.
In my opinion, Mr Ms need to grow what was clearly an insufficient pension fund as much as 
he could was best served by keeping costs low. In its guidance in July 2012 for IFAs to 
exercise caution when recommending centralised investment propositions, the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) said that said the adviser needed a reasonable belief that the 
investor could understand the nature of the risks of the underlying investments an 
investment manager would be making for him. 
Mr M does not strike me as the type of investor who would be willing to engage with, 
understand or appreciate the benefit of regular engagement with an investment manager of 
the sort Mayfair would offer. He already had the types of pension arrangement that best 
suited his level of understanding and attitude to risk  the majority of which had unbeatably 
low costs (Standard Life) or inbuilt guarantees (Aviva).
If Mayfairs dealing costs which Pi estimated at about 1.7%pa were added to the reduction in 
yield for the new SIPP of 1.4% (which had not illustrated these additional costs) the total 
comes to 3.1%pa. So the adviser was a long way from being correct in asserting that the 
charges of the new proposition came within the stakeholder cap of 1.5%. And in fact the 
average charges of Mr Ms existing pensions appear to have been well within that cap 
already.
I agree with the investigator that there was no need to consolidate Mr Ms plans for the 
purposes of flexibility until (and if) that need became unavoidable, and in the meantime they 
were more likely to grow under lower charges. There was no need for inter-generational 
estate planning when an existing personal pension would offer a return of fund tax-free on 
Mr Ms death. And if there was a worry that Mr M might lose the capacity to manage with a 
drawdown plan, that would hardly be grounds for buying one at all. If it was worth 
consolidating Mr Ms funds anywhere, clearly it was with Standard Life  as Mr M was aged 
50 and it wasnt yet necessary to have a drawdown option.
The information Pi received from Standard Life shows that it accepted transfers, and that 
Mr Ms substantial fund charge discount also applied to any new money paid in. I believe the 
adviser was also mistaken that Standard Life only offered 12 funds. The letter actually says 
Mr M can only invest in 12 funds at one time. The current key features for a Group Flexible 
Retirement Plan on Standard Lifes website says that it offers a wide range, including 
externally managed funds - and I have no reason to doubt that wasnt the position in 2017 
given Standard Lifes considerable market coverage. There would have been enough funds 
for an investor of Mr Ms limited experience - and they were well-worth using to benefit from 
the lower charges which would improve the growth prospects by 0.8%pa straight away.
The charges on the Abbey Life plan appear to be higher than Standard Life, and there was 
no penalty for transferring from this plan. Part of the Aviva plan had a guaranteed annual 
bonus and the other part did not. The adviser suggested (after the sale) that further annual 
bonuses might eat into this terminal bonus. That was certainly possible, although the 
terminal bonus reflects performance over the whole lifetime of the plan, including periods 
where the annual growth in Avivas assets exceeded the annual bonus granted. I agree that 
Mr M had an overall balanced attitude to risk, given his largely illiquid asset base outside the pension. So on balance, I think the adviser underplayed the potential benefit of keeping the 
with-profits plan in force as part of Mr Ms overall provision. 
Aviva was a financially strong company and the 4%pa guaranteed bonus was an attractive 
benefit  but I accept that Aviva was effectively charging from the with-profits funds assets 
for that guarantee and the attraction of a Standard Life plan which Mr M could transfer into 
and invest in similar assets under (potentially even with-profits) is unusual. So in conclusion, 
I think it would have been suitable advice for Mr M to consolidate all three pensions with 
Standard Life, or consolidate two of them leaving the Aviva plan intact.
Due diligence into Mayfair
Pi also had a duty to ensure any recommended investment manager was appropriate and do 
due diligence on the firm it was recommending, as initially set out in the FSA guidance on 
centralised investment propositions Ive mentioned above. As Mayfair was essentially getting 
around a lack of the managing investments permission by providing an advisory service, I 
consider the Personal Finance Societys good practice guide for due diligence into DFMs 
(dated February 2015) is still relevant here.
These papers said that the due diligence should for example include research into an 
investment firms reputation and financial standing, as well as the types of underlying assets 
it would invest in and its approach to investing. The PFS paper said advisers needed to get 
under the bonnet of a managers marketing blurb and were required to question and 
challenge information provided to them. 
Mayfair had only recently been established in 2016 and authorised about six months before 
Pi recommended it to Mr M, so particular care should have been taken. But from what I can 
see, Pi was relying on due diligence  limited as it was  carried out when Mayfair wasnt 
even directly authorised at all. Pis compliance director emailed Mayfair in January 2017, at 
which time Mayfair was an appointed representative of another firm (which unlike Mayfair did 
hold the managing investments permission). He said: 
If you have a standard due diligence document setting out details about your firm, how 
you operate etc, could I trouble you to forward this to me. I have of course obtained 
information from the public domain i.e. FCA register and Companies House.
Mayfair only responded with hyperlinks to the FCA register, its website and the directors CV. 
It enclosed the SIPP Brochure which includes details of all our Advisory Model Portfolios 
from Cautious to Speculative. It also includes a brief breakdown of the type of investments 
one could expect to see in the balanced portfolio. This appears to have been the origin of 
the chart Pi showed Mr M in his suitability report. However I see little rigorous interrogation 
of what approach Mayfair intended to take, other than Pi asking it to specifically confirm in a 
subsequent email that Mayfair would not invest in non-mainstream or unregulated collective 
investments. And that only Mayfair advisers holding the CF30 client-facing permission would 
advise clients. 
So, I havent seen persuasive evidence that Pi got under the bonnet and really understood
what kind of investments Mayfair would consider  nearly a year after the above email 
exchange  before it recommended that Mr M invest with Mayfair. And Ive noted that Pi was 
collecting 1%pa trail fees from Mr M to provide ongoing advice itself, whereas Mayfair 
claimed to be providing that service for no ongoing fee other than 1.5% dealing commission 
on each transaction. Not only could that have led to confusion as to which firm was 
reviewing the ongoing suitability of Mr Ms portfolio, it should also have led to concerns as to 
whether Mayfair could afford to provide the service being claimed or advise Mr M 
appropriately. Mayfair would have to keep moving the investments to derive any income.Involvement of the unregulated introducer
Ive considered the CMCs point that Mr M was cold-called by an unregulated third party who 
did much of the data gathering, and he didnt actually meet the Pi adviser at all. Based on 
what I have seen, I have no reason to doubt a significant part of this testimony. Pi agrees it 
accepted a referral from UK Life and as this was an unregulated firm it was not bound to the 
same conduct of business rules as Pi. No reference has been made to any meetings 
between Mr M and Pi, and I note Mr M actually signed Pis terms of business on the day he 
received the suitability report rather than at any earlier date.
The CMC has also referred to the FCAs alert from August 2016. This said the FCA was 
concerned at the increase in cases where the introducer had an inappropriate influence on 
the investment choice, or where parts of the advice process are delegated to the introducer. 
The CMC says that is what has happened here. 
Acting against this I can see that Pi says in its final response letter that its adviser completed 
his own pension review form with Mr M. A copy of this has not been provided, but I accept 
that its possible Pi carried out further fact finding or checking information with Mr M over the 
phone. However, I havent seen evidence either way to show what information it did (or did 
not) receive from UK Life in the first place - and how it ensured that Mr M was not 
inappropriately influenced by that firm. 
As Ive shown, none of the reasoning for why Mr M needed to transfer his pensions (in 
particular given the attractions of his existing plans) is strong in this case. And Im open to 
the possibility that Mr M had already been encouraged by the unregulated introducer into 
thinking that it was a good idea to transfer. I think Pi should have countered any 
preconceptions Mr M had by firmly emphasizing the benefits of those existing plans - rather 
than referring to them as frozen and allowing him to be attracted to exciting opportunities 
elsewhere which dont seem to have been appropriate to his attitude to risk.
Pis view that Mayfair should be held responsible for Mr Ms losses
In support of this, Pi has quoted both the reliance on others rule (COBS 2.4.4R) and an 
exclusion from the agent as client rule (COBS 2.4.3R(2a) ).
The reliance on others rule says that in being instructed to provide investment services, 
Mayfair was entitled to rely on any information provided to it by Pi; or any recommendations 
Pi had given to the mutual client, Mr M. But it also says that Pi would remain responsible for 
the accuracy of the abovementioned information and suitability of the abovementioned 
recommendations. In other words, Pi remained responsible for its decision to recommend 
Mayfair to Mr M (and for the ongoing review service it was charging to provide him). This rule 
doesnt prevent me from deciding that Mr M would not have suffered losses (including losses 
from investments recommended by Mayfair), but for Pis advice to use Mayfair.
The agent as client rule, in circumstances where it applies, would actually have limited 
Mayfairs regulatory responsibilities to Mr M. But as Pi has correctly noted, Mayfair negated 
this rule by provide its services directly to Mr M as client  so reference to either of these 
rules add little to this complaint. Pi does correctly say that Mayfair confirmed in writing - 
albeit at a point significantly earlier and when it was regulated differently - that it was 
accepting responsibility for the suitability of its own recommendations (which is obviously 
correct). But its important to note this does not mean to the exclusion of Pis wider duty of 
care to Mr M, as a result of recommending Mayfair to him in the first place.Based on the more recent valuation Ive seen, it looks like some of Mr Ms investments may 
have been too risky and specialised for his attitude to risk. I do not know if that was the 
position right from outset or that became the position later on. Either way, if Mayfair has 
recommended investments that were too high risk and have lost value, it could also and 
separately be considered to have caused some of the same losses. However, Im deciding 
the complaint against Pi and Im satisfied that without its unsuitable recommendation to use 
Mayfair, those losses could have been avoided.
Pi seems to have exercised insufficient oversight over Mr Ms application to open a trading 
account for Mayfair, given that the application notes Mr M had carried out trades in collective 
investments and alternative investment market shares (when I cannot see that he had), and 
would as a result place 20% of his portfolio into alternative shares and non-investment grade 
debt. It refers to investments in AIM and penny shares and companies trading on the NEX
Exchange. Pi should have overseen the handover of their mutual client and that alone gives 
me reason to say it should have found out and queried such an asset strategy further, asked 
for more information about what sorts of bonds Mayfair would usually invest in, and what due 
diligence they would do on the investments.
Further, given the existing pension arrangements Mr M held, one of which was particularly 
low cost and with access to a fund range that would suit Mr Ms attitude to risk, this is a case 
where an investment manager (or DFM) was a long way from being suitable for him. It was 
also too complex, requiring Mr M to take investment decisions he wouldnt understand. So, 
in the circumstances of this case I consider it fair and reasonable that Pi compensates Mr M 
for all his losses. If Pi feels Mayfair is also at fault here, it is free to pursue Mayfair directly 
after it has compensated Mr M in full.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently, likely within the Standard Life 
pension or a combination of the Standard Life and Aviva pensions (in order to retain the 
with-profits component). It's not possible to say precisely what he would have done 
differently. But I'm satisfied that what I've set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of his investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr M's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Pi's payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Pi shouldn't pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, Pi should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is to ensure the compensation is a fair amount - it isn't a payment of tax to HMRC, so 
Mr M won't be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
It's reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, Pi must pay Mr M £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
unnecessary introduction of the SIPP and Mayfair into his retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi consider that It's required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Pi should tell Mr M how much 
it's taken off. Pi should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Original 
transfer 
values   
paid into  
IM SIPP   Some
liquid/ 
some 
illiquidFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
IndexDate(s) of 
transfers-inDate of my 
final 
decision8% per annum 
simple from date 
of final decision if 
Pi does not settle 
within 28 days of 
receipt of Mr Ms 
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the portfolio at the end date. If, at the end date, 
any investment in the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. So, Pi should take 
ownership of any illiquid investments by paying a commercial value for them that is 
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount Pi pays should be included in the actual 
value before compensation is calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase an illiquid investment, its value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of arriving at the actual value of the portfolio. Pi may wish to require that Mr M 
provides an undertaking to pay Pi any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the portfolio would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any contributions made into the SIPP should be included in this benchmark return from the 
point they were added. Any withdrawals made from the SIPP should be deducted from the 
benchmark return from the point they were paid. If there are a large number of deductions and it prefers to do this, Ill accept if Pi deducts them all at the end of the calculation. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I've chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It's a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay him compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman