DRN-3158715
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account without warning and closed it. Mr B 
didnt receive the funds. He would like compensation for the way Revolut dealt with the 
account closure and the failures in customer service.
What happened
Mr B had an account with Revolut.
On 4 May 2020 Revolut carried out a review of his account.
Revolut blocked his account whilst they carried out the review. Mr B didnt have access to 
his funds. 
Revolut asked Mr B for proof of entitlement of funds. Mr B told Revolut that the funds were 
proceeds from rental income and provided evidence of this in the form of bank statements. 
Revolut werent satisfied with the statements and asked Mr B to provide them with a recent 
tax return. Mr B refused, he thought this was too intrusive. Revolut said they would continue 
their review.
Between 4 May and 8 June 2020 Revolut says Mr B was still able to make card payments 
and cash withdrawals but was not able to carry out external transfers. 
On 8 June Revolut concluded their review and sent the funds in Mr Bs account back to 
source. They messaged Mr B about the closure of the account through the Revolut app but 
as his access had been blocked, he didnt get the message. 
Mr B complained to Revolut. On 29 June Mr B got a response to his original complaint. 
Revolut confirmed that his account had been closed and the funds sent back to source.
Mr B says he had no access to his account which held Euro 5000 and £274.
Mr B has also told us that due to his access on the app being disabled it was difficult to 
contact Revolut. This made him more anxious about the whereabouts of his funds 
As he was unhappy with Revoluts response he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. he issued a first view. He said although 
Revolut had successfully sent most of Mr Bs money back to him as the source of the funds, 
Mr B hadnt received Euro 1000. He thought Revolut should refund this to Mr B together with 
8% interest.
Mr B was unhappy with this  he thought Revolut had provided bad customer service and 
made it difficult for him to contact them to find out where his money had gone. He thought he 
should be entitled to substantial compensation because of the way Revolut had treated him. 
He was unable to contact them and was anxious as he didnt know what had happened to 
his funds.
Our investigator reconsidered the evidence and issued a second view. He thought Revolut 
should pay Mr B £100 compensation because of the poor customer service. Specifically, 
Mr B was informed of the closure of his account via the app on the same day that Revolut 
disabled the app- so there was no way of him finding out his account had been disabled. He 
found it very difficult to communicate with Revolut to find out the whereabouts of his funds 
once that app was disabled.
Mr B was disappointed with this second view and he thought he should receive 
compensation in the region of £1000 for the inconvenience and poor customer service he 
received from Revolut.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and blocking of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Bs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what Revolut was doing when it reviewed and blocked Mr Bs account. 
I appreciate Mr B found this whole episode frustrating, but Revolut are entitled to carry out 
reviews of their customers accounts under regulations and the terms of the account. So, I 
cant say they have done anything wrong when they blocked and reviewed Mr Bs account.
Closure of the Account
Revolut asked Mr B for more information as to the source of funds in order to completer their 
review. As Mr B didnt want to provide this information, Revolut were entitled to close the 
account in line with the terms and conditions. Having checked them, Im satisfied Revolut 
acted in line with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Bs account.
Funds in the account
Revolut said it had returned funds to source. But Mr B hadnt found out until the 29 June.  
Mr B was finally able to locate most of his funds. However, 1000 Euro of Mr Bs money had 
not been returned to his card- which was the source of the funds. Revolut have agreed to 
refund this amount to Mr B. and add 8% interest to compensate him for not having use of the 
funds. I agree that this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Failures in customer service
Mr B has told us he had difficulties contacting Revolut once they disabled the app on the 
8 June. Although we dont interfere with firms processes, I do find it problematic that 
Revoluts main form of communication is via app when this has been disabled by Revolut 
themselves. I can appreciate that Mr B found it frustrating trying to find an email address for Revolut. 
Getting a response from Revolut was also difficult. I have seen email correspondence that 
indicates he had to wait a considerable time for responses from Revolut. I appreciate that it 
must have been concerning for Mr B to have to wait until the 29 of June to find out what 
happened to his funds. I have also taken into consideration that most of Mr Bs funds were 
returned to his account by the 9 June.
Putting things right
Although I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with the amount I am awarding, taking all 
into consideration and applying our approach to distress and inconvenience awards, I 
consider that £100 is a fair amount of compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I direct Revolut Ltd to pay Mr B the following:
1000 Euros together with 8 % compensation from 8 June 2020 until date of payment.
£100 compensation for his material distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman