DRN-4107887
The complaint
Mr T complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down an NHS cash benefit claim he 
made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr T visited his local hospital with severe abdominal pain. He was 
prescribed antibiotics. However, Mr Ts symptoms didnt resolve and so he sought further 
medical attention. Mr T underwent a scan and it was suggested that he may need an 
appendectomy. Mr T says that he spoke to his broker, who indicated that this procedure 
would be covered by his private medical insurance. 
So Mr T obtained a quote for the surgery from a private hospital, which was for around 
£13,000. He felt the cost of treatment was too high and he therefore decided against private 
surgery. He says that he returned to his GP who referred him to an NHS hospital for elective 
treatment. He also says that due to the time of admission, he was admitted to a ward via A 
and E.
Mr T underwent eight days of treatment for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and an 
inflamed appendix. He didnt undergo appendectomy surgery. He made a claim on his 
private medical insurance policy for NHS cash benefit.
Vitality looked into Mr Ts claim. In placed particular weight on Mr Ts hospital discharge 
summary which suggested that Mr T had been admitted to a ward from the emergency 
department. It therefore concluded that hed been admitted as an emergency patient. And it 
didnt think Mr Ts treatment had been scheduled more than 24 hours in advance. So it said 
he wasnt eligible for NHS cash benefit. It did acknowledge that it hadnt handled Mr Ts 
claim as promptly as it shouldve done.
Mr T was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought itd been fair for Vitality to turn down Mr Ts claim. She thought it 
had been reasonable for Vitality to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. However, she felt that Vitality should pay compensation for the delays in its handling 
of Mr Ts claim and so she recommended that it should pay him £150.
Vitality accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator and Ive summarised his telephone and written 
responses. He maintained that his broker had been assured that his treatment was covered 
and that hed paid for the top level of private medical cover. He said hed been admitted to 
hospital on an elective basis, but that he couldve chosen to go in on the following day. He 
provided a letter from his broker which stated that the appendectomy procedure Mr T had 
been recommended was eligible for cover under his policy, subject to normal underwriting 
checks. And he felt the compensation award was too low, given the time and inconvenience 
hed been put to by Vitality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I think it was fair for Vitality to turn down 
his NHS cash benefit claim. Im also satisfied that Vitality has now agreed to pay him fair 
compensation for the way it handled his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ts policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether I think 
Vitality treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy, as these form the basis of the 
contract between Mr T and Vitality. The policy states that Vitality will cover NHS cash benefit 
of £250 per night up to a limit of £2000 per year for in-patient treatment a policyholder 
receives which they wouldve been eligible to undergo privately. However, the policy also 
sets out a specific list of things Vitality has chosen to exclude from cover. The contract 
explicitly states that Vitality wont pay NHS cash benefit if a policyholder is admitted to 
hospital as an emergency. The policy also explicitly excludes any admission to hospital that 
was scheduled less than 24 hours in advance. Vitality considers that the medical evidence 
indicates Mr T was admitted to hospital as an emergency. So Ive gone on to think about 
whether this was a fair conclusion for Vitality to reach.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough medical 
evidence to show they have a valid claim on their insurance policy. In this case, Mr T 
provided Vitality with a copy of his hospital discharge summary. This shows that Mr T was 
admitted to hospital in the evening of 7 January 2022. The report says:
Patient was admitted to the surgical team from GP to ED on 07/01/2022 for abdominal 
pain...Patient was investigated with CTAP on 07/01, and was discussed with 
radiologyFindings were confirmed to determine appendicitis andcolitis.
The report shows that Mr T underwent further testing a few days later and was diagnosed 
with ulcerative colitis. He was treated with steroids and prescribed antibiotics. The report 
says that Mr T was to be followed-up three months later to consider an elective 
appendectomy.
I appreciate Mr T says that he saw his GP who referred him for surgery, but on an elective 
basis. He says this meant that he could attend and be admitted to hospital the following day 
if he wished to. However, I dont think it was unfair for Vitality to rely on the discharge 
summary it was sent when it assessed the claim. This report stated that Mr T had previously 
attended A and E around a week earlier for a similar issue and had been prescribed 
antibiotics. On 7 January 2022, he had been admitted to hospital via A and E after seeing his 
GP. It seems that this was because he was continuing to experience abdominal pain, 
despite the earlier antibiotic treatment. In my view, this report indicates it was more likely 
than not that Mr T wasnt admitted for a planned procedure, but instead, had been admitted 
as an emergency for further investigation into potential appendicitis. Our investigator asked 
Mr T if he could provide a copy of the GP referral letter, but this hasnt been sent to us. So I 
havent seen persuasive medical evidence to show that Mr Ts admission was planned or 
that it had been scheduled more than 24 hours in advance. On that basis, I dont find it was 
unfair for Vitality to conclude that the claim for NHS cash benefit was specifically excluded 
from cover.Mr T has provided a letter from his broker which says that theyd understood Mr T would be 
eligible for a private appendectomy, in line with Vitalitys standard underwriting checks. I 
havent seen enough evidence to show me that Vitality did authorise such a procedure. But 
even if it did, the available medical evidence shows that Mr T didnt undergo an 
appendectomy while he was an NHS inpatient. It seems he was treated with steroids and 
antibiotics. His treatment plan indicates that a discussion around a planned appendectomy 
was intended to take place around three months later. On that basis, I dont think I could 
fairly find that Vitality had authorised the treatment Mr T actually received, even if his broker 
had been told appendectomy surgery was covered.
If Mr T is able to obtain further evidence from his GP or the treating hospital which shows 
that his admission wasnt an emergency, and that it had been planned and scheduled more 
than 24 hours in advance, its open to him to send this evidence to Vitality for it to consider. 
However, on the evidence I have before me, I find that it was fair for Vitality to conclude that 
Mr Ts NHS cash benefit claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. So it follows that Im not 
directing Vitality to pay Mr Ts claim.
It's clear though that Vitality didnt handle the claim as well as it shouldve done. It took some 
months for it to assess the medical evidence and Mr T was put to some unnecessary time 
and trouble in dealing with the claim. I agree then with the investigator that its fair and 
reasonable for Vitality to pay Mr T some compensation to reflect the material distress and 
inconvenience its errors had on him. In my view, £150 compensation is a fair award to 
recognise the trouble and upset I think Mr T was likely put to. Our role isnt to fine or punish 
the businesses we cover and I cant see that any delay in the claims handling caused Mr T 
to suffer any delays in further treatment or cause him material distress. I was pleased to note 
that Vitality accepted the recommendation to pay Mr T £150 compensation and I now direct 
it to pay this award if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that it was fair and reasonable for 
Vitality to turn down Mr Ts claim, but that it didnt handle his claim fairly.
I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr T £150 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman