DRN-3200325
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc has blocked transactions he made, which resulted in 
him losing money.
What happened
Mr A had previously made payments to a third party trading platform. But when he attempted 
to transfer £150, Santander blocked him from doing so, even though earlier in the day he 
had successfully added £235 from his Santander account to his trading account. 
Mr A then tried to make three transactions for a smaller amount to see if this would work, but 
he says all of the attempted payments were unsuccessful. He said he had been transferring 
money from his Santander account to his trading account for six weeks prior to this point and 
Santander knew this and they hadnt blocked any payments prior to this. 
Mr A contacted Santander. He said he spoke to a fraud prevention manager and asked her 
why he hadnt received a call or a text regarding the blocked transactions. Mr A complained 
to Santander and he said he believed this was a bank error, which resulted in him losing 
over £1300, as he said if the Santander transactions would have been authorised it would 
have saved his trading account.
Santander did not uphold Mr As complaint. They said there are a number of reasons why 
transactions are referred or can result in a security concern and the criteria is reviewed and 
updated on a regular basis, therefore they would be unable to provide specific scenarios 
where a transaction would be referred for investigation. They said that their security system 
monitors known fraud trends and if a debit card transaction mirrors this behaviour, then 
action will be taken to prevent loss to the customer.
In relation to Santander not contacting Mr A, they said usually he would have received  
automated contact to update the transaction as genuine without having to speak to an 
advisor, however in this case due to the nature of the security concerns, a restriction was 
placed on his card prompting him to contact Santander to discuss the payment. They said 
they had up until close of business to review any payment. Santander also said they had 
identified no errors in regards to processes or policies followed on this occasion.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He 
quoted some of the terms and conditions of the account which made it reasonably clear that 
Santander have these measures in place to protect customers. And Santander can decline 
or temporarily block payments while the relevant checks are carried out. 
Our investigator also said that while Mr A didnt receive a call or text about this, due to the 
nature of some security concerns, restrictions can automatically be placed on the account 
which would prompt customers to contact Santander to discuss the payment attempted.
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said that Santander knew that it was him personally making the transactions at 
that particular time, so assuming that they blocked his transaction due to security is not 
understandable. He also said he had made transactions to the same company before the 
block and had being doing so for six weeks previously, so he didnt believe the transaction 
was blocked for security reasons. Mr A also said he spoke to a fraud manager and said he 
would normally receive a phone call or a text if a transaction had been blocked and he hadnt 
received either here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr As account explain that Santander has the ability to refuse any payment 
instruction if they reasonably suspect it relates to fraud. Santander has explained that was 
the case here, because if an account monitors known fraud trends and if a debit card 
transaction mirrors this behaviour, then action will be taken to prevent loss to their customer, 
in this case, Mr A. So I think it was fair for Santander to want to perform some checks to 
make sure this was a genuine transaction in these circumstances. That would, of course, 
cause Mr A some inconvenience  as it would any customer. But thats not to say that 
Santander wasnt entitled to perform further checks  I think they were and I think they did so 
fairly. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said about not receiving a phone call or a text about the 
blocked transactions. So Ive looked at Mr As terms and conditions. Section 9.9 of the 
general terms and conditions of the account says, Our fraud detection systems may 
highlight unusual spending patterns. We may call you, write to you or send you an SMS if
there are unusual payments in or out of your account or if we believe your account is at risk 
of a security threat.
So I can understand why Mr A believes he should have had a phone call or text from 
Santander. But the language used in this section here says we may and not we will. So 
Im persuaded that it would be reasonable at times for Santander not to do this. As 
Santander have already explained in their final response letter, in this case due to the nature 
of the security concerns, a restriction was placed on the card prompting Mr A to contact 
Santander to discuss the payment.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about Santander knowing that it was him personally 
making these payments. But Im not persuaded that it would be apparent to Santander that it 
was Mr A himself who made the payments  even though in this case it genuinely was. I say 
this because a fraudster may be able to gain access to a customers account, which may 
seem like its the account holder making transactions when its not. Thats why banks have 
controls in place to spot trends which may suggest an account has been compromised. 
I can see that when Mr A contacted Santander and confirmed the transactions were genuine 
then he was able to continue making payments to the trading platform. So Im persuaded its 
this extra level of security which reassured Santander that it was genuinely Mr A attempting 
to make the payments and not somebody else and that they werent fully aware it was Mr A 
attempting to make multiple payments on the same day until he personally confirmed this  
even if he had been making similar transactions for a number of weeks.
In summary, Santander has shown that the blocks they put on the attempted transactions 
were based on the activity on the account. Thats in line with what the terms allow Santander 
to do and Im satisfied this was a genuine and legitimate reason for them to take the actions 
they did. The access to allow Mr A to continue to make these payments was concluded in a 
timely manner after Mr A contacted Santander. So although Mr A will have been frustrated 
by what happened here, Im satisfied they treated him fairly and Im not persuaded that 
Santander made any errors by placing a block on these transactions, even if Mr A says this has caused him losses with the third party. So it follows I will not be asking Santander to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman