DRN-3458318
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays caused by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when he tried to end his finance agreement early. He is also unhappy about them 
completing a second inspection on the car and about the charges that were subsequently 
applied. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held him responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damages
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be 
mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection 
after the car was collected.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present 
when vehicles are collected. That was the case here, but Mr C wasnt given an opportunity 
to be present for the second inspection.
I dont think Mr C was disadvantaged by that as I think the damage is visible in the first 
inspection report.
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards Ive considered the damage in the 
inspection reports against the BVRLA standard. Ive done that because I think its fairer to 
consider the damage against the industry guidelines rather than those of the finance 
company. But, regardless, all of the damage falls outside of both standards. 
Mr C is particularly concerned that hes been charged for the replacement of a headlamp. 
The BVRLA guidance says, minor scuffs or scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable. The 
inspectors photographs show the scuffs to be longer than 25mm and there are several of 
them. The guidance doesnt say that scuffs are acceptable if the car passes the MOT 
standard so I dont think it would be fair to suggest a charge wasnt applicable here.
The BVRLA guidance also says that scratches less than 25mm and dents less than 
15mm in diameter are acceptable. But the damage in the photographs, evidenced by the 
rulers and zebra boards, shows the panel damage being charged for is in excess of that 
standard and charges have therefore been fairly applied.
The BVRLA standard also explains that the tyre inflation kit must be in working order and 
that cant be said to be the case here as the tyre sealant was missing. I understand Mr C 
accepts that charge.
I also understand that Mr C returned the car with less mileage than he was contracted to 
complete. Theres no contractual agreement for MBFS to offset that lower mileage against 
any end of contract charges they may seek to make so I cant say they were unfair not to do 
so.
The BVRLA guidance suggests charges can still be applied at the end of a lease in cases 
where the leasing company decides for commercial purposes not to repair the damage so 
I think, even if MBFS, immediately auctioned the car, they would have been entitled to do so 
and make refurbishment charges for the damage that had been identified in order to mitigate 
any subsequent loss at auction.
So, Im not persuaded that the charges applied by MBFS have been unreasonable.
The delays
Mr C says there were excessive delays in the voluntary termination process, and hes 
referred us to several calls he had with MBFS. In the call he had with them on 29 June he 
explained that he understood there was still several months left on the agreement, but he 
wanted to end it early. I think that suggests there hadnt been an application to do so earlier 
 only a request for information about voluntary termination. So, I think any delay can only 
fairly be estimated from this point. There was therefore a short delay but not an excessive 
one and, in the circumstances I think MBFSs offer of £80 compensation for the delays Mr C 
experienced was fair. Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman