DRN-3346603
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined to refund £750 which he lost 
as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not go into every detail 
of what happened here. But, in summary, both parties accept that in April - May 2021, Mr H 
was tricked into sending two payments in the belief he was sending them to secure the 
purchase of a puppy. 
Mr H was looking to get a puppy so searched on a well-known pet classified advert website. 
He found an advert for the kind of puppy he was interested in getting, so messaged the 
breeder. He spoke with the breeder, asking lots of questions about their dog and its health. 
They told him that their dog was not yet pregnant, but they were aiming to get her pregnant 
when she next came into season, following advice from a vet as she had suffered with a 
phantom pregnancy after her last season. He was told that they had a stud dog lined up, 
and he said he was given the details of this dog too. 
After messaging for some time, the breeders agreed to meet him at their address so he 
could meet them and their dog, and they could check his suitability to own one of their 
puppies. Mr H sent a holding deposit of £200 before meeting them, as he wanted to show he 
was serious about buying the puppy. He met them in their home and walked their dog with 
them. The breeders added him to their social media, and shared their driving licence and 
council tax documentation with him too. He was satisfied that the photos of their home and 
their dog matched with what he saw in real life. Believing things to be legitimate he sent the 
second payment of £550 as a down payment to secure a puppy when one should be born.  
He was told he was one of three people that they had chosen to have a puppy, but that he 
could get his money back should a puppy not become available. 
The scam came to light when the breeders stopped communicating with him, following on 
from making excuses as to why there was not yet a puppy. Mr H raised the matter with 
Monzo. Monzo investigated his complaint and issued its final response in August 2021, not 
upholding the complaint. In summary, they did not accept liability because they said that Mr 
H could have done more to check he was dealing with a legitimate breeder who was going to 
sell him a puppy. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. They recommended that the complaint should 
be upheld, and that Monzo should refund the money that Mr H had lost, along with interest. 
In summary, our investigator thought this was a sophisticated scam and very believable to 
Mr H, so he had a reasonable basis for believing that he was making a payment to get a 
puppy. 
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators opinion on Mr Hs complaint. In summary, they 
maintained that he did not do sufficient checks to ensure he was genuinely talking to a 
legitimate breeder who had a puppy to sell him because: 
The puppy he was paying to purchase was fictitious  he had been informed that the 
dog was not pregnant but the deposit would guarantee a puppy if one were to come 
about; 
No paperwork was involved and the only basis for trust appeared to be meeting the 
breeder face to face  so there was no misleading paperwork involved in the scam; 
They accept our investigators point that there were no red flags in the conversation 
between Mr H and the breeder, but said that it does not mitigate his negligence as 
scammers do not begin their messages with this is a scam, but; 
Whilst Mr H met the scammer in person, scams can happen in person or remotely. 
Ultimately, meeting them did not prove they were legitimate, it just proved they had a 
dog; 
Whilst the scammer told him elaborate stories about why the dog was being bred, 
this is not unusual for scammers to do to convince their victims of things; 
They could not see any reference to the stud dog in the screenshots they had been 
provided so were unable to comment on whether Mr H spoke with the breeder about 
this; 
In response to Monzos earlier point that Mr H was paying for something knowing it 
did not yet exist, our investigator had pointed out that it was not unusual for people to 
pay for things that did not yet exist  for example paying for a bespoke cake prior to 
an event. They said that this was not comparable to paying for the manifestation of a 
dog as with the cake you would provide details of what you wanted and it would be 
made to order. Whereas here, Mr H was paying for the potential of a new puppy 
coming into existence. Paying for a puppy that did not yet exist was negligent; and
The price was a reasonable price for a puppy, but not a reasonable deposit for a non-
existent creature. 
As agreement could not be reached, it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of their customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mr H lost in line with the provisions of the 
CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr  
H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. There is no dispute here that Mr H was 
tricked into making the payments. But this is not enough, in and of itself, for Mr H to receive 
a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr H too. 
The CRM Code Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances, but has agreed to apply its 
principles. Monzo say exceptions to reimbursement apply in this case. It says that Mr H 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was legitimate or 
that they would ever have a puppy to sell him.It is for Monzo to establish that a customer 
failed to meet a requisite level of care under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in 
the CRM Code. 
The exception relevant to this case is where the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate payee for 
genuine goods or services? 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr H had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the transactions were genuine. But it does not persuade me to reach 
this conclusion. In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr H failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code 
and I dont consider that Mr H lacked a reasonable basis for belief. I say this because: 
The scammers went out of their way to build trust here  meeting Mr H in person, 
taking him out with them and their dog for a walk, adding him on social media, and 
sending him copies of identification documents. I appreciate Monzos argument that 
this proved nothing other than the fact the people he met had a dog. But these 
scammers went above and beyond what we see in a lot of scams of this kind  and I 
can understand why this helped satisfy Mr H, a would-be first-time dog owner, that 
they were legitimate. One might assume that scams in this arena involve people 
operating puppy farms, or people who are not who they say they are and may not 
even have a dog. Mr H was able to satisfy himself that neither of these were the case 
when he met the scammers  and I can see why it made him trust them more than 
an anonymous person online. 
I can also understand why the messages Mr H and the scammers exchanged, 
combined with the meeting and other elements mentioned above, led Mr H to believe 
he was dealing with a legitimate breeder. Mr H asked them the kind of questions one 
might be advised to ask a potential breeder around health screening and so on  and 
they were able to give him results that I would imagine would satisfy most members 
of the public. I do appreciate that scammers can come up with elaborate stories (as 
they did here) and that scammers dont start their messages with I am a scammer, 
but I do think it is important in establishing whether Mr H had a reasonable basis for 
belief that the messages he exchanged with the scammers did not include any 
particular red flags that would alert him to the risk that he was falling victim to a 
scam. And the story the scammers gave him about the vet suggesting that their dog 
have a litter was plausible. 
Monzo have argued that he was paying to purchase a fictitious puppy as it did not 
exist and it may never have existed. It is not unusual for breeders to organise buyers 
or operate waiting lists for puppies that are yet to be conceived, and some will involve 
down payments to ensure the potential buyer is serious. I dont think this means that 
a person who makes such a payment should be considered negligent. It is my 
understanding that this became more prevalent between 2020-21 due to a puppy purchasing boom. And in this case they told Mr H that there was a stud dog lined up, 
and this litter had been recommended by a vet so I think it added to his belief that the 
dog was likely to be impregnated in the near future. 
Monzo have argued that any deposit or down-payment should have been paid 
through the website he found the breeder on, which had launched a deposit scheme 
in 2020. I agree that he should have done this  but it was a relatively new process 
and prior to this, and certainly with other puppy sales outside of this website, it would 
not be unusual to pay deposits directly to a breeder. So I dont think that this impacts 
Mr Hs basis for belief. 
Monzo have also argued that the price he paid may have been reasonable for a 
puppy, but it was not reasonable for a deposit on a non-existent creature. I am not 
persuaded by this as he believed it was a deposit  and that it would be returned in 
the event of the puppies not coming into existence. 
There was no paperwork involved between Mr H and the scammers, and Monzo 
argue that this means he sent the money without any misleading paperwork involved 
in him falling victim to the scam. It is not unusual for formal contracts to be 
exchanged at the point of purchase with a puppy. Even if Mr H was unaware of this, 
both parties were allegedly new to the sales process for puppies so I dont think the 
lack of paperwork would have been a red flag to Mr H. 
On balance, I am satisfied that when considering all of the circumstances, Mr Hs response 
was not unreasonable. The scammers went out of their way to appear legitimate and 
credible to Mr H, and I think it is perfectly understandable that he felt he was able to trust 
them. It does appear that Mr H may have been aware of some types of puppy related 
scams, but this one did not have the common hallmarks of those scams. So after meeting 
the scammers, I do not believe that Mr H was alive to the possibility that he was dealing with 
a scammer. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code that Monzo have agreed to adhere to the principles of, I am 
not satisfied Monzo has been able to establish that when Mr H sent the payments he did so 
without a reasonable basis for belief. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as I 
have explained, I am satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think it is fair that Monzo should: 
Refund the £750 lost as the result of the scam; and 
Pay 8% simple interest from the date they declined to refund Mr H under the CRM 
Code until the date of the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Monzo 
Bank Ltd and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman