DRN-1674551
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that FirstRand Bank Limited imposed unfair fees on his hire purchase 
account.
What happened
Mr F acquired a car in 2014 funded in part by a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand. He 
paid off the loan in December 2016, but he was left with legal fees to pay. He made a 
complaint about these fees which was considered by this service in 2017. 
During the course of the loan payments were due by direct debit, but these failed on a 
number of occasions and fees were charged. Mr F complained about these and FirstRand 
reviewed the account and concluded that two £12 fees had been imposed incorrectly. It 
repaid these plus interest and it also paid £20 compensation for failing to return a call. Mr F 
brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
She explained that his complaint about the legal fees had been dealt with in December 2017 
and so it wasnt within our power to consider it a second time. She reviewed the account and 
was satisfied that the charges imposed by the business were correct save for the two which 
had been refunded. 
Finally she considered if FirstRand had been made aware that Mr F had been in financial 
difficulty. She was unable to identify anything that showed Mr F had told the business that he 
was struggling financially. He had missed a number of payments and had also made 
payments on time, but this of itself didnt indicate he was facing financial problems.
Mr F didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked into in more detail and that the 
legal charges be reconsidered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the matter of the legal charges our rules make it clear that as this complaint has been 
resolved it is not within my power to reopen it. Therefore, I can only consider the new 
complaints made by Mr F.
I have gone through all the evidence provided in some detail and I dont consider I can 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. I will explain why.
Mr F entered into an agreement which allows FirstRand to impose a fee for late payments. 
On a number of occasions the direct debit payment failed and Mr made payment late as a 
result. I am satisfied that FirstRand operated within the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. This allows it to impose fees for late payment and to charge interest. I would add that it removed £121.24 fees that had been correctly charged and I cannot say that it should 
refund anymore.
I have also reviewed the business notes and call recordings and I am unable to identify that 
Mr F said he was in financial trouble or that he asked for help. He told the business that 
there were issues with his bank and made arrangements to pay off arrears. I can find no 
basis for the claim that he was in financial difficulty or that he told the business that he was. 
He did fall into arrears a number of times, but these were paid off quite quickly and he was 
able to settle the account early in 2016 paying over £9,000. As such I cannot say that the 
business has done anything wrong in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman