DRN-3021564
The complaint
Mr W complains with the help of a professional representative that Aviva Life & Pensions Ltd 
(Aviva) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of his Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) and into a Personal Pension.
What happened
In December 1989 Mr W met with a Provident Mutual adviser (now Aviva) and took out a 
new Personal Pension.
In 1990 on Avivas advice Mr W transferred £4,375.85 from his Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS).
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that had happened 
between 29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994.
In January 2001 the outcome and redress offer resulting from this review was communicated 
to Mr W. This offer was accepted. An amount of £551 was added to Mr Ws plan. Also as 
part of the offer, life cover with a sum assured of £11,500 was set up until Mr W reached age 
60.
More recently through his representative, Mr W raised a complaint with Aviva about the 
advice received in 1990. 
Aviva responded to say that as the advice had been assessed as part of the Pension 
Review, with redress paid in 2001, they did not believe they had to consider Mr Ws 
complaint further.
Our investigator looked into matters and said he thought it was more likely than not that 
Aviva had carried out the review in line with the guidance at the time. He said whilst Aviva 
didnt have the documentation from the time, it had evidenced that the review had been 
carried out and Mr W had accepted it. He also said that Aviva wouldve checked the 
calculations internally and the regulator carried out external checks to make sure firms were 
complying with the guidance.
Mr Ws representatives said as Aviva hadnt retained all the information from the review at 
the time, they couldnt demonstrate it had been done correctly and therefore it should be 
reviewed again using FG17/9. It says in its experience the majority of reviews failed to 
adhere to regulatory standards.
Aviva added that it was audited by the regulator and there were no concerns raised about 
the way it was carrying out its Pension Reviews. It says it used the industry standard 
software and customers had the opportunity to challenge the reviews at the time. It added 
that Fair Return refers all their Pension Review cases to this service regardless of whether 
they can provide the full loss assessments evidencing it was carried out correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is the Pension Review applicable?
Both parties agree the Pension Review process was the correct way to address this 
situation. And for the avoidance of doubt, I think it was the correct way to address the 
transfer back in 2001. The regulator intended it to be applied in these circumstances.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer  it is not required to 
look at the matter again. Providing the review addressed the circumstances of the complaint 
and had been carried out in line with the relevant guidance. I think this represents a fair and 
reasonable position when considering this complaint.
Avivas position
Avivas position is that it has already considered Mr Ws transfer in-line with the SIB Pension 
Review guidance starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business  
Statement of Policy on 25 October 1994 and updated by subsequent regulators thereafter. 
And so, it has no obligation under the guidance to look at this again.
Mr Ws representatives position
Mr Ws representative says that the review in 2001 wasnt carried out correctly and the 
calculation should be re-done but instead using the updated FG17/9 review guidance. 
Mr Ws representative says that the review was done incorrectly but hasnt provided any 
evidence to say why. Other than there have been reviews done incorrectly so its possible 
this one was done incorrectly as well. Its also said that Aviva were required to retain the 
documentation indefinitely so that it could be independently reviewed. And as it hasnt done 
so, it cannot demonstrate inline with FG17/9 that it carried out the review in line with the 
guidance at the time  and the particular circumstances of the case were addressed.
Was there a mistake in the original review?
Aviva hasnt retained all of the documentation from the time of the review as it was required 
to do so. But this doesnt mean they didnt carry out the review in line with the guidance at 
the time.
What Aviva does have is evidence that the review was carried out, that Mr W accepted it and 
the amount of redress it paid.
Where we dont have all the information we require, we have to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities. As we dont have all the documentation from the time, its not 
possible to check all of the inputs into the calculation. And whilst Aviva shouldve retained 
this information, it is now some twenty years after the calculation was carried out. Mr Ws 
complaint about the review failing regulatory standards is also speculative  its not based on 
anything specific to him. And at the time he wouldve been provided with information about 
the calculation, the assumptions it was based on, and given the opportunity to say if 
something didnt look right. However, he accepted the result of the review then.
Furthermore, the regulator provided assumptions and a framework for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies 
or set up specialist teams to do the reviews. And businesses carrying out the reviews were 
subject to external quality checks by the regulator. In our experience the large majority of 
calculations have been calculated in line with the regulators guidance. And as Aviva have 
said, its Pension Review project was audited and it says no concerns were raised. 
From the evidence we do have its clear that Mr W policy was part of the Pension Review, 
Aviva did carry out calculations and Mr W was compensated. He wouldve also been asked 
to check the information within the review was correct and given he accepted the review 
outcome, I think its likely that it was. Therefore, all of this leads me to the conclusion that on 
the balance of probabilities, the review most likely met the regulatory standards or 
requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at the time. And the particular 
circumstances of the case were addressed by those standards.
Conclusions
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and in 2001 Mr W agreed a final settlement in 
respect of the transfer advice he received. Only in limited circumstances would I look beyond 
that agreement. That would include where the calculation was done incorrectly. But the 
evidence Ive seen suggests it likely was done correctly. And so I dont think theres any 
reason for me to require Aviva to redo the redress calculation again.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman