DRN-1129532
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 2010. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In February 2010, Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy to cover their joint mortgage which 
was due to start a few months later. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Even though this was a joint mortgage, the policy only covered Mr C for accident, sickness 
and unemployment. In the event of him making a successful claim it would have paid out the 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. As Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander says the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs C during a telephone call. And from looking 
at the paperwork Ive been given, I think it is more likely that this was the case. 
Santander no longer has a copy of the telephone call recording in which the sale took place, 
which isnt surprising given the sale took place over nine years ago. Santander has however 
provided a copy of its sales script which it says it representative would have used during the 
telephone call. Whilst I dont know exactly what was said during the conversation, I dont 
have any persuasive evidence to make me think the call didnt follow this structure. This 
document prompts the representative to explain that the policy was optional and directs 
them to obtain the consumers consent before setting up the policy. So I think its more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs C would have known that they didnt need to take out the cover.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs C after 
the policy was arranged. It refers to Mr C choosing to take out the cover and refers to the 
direct debit payments that would be taken. If Mr and Mrs C didnt know about this cover or 
hadnt agreed to take out the policy in the telephone call, I think they would have questioned 
this with Santander when they received this documentation or when these payments started 
to be deducted from their bank account.
So based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Santander made it clear the policy 
was optional and that Mr and Mrs C agreed to take it out, knowing they could refuse it if they 
didnt want it.Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if the policy 
was right for them. But it did need to make sure that Mr and Mrs C got the information they 
needed to decide for themselves if the policy was right for them.
Mr and Mrs C have told us that Mr C would have been entitled to full pay at the discretion of 
his employer, if he was too unwell to work. Theyve also told us that Mr C had some savings 
which he could have used to help with his repayments.
Having thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about Mr Cs sick pay, I dont think this 
means they wouldnt have found the PPI a useful thing to have. While I dont doubt that Mr 
Cs employer may have wanted to offer such generous sick pay, circumstances could 
change which might mean that Mr Cs employer was no longer able to offer sick pay on such 
generous terms. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr C would have 
received from his employer and also would have paid out if Mr C was ever made redundant. 
So, I don't think Mr C's sick pay would have meant the PPI he didn't need the PPI.
Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about the savings Mr C held. Again, I 
dont think this would have meant that the PPI wasnt usefuI. In the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have a paid out a benefit for up to 12 months, which would have 
enabled Mr C to use his savings for any other financial commitments which he might have 
had.
So overall, I think Mr and Mrs C could have found the policy useful if they ever fell on hard 
times and I dont think that any better information would have put them off from taking out 
the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman