DRN-3745991
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) handled his claim 
under his buildings and contents insurance following an escape of water.
The policy was in Mr Hs name only.
What happened
Mr H claimed under his home insurance policy, which included home emergency cover, 
following an escape of water from his bathroom. The water came through the floor of the 
upstairs bathroom and damaged the ceiling of the living area immediately below.
RSA accepted Mr Hs claim, but it didnt include cover for the bathroom tap, carpets, or 
ceiling in the open plan living and dining area. Mr H complained to RSA about its decision 
and the time taken to handle his claim. He provided details of his wifes health and disability 
issues, and said the whole matter was causing them distress and inconvenience.
RSA looked into Mr Hs complaint. It explained that the leak had come from a split pipe, so 
the bathroom tap wasn't covered under the policy because the faulty valve fell within the 
general maintenance and wear and tear exclusion. However, RSA agreed that Mr Hs policy 
did provide cover for redecoration of the full ceiling, and accepted that part of his claim.
Although Mr H said the carpet was damaged by the escape of water, RSAs surveyor said 
the whole carpet was damaged due to wear and tear. So, RSA maintained its decision to 
decline this part of the claim.
RSA considered Mr Hs complaint about the delays and the wrong decisions it made for 
parts of the claim. In recognition of the inconvenience caused, RSA offered £300 
compensation.
But Mr H remained unhappy and he complained that RSA hadnt even considered the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him and his disabled wife. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said RSA quoted the terms and 
conditions of the policy to explain why it wouldnt cover the bathroom tap and carpets, which 
she considered fair in the circumstances. She also noted that the ceiling repairs would be 
covered, and that RSA offered a fair sum of £300 for the avoidable delays, confusion and 
inconvenience caused. However, our investigator said there was nothing RSA needed to do 
in respect of inconvenience and distress that Mr Hs wife suffered because of the claim, 
because the policy was only in Mr Hs name.
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I wont 
repeat the detail here. Instead Ill focus on the key issues and explain why Ive reached my 
decision.
For clarity, my decision is in respect of the escape of water which happened in January 2022 
to the final response RSA issued in July 2022.
Bathroom tap
RSA isolated the leak coming from the bathroom pipe under the home emergency cover. 
The cover is there to make sure the leak is stopped, which is what RSA did. RSA told Mr H 
that the policy didnt cover wear and tear, and I note the policy booklet confirms this. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that RSA reasonably declined cover for the faulty tap valve under a 
valid policy exclusion. I wont be asking RSA to do any more in respect of this issue.
Ceiling
Mr Hs home had an open plan living and dining area. Only part of the ceiling was damaged 
by the escape of water. To begin with RSA declined cover for the undamaged part of the 
ceiling because there was a clear split between the two areas of the room. However, after Mr 
H complained it agreed that the policy did provide cover for the full ceiling.
RSA has agreed to redecorate the full ceiling, so Im satisfied that puts this matter right. In 
respect of the delay and inconvenience caused by its initial refusal, Ive considered this in 
my decision about the compensation offered.
Carpets
Mr H provided a photo of his carpet which showed debris from the ceiling and a dirty and/or 
wet mark. He said that was evidence of damage caused by the escape of water. However, 
RSA said its surveyor found the carpet to be in a similar condition all the way through the 
open plan room, so it couldnt have been water damage. Mr H didnt agree and asked RSA 
for evidence. He then pointed out that the report only referenced the upstairs bathroom 
carpet.
I see that RSA asked Mr H to provide evidence of his open plan carpet from before the 
incident so it could consider his complaint fully. I havent seen any evidence that he did so. 
Looking at Mr Hs photo in isolation, it does seem to show carpet damage directly 
underneath the ceiling debris. However, Ive also seen two photos which show the length of 
the open plan room and give a better view of the whole carpet. The carpet runs from the 
kitchen doorway, through the dining area and the living area. Another door leads into the 
dining area from the side. The carpet is clearly dirty and worn in the high-traffic areas  that 
is, from one doorway to another, and in pathways around the furniture to the windows. 
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied that RSAs conclusion that the carpet damage was pre-
existing is reasonable. I see no reason to ask RSA to include the carpet in the claim.
Compensation
RSA offered £300 compensation in recognition of the avoidable delays, inconvenience, and 
incorrect decisions made regarding the ceiling. Theres no dispute about why compensation is warranted, but Mr H says its not enough. Ive 
thought carefully about his circumstances and the concern he mustve had about his wife. I 
can only reasonably ask RSA to compensate for the additional and avoidable inconvenience 
caused as a result of its handling of the claim. The fact that Mr Hs home was damaged by 
the escape of water wouldve always caused some upheaval. And as Ive decided that it was 
reasonable for RSA to decline cover for the tap and the carpet, I cant consider that in my 
assessment of the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Overall, Im satisfied that RSAs offer was fair and in line with what I wouldve required had it 
not already made the offer. I wont be asking RSA to increase the compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman