DRN-2833085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with how Pukka Insure Ltd investigated and handled a claim 
made against Mrs Cs motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Pukka includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. She 
found that Pukka had made numerous attempts to contact Mrs C and didnt find that Pukka 
had done anything wrong by not getting a third-party witness statement sooner than they did. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. Rather than repeat what is 
already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for 
reaching the outcome I have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Mr and Mrs C have recently referred to other actions of Pukka theyre unhappy with, but my 
decision concerns the complaint they brought to our service which Pukka responded to in 
the final response letter dated 1 October 2020. Should Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy with 
other aspects of Pukkas actions after that date, they have the option of making a new 
complaint to Pukka. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs C that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Pukka instructed their agents to obtain a full and detailed statement from Mrs C. Mr 
and Mrs C are unhappy with delays they say were caused by Pukka when dealing 
with and investigating the claim. In particular, Mr and Mrs C say Pukka were too slow 
to get a third-party witness statement. Pukka say any delays were the result of Mrs C 
not cooperating with them. 
The evidence shows Mr C spoke to Pukka on 10 March 2020 and explained that 
Mrs C would require a translator and any communication should go through him. The 
adviser explained that shed pass the message on but that Mrs C was the person 
they needed to speak to. 
Ive seen a copy of an email dated 11 March 2020 in which Pukka said: 
We have arranged for [agent] to contact you to take a statement from your 
wife, we are advised that [agent] have been advised they could not speak to 
your wife. We urgently need them to take a statement from your wife. We are 
happy for you to be present at the meeting. 
Mr C responded on 12 March 2020 stating:
We are more than happy to assist in this matter. Please confirm the 
present position in respect any claim brought against my wife. 
I look forward to hearing from you.
So Im satisfied that Mrs C was made aware that Pukka needed to speak with her 
and the email from Mr and Mrs C suggests they were willing to engage with Pukka. 
But Ive then found what followed was a series of communication attempts by Pukka 
which werent responded to by Mr and Mrs C. For example, voicemail messages 
were left on 17, 18 and 19 March 2020 but not returned by Mrs C. Further voicemails 
were left on 26 and 27 March followed by an email asking Mrs C to make contact. I 
find that initially Pukka made a reasonable effort to get in touch with Mrs C and didnt 
cause unnecessary delays.
Mr C has said that a Pukka representative attempted to interview Mrs C at home 
early in the claim process, but he explained that shed need a translator. Ive found 
no strong supporting evidence that this meeting at Mr and Mrs Cs home took place. 
Instead, Ive found that Pukka did intend to interview Mrs C at home, but the COVID-
19 restrictions put in place by the government meant they were unable to carry this 
out shortly after the claim was first made. It seems that the initial communication was 
done via telephone and email. 
In August 2020 Mr C contacted Pukka by telephone. Ive listened to a copy of that 
call recording. Mr C told Pukka that Mrs C wouldnt be providing a statement until the 
independent witness statement was provided to them. Mr C provided contact details 
for the independent witness. Pukka made contact with the witness and obtained a 
statement shortly afterwards, followed by a formal statement in September 2020.
A large part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about what they perceive to be a delay by 
Pukka in obtaining an independent witness statement. But I find it reasonable        
that Pukka would not seek to gather third party evidence such as statement until after 
first speaking to Mrs C. 
This is normally so the insurer can get a fair understanding of the circumstances of 
the incident being claimed for and then decide what further evidence was needed 
before either settling or disputing the claim. For example, it couldve been the case 
that after speaking to Mrs C they felt they didnt need to get the independent witness 
statement. The independent witness statement was taken shortly after the call on 18 August 
2020. Ive kept in mind that this was after a lengthy period when Mrs C wasnt 
engaging with Pukka in relation to providing her own statement. 
Although Mr and Mrs C feel that Pukka shouldve got the third-party witness 
statement much sooner, I dont find that Pukka did anything wrong. Had Mr and 
Mrs C engaged with Pukka and their attempts to contact them then its a possibility 
that Pukka may have sought to get the third-party witness statement sooner than 
they did. 
I also dont find it unfair or unusual that Pukka didnt share the witness statement with 
Mr and Mrs C before Mrs C provided her own statement. Its reasonable to assume 
that this was to help ensure that Mrs C had an opportunity to give her own account of 
the incident to the best of her knowledge - without her recollections being influenced 
by the independent witnesses version of events.  
This policy - as do almost all insurance policies, required the policy holders to 
co-operate with Pukka in the event of a claim. 
The relevant term is:
Your duties
We will only provide the cover described in this insurance policy if:
you provide us with co-operation and assistance throughout the duration 
of this policy, for example if we request information or documentation from 
you when you purchase cover, make changes, submit a claim or, where 
applicable, renew your insurance with us;
Its an insurers own decision when deciding how to investigate and handle a claim 
about what evidence to gather. 
The role of our service when deciding this complaint is to decide whether Pukka have 
investigated the claim in-line with the policy terms  fairly, reasonably and without undue 
delays. Based on the complaint Ive considered, I find that they have. 
In summary, I dont find that Pukka have acted unreasonably with their requests for 
information from Mr and Mrs C or caused avoidable delays. Although Mr and Mrs C may 
have been quoted a higher premium with a different insurer whilst this claim was ongoing, I 
dont find that any delay in investigating the claim was because of Pukkas actions and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve their dispute with Pukka  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'SheaOmbudsman