DRN-3878078
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical insurance plan. 
Ms J is assisting Mr C in bringing his complaint. Mrs L has provided comments. For ease of 
reference, Ill mostly refer to Mr C and will ascribe Ms J and Mrs Ls comments to him.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr C had private medical insurance with Vitality and its 
predecessor for many years. His plan renews in February each year.  
In June 2021, Mr C was admitted to hospital and subsequently suffered a dural 
arteriovenous fistulas  - an abnormal connection between an artery and a vein in the 
brain - which required emergency surgery. In the complaint form, Mr C said that his wife, 
Mrs C, contacted Vitality after he was taken ill and was told that a claim adjuster would 
contact her but no one from Vitality contacted her. 
On 21 July 2021 and 20 September 2021, Mr Cs son contacted Vitality on Mr Cs behalf. 
What was said in those phone calls is in dispute. Ill refer to that in more detail below. 
Mr C was discharged from hospital on 17 September 2021 and required neuro 
rehabilitation. 
In October and November 2021, Vitality wrote to Mr C about unpaid premiums. Vitality 
received an enduring power of attorney for Mr C. In processing that, it mistakenly 
recorded that Mr C had died and cancelled Mr Cs plan in error. I understand that it sent 
Mr Cs family a letter of condolence. 
In January 2022, Vitality declined Mr Cs claim for rehabilitation. It said that the plan 
didnt cover what happened here as it was more than two months after Mr Cs diagnosis. 
Vitality apologised for its error in cancelling the plan and sending a letter of condolence.  
It offered to write off some of the unpaid premiums and send flowers by way of an 
apology. Vitality maintained its position about Mr Cs claim for rehabilitation expenses. 
Mr C pursued his complaint. The outstanding premiums werent paid, and Mr Cs plan 
remains cancelled.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Vitality had 
refused to register Mr Cs claim. The investigator said that Vitality declined Mr Cs claim 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. He said that Vitality cancelled 
Mr Cs plan and sent his family a letter of condolence in error. The investigator noted that 
Vitality apologised for that and sent flowers to Mr Cs family. He also noted that Vitality 
offered to write off outstanding premiums but that wasnt acceptable to Mr C. The 
investigator thought that Vitality should pay Mr C compensation of £250 in relation to 
recording, incorrectly, that he had passed away and for cancelling his plan.
Initially, Vitality didnt agree with the investigator. It said that it had offered to write off 
some of the unpaid premiums and that the flowers were the most appropriate form of 
compensation in this case. It transpired that Vitality had not in fact sent Mr Cs family the 
flowers. Vitality agreed to pay the compensation recommended by the investigator. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and said, in summary: 
Vitalitys notes dont accurately record the relevant conversations. Its surprising 
that recordings of the phone calls arent available. When his son phoned Vitality 
on 21 July 2021, he didnt say that he didnt want to log a claim. 
 His son contacted Vitality again on 20  September 2021, when Mr C was ready 
for rehabilitation, and its not accepted that Vitalitys records of that phone call 
are accurate. His son didnt say he would call back when he had more 
information but did ask Vitality if there were any other services available for     
him. 
The criteria for rehabilitation cover is conflicting as the patient has to be stable 
and treatment has to begin within two months. Vitality misled his son during the 
phone call on 21 July 2021, as it didnt draw his attention to the fact that if it took 
Mr C longer than two months to become stable, he couldnt claim. 
They didnt stop paying the premium. There was a lengthy process with the bank 
to register an enduring power of attorney which meant that the premium 
payment wasnt made. 
Vitality acted unreasonably in declining the claim. Vitality didnt tell his relatives 
the extent of the plan and its limitations. Its questionable whether the strict 
requirements of the plan frustrate a claim, as a patient with a brain injury may 
not be stable in two months.
Vitalitys error led to cancellation of the plan.
The compensation recommended by the investigator isnt sufficient.
His family didnt receive flowers or a letter of apology.
Vitality could put things right by paying his claim for 21 days rehabilitation and 
paying compensation for distress and upset caused to Mrs C. 
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change his view. As there was 
no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plan, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
CORE COVER  REHABILITATION
WHATS COVERED
This benefit provides you with up to 21 days of rehabilitation treatment following a stroke 
or serious brain injury.
The treatment must:
immediately follow a period of in-patient treatment
start no more than two months after initial diagnosis or date of injury
WHATS NOT COVERED
treatment not undertaken in a rehabilitation unit at a recognised rehabilitation facility
treatment given or arranged by a consultant not recognised by us.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
[]
4.1 WHAT WE EXPECT FROM YOU
It is your responsibility to:
ensure that all premiums are paid when due []
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im upholding Mr Cs 
claim in part. Ill explain why:    
the date of the claim
Theres a dispute about when Mr C first made a claim against his plan for 
rehabilitation. In the complaint form, Mr C said that Mrs C first contacted Vitality and  
wasnt contacted by a claim adjuster, as promised. Vitality say that the first contact it 
had was on 21 July 2021 from Mr Cs son who said that he wasnt aware of Mr Cs 
medical condition and didnt want to log a claim. Mr C disputes that. Vitality says that 
the next contact was from Mr Cs son on 20 September 2021, when he said that hed 
call back when he had more information. Mr C disputes that and says that his son 
asked Vitality if there were any other services available for him. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I need to 
consider whats most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.  
Vitality hasnt retained recordings of the relevant phone calls. Thats not unusual. It  
isnt obliged to record phone calls or retain indefinitely any recordings it made. Vitality 
has produced its contemporaneous notes of the phone calls. 
Vitality has no record of a call by Mrs C. I dont think I can safely conclude that Mrs C 
contacted Vitality about Mr Cs claim in June or July 2021. I think it would be unusual 
for Vitality to say that it would arrange for a claim adjuster to contact Mrs C. The 
more unusual an event, the more evidence is required to support the recollection. 
On balance, I accept Vitalitys notes as an accurate record of Mr Cs sons calls on   
21 July 2021 and 20 September 2021. The notes were contemporaneous. I think that they are likely to be more reliable than Mr Cs relatives recollections some 
considerable time later. I think that Mr C first made a claim for rehabilitation on         
20 September 2021. In reaching that view, Ive noted that Vitality sent out a form for 
NHS to private transfers after the conversation with Mr Cs son on                            
20 September 2021.
Vitalitys decision to decline Mr Cs claim
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the plan document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the plan. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think that Vitality didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Cs claim. The terms of the plan provide that the rehabilitation treatment 
claimed for must start no more than two months after initial diagnosis. Mr C received 
a diagnosis in June 2021. Ive found above that he first made a claim on                  
20 September 2021, more than two months after the diagnosis. So, the rehabilitation 
treatment couldnt start within two months of the diagnosis, as required by the plan. 
Mr C says that Vitality misled his son during the phone call on 21 July 2021, as it 
didnt draw his attention to the fact that if it took Mr C longer than two months to 
become stable, he couldnt claim. In the particular circumstances here, I dont think 
that Vitality was obliged to explain the limitations of the cover for rehabilitation 
treatment at that stage. Vitalitys notes of the phone call of 21 July 2021 show that  
Mr Cs son wasnt aware of Mr Cs medical condition. Vitality explained that Mr Cs 
medical condition would need to be stable. Mr Cs son said hed discuss the matter 
with family and revert to Vitality if he wished to pursue a claim. I dont think that 
Vitality needed to do any more at that stage.  
I think that Vitality was entitled to rely on the terms of the plan and decline Mr Cs 
claim. Theres no basis on which I can fairly direct Vitality to accept Mr Cs claim for 
rehabilitation costs. 
the cancellation of Mr Cs plan
Its common ground that Vitality made errors in recording that Mr C had died, 
cancelling the plan, and sending a letter of condolence to Mr Cs family. That caused 
Mr C distress and inconvenience. Vitality has explained how that happened and 
offered to write off some unpaid premiums. Its since agreed to pay Mr C 
compensation of £250. I think thats fair and reasonable. 
In reaching that view, Ive taken into account that I can only award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to Mr C, as hes the plan member. And whilst Vitalitys 
cancellation of the plan caused some initial distress and inconvenience, it coincided 
with non-payment of the premium due to issues Mr Cs attorney had with Mr Cs 
bank. Under the terms of the plan, its for Mr C to ensure that all premiums are paid 
when due. I think Vitality was entitled to ask for missed premiums. Theres no basis 
on which I could fairly direct Vitality to reinstate Mr Cs plan.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Vitality should now pay Mr C compensation of £250 in relation to 
his distress and inconvenience.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. Vitality Health Limited should now 
pay the compensation Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman