DRN-2060003
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the way Society of Lloyds (SOL) handled a subsidence claim under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2018 Ms D made a claim to SOL after discovering cracks in an extension at the 
back of her property. SOL investigated the damage. It found that the property was suffering 
from subsidence due to the collapse of two drains under Ms Ds patio.
SOL arranged for some patio slabs to be taken up and the drains to be repaired.
In January 2019 Ms D complained to SOL that the patio slabs hadnt been laid correctly, as 
water was pooling on the patio. Its contractor re-laid the patio slabs.
In February 2019 its contractor re-attended as one of the drains was blocked with cement. 
In July the contractor went back to the property again as two of the patio slabs had been 
laid the wrong way and the pointing was cracking. Ms D said that water was still pooling on 
the patio.
Another contractor repaired the internal cracks. Ms D says in doing so, they tore her vinyl 
floor covering.
Ms D complained to SOL. It said it wasnt responsible for the problems with the patio as it 
had only taken up a few patio slabs. It offered Ms D £344 to have the patio repaired and 
£99 to replace the torn vinyl floor covering. Ms D didnt think that was enough and she 
wanted SOLs contractor to make good their poor workmanship. SOL said it would only 
relay the original eight paving slabs it had taken up to access the drains, or pay the cash 
equivalent to Ms D. 
As Ms D still wasnt happy, she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld 
it. She thought SOL should repair the entire patio and replace the damaged flooring. She 
also recommended it pay Ms D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused 
her.
As SOL didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that some of the patio slabs taken up by SOLs drainage 
contractor werent put back properly. SOL has agreed to put that right. But Ms D thinks SOL 
should re-lay the entire patio. SOL refused to work on slabs that hadnt been disturbed 
during the repair works. I need to decide whether that was fair and reasonable. I dont think it 
was. Ill explain why.
Some of the patio slabs need to be re-laid due to the poor workmanship of SOLs contractor. 
Thats clearly SOLs responsibility.
The only expert opinion Ive seen as to why the rest of the patio is damaged has come from 
SOLs contractor. It said:
"The cause of movement to the patio is thought to be due to voids/saturation of the ground 
caused by the previous drain defects. Following repairs the ground has begun to dry out 
and the slabs have settled at a lower level than those sitting on undisturbed ground."
That suggests to me that the patio is suffering from subsidence. Ms Ds policy covers 
damage to a patio caused by subsidence if her home were damaged at the same time and 
by the same cause. Her home did suffer from subsidence damage caused by the same drain 
defects. So I think that test is satisfied. Since her patio is most likely suffering from 
subsidence damage and she has cover under her policy for that, I dont think SOL treated 
her fairly in saying that it wouldnt repair the whole of the patio. To put things right I think it 
should carry out a lasting and effective repair of subsidence damage to the entire patio.
With regard to the damaged flooring, I can see that SOL offered Ms D the cost of replacing 
this. Its not clear to me that the amount offered also takes into account moving and putting 
back any white goods, plinths etc which might need moving. In order to treat Ms D fairly I 
think SOL should reassess this part of the claim and check that the settlement is sufficient to 
cover a lasting repair of the damaged flooring.
Lastly Ms D has suffered the trouble and upset of poor workmanship and SOL unfairly 
refusing to repair the whole of her patio. Taking into account the impact that has had on her I 
think its right that SOL should pay her £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to:
carry out a lasting and effective repair of subsidence damage to the entire patio;
reassess the settlement for the damaged flooring to ensure that the settlement is 
sufficient to cover a lasting repair;
pay Ms D £200 in compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman