DRN-4305985
The complaint
Mr G complains that RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Financial Services 
has unfairly imposed end of contract charges for the condition of a car when it was handed 
back. He also says that RCI didnt handle his complaint in a timely or professional manner 
causing him unnecessary distress.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr G entered into a three-year leasing agreement for a new car. At the 
end of the agreement Mr G arranged with RCI for the car to be inspected and then collected. 
The assessor prepared a report and took photos of any damage they found.
Mr G says the assessor who attended warned him to challenge any damage charges raised 
by RCI as they were always excessive. Mr G then received an invoice for damages 
amounting to £501. Mr G says he found the charges excessive in that the damage to the car 
would be what was expected taking into account its age and mileage and was minor only in 
nature. However, he said he accepted the damage recorded to the two alloy wheels. He also 
said that he thought the costs imposed for the damage was excessive.
Mr G contacted RCI to complain about the end of contract charges. He says the agent 
informed him that he couldnt complain because these charges were in line with the 
contracts terms and conditions. However, after being challenged by Mr G, the agent later 
did open a complaint for him.
Mr G says he was unhappy at the length of time it took RCI to deal with his complaint which 
was several weeks and that there were delays in RCI responding to him. RCI issued a final 
decision letter to Mr G in March 2023 and said that the charges were supported by 
photographic evidence and that the car had actually made a loss when sold. RCI said that all 
the charges were in line with the terms and conditions of the hire agreement but that it 
would, as a gesture of goodwill, reduce the amount due by £147.74 leaving £353.26 to be 
paid.
Mr G was unhappy at RCIs response as he said it hadnt responded to the issues he had 
raised in respect of the assessors comments, that the agent had said he couldnt make a 
complaint and that excessive costs had been applied for the damage. He was also unhappy 
at how long it had taken for his complaint to be considered.
Mr G made a complaint to this service about RCIs handling of the end of contract charges. 
RCI said that it had followed its dispute process which included a review of the damage and 
a gesture of goodwill made. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He said that although 
he appreciated Mr G was very unhappy about the service RCI had provided him in respect of 
the end of contract charges for the damage found, he was satisfied that the charges had in 
themselves been fair. Our investigator said that the evidence provided showed that the 
damage found on the vehicle when it had been inspected was more than reasonable wear 
and tear and, in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines, was chargeable. He said that although he accepted the service 
provided by RCI would have caused Mr G frustration, this wouldnt impact on the charges 
being owed by him and hadnt caused Mr G any financial loss. Our investigator said he was 
therefore not persuaded that RCI should do more than it had as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G disagreed with out investigators view. He said that the charges imposed by RCI for the 
damage were excessive, that its service had been appalling and it should be held to 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable Ive looked at the evidence that has been provided 
together with the relevant law and regulations, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and industry practices. Ive seen Mr G has raised that this service should have obtained 
copies of the calls between himself and RCI, but I dont think that is necessary and I will 
explain why below when looking at the issues raised by Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Gs hire agreement is a regulated agreement and as such this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. Mr G entered into a hire agreement for a new car and the 
agreement was for three years. Under the terms and conditions of this contract Mr G was 
liable for the condition of the car and RCI would be able to charge him for any damage that 
was found on its return that would be considered beyond fair wear and tear.
The car was assessed at the end of the agreement in line with the hand back process. Mr G 
says that the assessor advised him to contest any charges with a warning that RCI would 
apply excessive costs for any damage found. Although Mr G raised this comment with RCI, 
he says it hasnt offered any response to it. 
I dont know what was said by the assessor to Mr G at the time the car was inspected and 
the comments hes reported dont appear to be very professional. I also dont know what 
motive the assessor may have had when saying what is reported. However, I dont think I 
can reasonably hold RCI responsible if the assessor had expressed this view and I also 
dont think its reasonable for me to give such a comment any weight. Instead, I will look at 
the other evidence thats been provided to decide whether RCI has acted fairly or unfairly in 
regard to any damage that was recorded in the assessment report given on the car.
Mr G says, given the cars use and age, that wear and tear should be reasonably expected 
and I dont disagree with that. The car wouldnt be expected, after three years of being 
driven, to be in the same condition as new. When assessing whether damage on the car is 
fair wear and tear or chargeable then referral to the BVRLA guidelines is reasonable. These 
guidelines set out what would be acceptable as usual wear and tear at the end of the first 
contract when the car had been supplied as new which is the situation for Mr Gs car. These 
guidelines are also accepted as setting the industry standard for what is and isnt fair wear 
and tear. I will be considering their guidance when looking at the damage recorded on Mr 
Gs car.
Looking at the assessors report, I can see that photos of the damage found on the car are 
included together with the cost that will be charged in respect of each area of damage. There 
were eight areas of damage noted in total. I understand Mr G isnt disputing the condition of 
the two alloy wheels which have been reported as scuffed with spoke damage. The photos 
of these two wheels do confirm what is recorded. The BVRLA guidelines state that Any 
damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the wheel/alloy is not acceptable. There must be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels/wheel hubs. Im satisfied that the 
evidence supports that the damage to the alloys is chargeable.
There are dents recorded on the left front door, the C post left and right (there is also minor 
paint damage to the left), the right quarter panel and the right B post (there is also minor 
paint damage noted). There are also a number of scuff marks to the rear bumper.
The BVRLA guidelines set out that Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable 
provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. They 
also state that Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not 
showing are acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface 
scratches on one panel is acceptable.
The photos show that the dents in the door, C posts and B post are in excess of 15mm (a 
ruler is shown placed by these dents) and so I am satisfied this damage is chargeable. The 
dent to the quarter panel is under 15mm and so no charge has been made for that. In 
respect of the bumper, there are a number of scratches clearly visible and ranging between 
26 and 100mm. Again, Im satisfied this damage is chargeable.
I therefore dont agree with Mr G that the cars condition was as would reasonably be 
expected and I accept from the evidence provided that there was damage noted that was 
beyond fair wear and tear. This means the damage was chargeable where a charge had 
been imposed by RCI and Mr G was liable for that.
Mr G has said that the charges incurred were excessive for the actual damage. It isnt my 
role to comment on business decisions such as the level of charges imposed for damage 
found to a vehicle on return unless these were excessive and unfair. Looking at these 
particular charges, £85 for the damage to each of the alloys, £85 for the damage to the door, 
£90 for the damage to the bumper and £52 for the damage to the C posts and D post 
respectively, I cant reasonably say they are significantly more expensive than others Ive 
seen imposed for similar damage by different businesses. And although I appreciate this will 
be of disappointment to Mr G, I disagree they are excessive and unreasonable. 
Mr G raised with RCI that the car was worth more given the current market conditions and 
that this had also led to the charges being unfair as to the amount. However, RCI says it 
made a loss on the car when it was sold. I dont know the amount the car fetched but I think 
its more likely than not that what RCI has reported is correct. I dont think that the used 
value of the car meant the charges imposed by RCI were therefore excessive in the 
circumstances. 
Ive seen that Mr G was originally invoiced a total end of contract damages charge of £501. 
RCI has subsequently reviewed that following Mr Gs complaint and, as a gesture of 
goodwill, removed £147.77 from the invoice. Mr G says this is an admission by RCI that it 
had wrongly imposed the amount that it had but I disagree with that view. I think this is 
simply RCI revieing Mr Gs account and acting in goodwill and I think this is a fair gesture 
towards him.
Mr G has been clear that he found the customer service provided by RCI to have been of a 
poor standard. He has raised the length of time it took for him to receive responses and that 
RCI didnt provide answers to all of the issues he raised with it. However, a business 
customer service in respect of dealing with a complaint made by a consumer isnt always a 
regulated activity and so may not be something thats within this services remit to look at. 
And although the complaint was about the end of contract charges which RCI had invoiced 
Mr G, I cant say its handling of that complaint hasnt resulted in any financial detriment for 
him. Thats because the charges were fairly imposed by RCI in respect of the condition of the vehicle when Mr G returned it, and Mr G was liable for them.
I appreciate Mr G is unhappy the agent told him when he first made contact with RCI that he 
couldnt complain, but a complaint was opened on his behalf which resulted in the gesture of 
goodwill being made. So, I although I accept that would have been frustrating for Mr G, he 
was able to pursue his complaint. 
I also appreciate that Mr G says that he suffered undue delays and that communication with 
RCI was poor while it dealt with his complaint, but I think its reasonable to consider those as 
being issues of customer service. And even if RCIs communication with Mr G caused 
confusion for him (and I make no finding in respect of that) then the gesture of goodwill is 
line with what I would be considering as compensation. Im not therefore going to ask RCI to 
increase the amount deducted from the end of contract charges.
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman