DRN-2289598
The complaint
Mr G complains that Amtrust Europe Limited cancelled his self-build warranty after he sold 
his property.
What happened
Mr G had a ten year self-build warranty that was underwritten by Amtrust. He moved into the 
property once it was built in 2016. After this Amtrust inspected the property a number of 
times before finally issuing a certificate of adequacy in 2019.
Later in 2019 Mr G sold the property. After he had moved out the new owners contacted him 
to say they hadnt been able to transfer the warranty into their names as Amtrust had told 
them the warranty had been cancelled. 
Mr G contacted Amtrust and it explained that it had cancelled the warranty as Mr G had sold 
the property within 12 months of the policy inception date, and this was a condition in the 
policy. Mr G disputed this, as he said the warranty lasted from ten years, starting in 2016. He 
made a complaint.
Amtrust didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy started when it issued the certificate of 
insurance. This was at the same time it issued the certificate of adequacy - when the build 
was signed off in 2019. As the property was sold later that year, this was within 12 months of 
the inception of the policy, so Mr G had breached the policy condition. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said when the certificate of insurance was issued in 2019, 
it said the policy expired in 2026. As its a ten year warranty this would reasonably mean the 
policy began in 2016. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
it was reasonable for Mr G to believe the policy incepted in 2016, as the certificate of 
insurance confirmed the policy ended in 2026 and it was a ten year warranty. He therefore 
thought Amtrust should reinstate Mr Gs policy and transfer it to the new owners. He also 
thought it should pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him. 
Mr G accepted our investigators findings. However Amtrust didnt agree. It said that the 
policy cover couldnt have started in 2016 as it was still receiving technical information about 
the build after this. It said the policy couldnt be reinstated as a condition had been breached. 
It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has said it cancelled Mr Gs warranty as he breached a policy condition. In the 
application for the self build it states as follows:
Please note that the Self Build scheme is for individuals planning to reside in the property 
for the foreseeable future and if the property is sold within the first 12 months following the 
inception date of the policy it will be cancelled
So I can see that this is a condition of the policy. And as Mr G signed this paperwork, he 
would have been aware of it.
However Mr G says he had thought the inception of the policy had been when he moved into 
it in 2016. So while he doesnt dispute he was aware of the term, he hadnt realised he was 
breaching it as he thought he was outside of the required 12 months.
Amtrust said the policy incepts when the building work is signed off and a certificate of 
adequacy is issued. It says that as the certificate of insurance isnt issued until this date, 
then there is no insurance cover before then.
So there is no dispute about the policy condition, just about when the policy incepted. I need 
to decide if Amtrust acted fairly by applying the policy condition, based on an inception date 
in 2019.
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions and the policy document. There are many 
references to the certificate of insurance, but none of the documents state explicitly when the 
policy is considered to have incepted. But its not unreasonable that the policy would incept 
when the build is signed off and the certificate of insurance is issued. However I dont agree 
that this was made clear to Mr G.
When the certificate of insurance was issued, the covering email, stated as follows:
It is providing the remaining balance of 10 years cover from the date you first occupied the 
property' 19.12.16, as advised by our surveyor.
This implies there is a remaining balance because the policy has already started. Further 
the certificate itself states the cover start date as 12/09/2019 and the cover end date as 
19/12/2026. While I appreciate the start date is the date the certificate was issued, I dont 
agree that its clear that is the date of the inception of the policy. 
All documentation is clear that the warranty provides cover for ten years. For example, the 
policy document begins by stating:
the LABC Self Build Warranty provides you with the comfort that particular types of 
problems which may occur in the first ten years after your Home is built will be corrected.
As the warranty end date is stated as 2026, and the warranty is for ten years, I think it is 
reasonable that Mr G considered the start date of the policy was when he moved in, in 
December 2016  ten years before the end date. If the start date of the policy was to be 
taken as September 2019, then I think its reasonable to expect that the end date would be 
ten years after that  in 2029.
So I dont think it was made clear to Mr G that the inception date of his policy was 
considered to be the date the certificate was issued in 2019, as the ten year warranty ended 
in 2026. As Amtrust issued the certificate of insurance, I dont think it did enough to make it 
clear to Mr G that the inception date was in 2019 and therefore the sale condition would 
apply from this date. So I dont think it acted fairly when cancelling the warranty based on 
this condition. In order to decide what should be done to put things right, Ive considered what Mr G would 
have done if it had been made clear to him that the policy inception date was in 2019. He 
has said he was aware of the policy condition that means the house couldnt be sold within 
12 months of this date. And, when selling a new property, it is usually a condition of a 
mortgage that the house has a warranty in place. So I think its reasonable to say that if Mr G 
knew he would have been in breach of this condition, he either wouldnt have sold the house 
at that time, or would have sought to arrange another warranty so that the sale would go 
through without problem. 
With this in mind I agree with our investigator that in order to put Mr G back in the position he 
would have been in if the information had been clearer, I will require Amtrust to reinstate the 
warranty with an end date of 19 December 2026, as described in the original documentation 
and transfer the policy to the new home owners. 
Mr G only found out about the cancellation when the new owners tried to change the 
warranty name. And, as this violates their mortgage conditions, they have since threatened 
to take him to court. This would have been very distressing for Mr G and it would have been 
inconvenient for him to have to contact Amtrust to try and rectify the matter. For these 
reasons I also agree with our investigator that it should pay Mr G £100 compensation to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to 
reinstate Mr Gs ten year warranty with an end date of 19 December 2026 and transfer it 
into the names of the new home owners.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman