DRN-3445230
The complaint
Mr G complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under his home emergency policy, 
about how they dealt with a problem with his heating system.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr G contacted Aviva as he had a problem with radiators at his property 
not heating up. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit to assess the problem. As part of the 
visit, the engineer checked the boiler and said it was working normally (as was the pump). 
He thought the reason the radiators werent heating up was sediment in the heating system. 
To check this, he took a water sample from the system to be tested. A few days later, as he 
hadnt heard back, Mr G contacted Aviva. They sent him a report advising a heating system 
flush  although they couldnt guarantee this would fix the problem.
Concerned at potentially having to pay for a system flush that might not fix the problem, 
Mr G contacted an engineer he knew, who diagnosed the problem as relating to a zone 
valve (part of the heating system). But when Mr G contacted Aviva to tell them, they 
maintained their position that sediment was the issue. Mr G then arranged for the zone valve 
to be replaced, after which the radiators heated up normally.
Unhappy at Aviva not being able to diagnose the problem, or fix it, Mr G complained. He was 
also unhappy hed had to chase Aviva for the results of the water sample test and the 
proposed flush wouldnt have fixed the issue. Nor  having discussed the results of the test 
with his engineer  did the results indicate the need for a flush. He was also unhappy that 
Aviva had only provided two small heaters when the radiators werent heating up properly.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said theyd provided the results 
of the water sample test within the five days allowed under their internal process. They also 
referred to an earlier response, in which they said, having reviewed the water sample test 
report, their own engineers report and the report from Mr Gs engineer, they didnt think the 
issue was with the zone valve (as if there had been, none of the radiators would have been 
working). They also said because the water sample test identified sediment in the heating 
system, theyd recommended a system flush as remedial (maintenance) work, and as such 
(under the policy terms and conditions) they wouldnt have carried out any further repairs, or 
fitted parts, until the flush was carried out.
Unhappy at Avivas response, Mr G complained to this service. The main point of his 
complaint was Aviva hadnt diagnosed the cause of the problem with his radiators and had 
recommended a system flush that wouldnt have fixed it. He said hed had to pay a £50 
excess for the visit by Avivas engineer, as well as £150 to his own engineer (and £38 for the 
replacement heater valve part). Hed also been inconvenienced by his house being cold. He 
wanted Aviva to refund his last 12 months policy premiums (£266), the £50 excess, the £150 
paid to his own engineer, and the £38 for the replacement part.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva acted reasonably 
overall. He thought it reasonable Aviva recommended a system flush (and as a 
maintenance issue it wouldnt have been covered under the policy). And the policy 
conditions meant Aviva wouldnt have replaced the valve (had they diagnosed it), until 
the flush had been carried out. The investigator also thought the five days taken for 
the test of the water sample wasnt unreasonable. The investigator also thought the 
provision of two portable heaters was reasonable, as a temporary measure, given the 
issue only affected part of the property
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing he raised several points. First, it wasnt the case 
only some radiators werent heating up  it was all of them. So, two portable heaters 
werent sufficient for the size of property. Second, his engineer diagnosed and fixed 
the issue, which he said showed a system flush wasnt necessary. Third, the Aviva 
engineer didnt diagnose the problem with the heater valve, when he should have 
done. Fourth, heating systems of the type in his property tended to have a degree of 
sediment, and his engineer told him it was unlikely to have been the cause of the 
problem. And Aviva couldnt guarantee a system flush wouldve fixed the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mr G.
Taking the issues in Mr Gs complaint in order, Ive first considered the Aviva engineers visit 
and the recommended system flush. Mr G (based on his engineers opinion) thought that 
wouldnt have fixed the problem. Aviva say they recommended a system flush based on the 
results of the water sample test theyd carried out.
 
Looking at Avivas case notes, when their engineer visited, they records issues with potential 
blockage and sludge detected and he recommended a system flush. Given the symptoms 
and presence of sludge I dont think that was unreasonable. The results of the water sample 
test also indicate higher levels of certain elements and corrosion, together with the risk of 
failure due to debris. The report recommends a system flush, which is consistent with the 
engineers recommendation. Its also consistent with the type of Mr Gs heating system being 
one that can be affected by these issues (as Mr G acknowledges). So, I dont think Aviva 
acted unreasonably in recommending a system flush. 
Having made the recommendation, the terms and conditions of the policy provide that, 
where maintenance work (which would include system flushes) is required, cover isnt 
provided for repairs to the affected part of the system (in this case the heating system). 
Given this condition, Aviva wouldnt have been obliged to replace the zone valve until the 
recommended system flush had taken place (even if the zone valve issue had been 
diagnosed subsequently). As this is consistent with the policy terms and conditions, I dont 
think thats unreasonable.
Ive next considered Mr Gs concern that Avivas engineer didnt diagnose the issue with the 
zone valve, whereas his engineer did. Ive considered this point carefully, together with the 
case notes and reports from both Avivas and Mr Gs engineer. It seems the replacement of 
the valve by Mr Gs engineer led to the radiators heating up normally. Information supplied 
by Avivas engineer when considering Mr Gs complaint includes a comment that The zone 
valve is the first thing we would check. However, the notes of the visit dont explicitly state 
this was done. Had it been, its unclear to me why the issue with the valve wouldnt have 
been picked up (as it was subsequently by Mr Gs engineer). While Avivas engineer states that a zone valve problem would have meant none of the radiators would have worked (as 
opposed to some of them) this doesnt explain why replacement of part of the valve led to 
the radiators working normally (as Mr G has stated was the case).
Taking all these points into account, I think that had Avivas engineer checked the valve  as 
the comment above suggests should have been done  the issue could have been picked 
up. However, the policy terms and conditions above with respect to Aviva not being obliged 
to replace the zone valve until the recommended system flush had taken place, would mean 
Aviva wouldnt be responsible for the replacement, until the flush had been carried out 
(which it wasnt). In addition, the policy terms and conditions include a General Exclusions 
section that includes the following exclusion:
i) The costs of any work carried out by you or persons not authorised by us 
[Aviva] in advance
Taking account of these factors, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to pay for the cost of Mr G 
engaging his own engineer and the replacement valve.
On the other aspects of Mr Gs complaint, regarding the provision of portable heaters, Mr G 
says this wasnt adequate given the size of his property and the fact that none of the 
radiators were working. However, this isnt consistent with Avivas engineers report which 
states: Found radiators downstairs not getting hot, upstairs warm only. Given what the 
engineer had reported, while I appreciate the situation would have been difficult for Mr G, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to have provided two portable heaters based on the 
information they had.
Given my conclusions, I dont think there are grounds for asking Aviva to take any further 
action. Mr G also asked for the return of his annual premiums, but as I think Aviva havent 
acted unreasonably, Im not going to ask them to do that. On the issue of the £50 excess 
Mr G had to pay for the engineers visit, the excess is clearly set out in the policy terms and 
conditions, and as such would have been payable in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman