DRN-3362190
The complaint
Miss C complains that an iPhone acquired with finance from Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss C was supplied with a phone and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with VMMF. Miss C experienced issues with the screen and speaker and took 
the phone to an Apple store who diagnosed the phone as requiring a replacement display.
Miss C contacted Virgin in September 2021 and reported issues with the screen and 
speaker. She asked Virgin to repair the phone. Virgin said it could send the phone for repair 
but that because it was out of warranty, Miss C would have to pay for repairs.
Miss C was unhappy about this and complained to Virgin. In response, Virgin said it didnt 
think it was responsible for repairs because of the length of time that had passed since the 
point of supply.
Miss C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She said she didnt 
think she should have to pay for repairs because the phone had become faulty through no 
fault of her own. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act, VMMF (as the credit provider) was jointly liable with Virgin (the supplier) if there had 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. The investigator said he didnt think the 
phone was of satisfactory quality because it wasnt sufficiently durable, which meant there 
had been a breach of contract. The investigator said that VMMF should replace the phone 
with a like for like model.
VMMF didnt agree. It said that Miss C had failed to report the fault to them within the 12 
month warranty period and that if she had done so, she would have been entitled to a free 
repair. Virgin said the phone was almost 2 years old when the fault was found and said that 
reasonable expectation of durability was the duration of the 12 month warranty period. 
VMMF said that if it was to be responsible, it thought it should be allowed to repair the 
phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit. There can be a valid claim under section 75 if the payment was 
made under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and if it can be shown that the supplier 
acted in breach of contract or made a misrepresentation.
In this case, Miss C is the debtor, VMMF is the creditor and Virgin Mobile Telecom Limited is 
the supplier.
Miss C hasnt said that the phone was misrepresented. So, Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The 
quality of goods includes their general state and condition, and other things including fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Ive looked at the available evidence. Miss C has said that she first experienced issues with 
the screen display and audio around 11 months after the point of supply. A report from Apple 
states that the phone was found to be in good condition with no signs of misuse by Miss C. 
This report didnt diagnose the cause of the fault but recommended replacement of the 
screen. A subsequent re-test of the phone in January 2022 diagnosed failure of the screen.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there is a fault with the phone. So, Ive 
considered whether the phone was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The phone was brand new when it was supplied. So, Id expect it to be free from minor 
defects foe a reasonable period of time. Miss C has said she first experienced an issue with 
the screen after around 11 months. Under the relevant legislation, its up to Miss C to show 
that the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I think the key issue to consider here is one of durability. I dont think that a reasonable 
person would expect to experience problems wit the scree on a brand new phone in the first 
year. Even if I were to accept the argument that the fault wasnt diagnosed until 2 years into 
the agreement, I still dont think that a reasonable person would expect a phone to fail within 
this amount of time. I dont think 2 years is a reasonable period of time in the context of 
durability.
VMMF has said that durability should be assessed having regard to the length of the 
warranty period of 12 months. Theres nothing in the legislation which links durability to the 
length of a warranty period. I understand that VMMF believe that the manufacturer shouldve 
repaired the phone, because the fault was first reported to the manufacturer within the 
warranty period. I dont necessarily disagree with the point VMMF makes. However, Im not 
looking at a complaint about the warranty here and Im unable to hold the manufacturer 
responsible under section 75.
I havent seen anything in the available information to suggest that Miss C is in any way 
responsible for the fault with the phone. Theres nothing to suggest external or water 
damage. The evidence seems to point towards a hardware fault.
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that the phone wasnt sufficiently durable, and 
therefore wasnt of satisfactory quality. This means theres been a breach of contract and 
VMMF need to put things right.
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, a business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault. VMMF 
has said it should be given an opportunity to repair the phone. However, I dont think this 
would be fair. Miss C has already asked for a repair to be carried out at no cost to her and 
VMMF refused. So, I think VMMF has already had an opportunity to repair. I think the fairest 
resolution now would be for VMMF to replace the phone with a like for like model. Miss C will 
have to return the old phone.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited must 
replace Miss Cs phone with a like for like model.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman