DRN-2562944
The complaint
Mr M complains that he shouldnt have been issued with a credit card by Vanquis Bank 
Limited (Vanquis).
 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M applied for a credit card with Vanquis. He was approved with a limit 
of £500.
Mr M complained that he shouldnt have been given the card. He was unemployed and on 
welfare benefits  his Employment and Support Allowance was £6,630 per annum. In his 
application, he said his total income was £12,870 per annum  Vanquis didnt ask him where 
this came from  they should have. Vanquis calculated his expenses to be £151 per month  
this wasnt correct as they were much higher than that  they didnt include bills and rent. So 
 Vanquis shouldve questioned him more on his outgoings. He had previous defaulted 
debts and County Court Judgements. Vanquis shouldve done more checks to make sure he 
could afford the debt he was taking on.
Vanquis said theyd reviewed Mr Ms application and the call when the card was agreed. 
Hed said his total benefits income was £12,870 per annum, of which £6,630 was 
Employment Support Allowance (ESA). His monthly income was therefore £552. Mr M had 
provided his outgoings which came to £151 per month. His rent was paid direct to the 
landlord from his housing benefit. Mr M said he provided the wrong information to Vanquis  
but they could only go on what they were told in the application. Theyd seen the CCJs and 
defaulted debt  but these were between 49 and 51 months before.  Other debts were 
shown as only £100. So  particularly as the limit was low at £500 - they said theyd lent 
responsibly. 
Mr M brought his complaint to the service. Our investigator said Vanquis had done the 
necessary credit checks. The CCJs and defaults were old. On the call between Mr M and 
Vanquis, hed gone through his income and expenses in detail. His rent was paid direct to 
his landlord from housing benefit  so that was taken care of. That left income of £510 per 
month (the ESA). Mr M had detailed his expenses to Vanquis on the call. While it wasnt part 
of Mr Ms complaint, he noted that when he contacted Vanquis again in July 2019 and 
October 2019  to say his benefits had been reduced - they agreed to lower payments and 
cut the interest rate. So, Vanquis had acted responsibly then, and in issuing the card in the 
first place.
Mr M asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M  and his third-party advisor  have said he shouldnt have been given the card. He 
was unemployed and struggling with depression. The income and expenditure figures 
worked out by Vanquis shouldve been challenged by them. And had they been, the card 
wouldnt have been issued.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms application - and listened to his call with Vanquis in January 2019. He 
passed Vanquis credit checks. Theyd looked at Mr Ms credit file  there were CCJs and 
defaulted debts, but these were a long time before the application  between 49 and 51 
months. And there were only other debts of £100 at the time. 
On the call with Vanquis, Mr M said his income from ESA was £6,630 per annum  just over 
£500 per month. In addition, housing benefit was said to be £6,240 per annum, and paid 
direct to the landlord  so Mr M didnt have to find rent out of his ESA. Mr M was asked 
about his expenses and listed these. They totalled £151 per month  electricity, council tax, 
water, food, TV, toiletries. He was asked about other expenditure such as a car, buses, 
taxis, gas, subscription TV, but said there wasnt anything else. So  Vanquis did question 
him about other expenditure, and he said there wasnt any. On the face of what they were 
told, Vanquis were correct to think that Mr M could afford the credit card. 
Also, on the call, Mr M was asked if his condition (depression) might affect how he might be 
able to manage his account. He said no. He was asked if he needed support in managing 
his account. He said no. Vanquis asked if he needed to nominate a third party to speak to 
them to help manage his account. He said he didnt. Vanquis asked if his circumstances may 
change in the next six months  Mr M said no. So, Vanquis acted responsibly in considering 
Mr Ms situation here.
So, while I have every sympathy with Mr Ms circumstances  and I know hell be 
disappointed by my decision - Vanquis didnt act irresponsibly in giving Mr M the card with a 
credit limit of £500. So, I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman