DRN-2403041
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has turned down a theft claim he made 
and voided his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out home insurance with Fairmead through a price comparison website in July 
2017. During the online sale, Mr M chose to take-up £60,000 worth of contents cover with a 
limit of £12,000 for high risk property and a high-risk single item limit of £2,500. The policy 
renewed each year.
In June 2019, Mr M and his wife were burgled and many items were stolen. They made a 
claim on their home insurance policy. Fairmead first appointed a loss adjuster and a 
jewellery specialist to look into Mr Ms claim. The loss adjuster assessed the value of the 
contents of Mr Ms home as being around £290,000, with the value of the high-risk items 
being placed around £109,000.
Given the loss adjusters findings, Fairmead asked a claims investigator to look into Mr Ms 
claim. The investigators report said that Mr M had known the actual value of his contents, 
but that hed put down the wrong figures because he didnt expect anything to happen and 
he didnt want to pay a higher premium. Based on the investigators report, Fairmead turned 
down Mr Ms claim and voided it from the start (cancelled it as if itd never existed). It said it 
wouldnt have offered Mr M contents cover of over £150,000 and it felt Mr M had 
misrepresented the value of his contents.
Mr M was unhappy with Fairmeads decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
said he wasnt asked to tell Fairmead what his contents were worth.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He considered whether it 
was fair for Fairmead to conclude Mr M had made a qualifying misrepresentation under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012. He felt Mr M had been 
asked a clear question about the value of his contents when he took out the policy, which 
hed answered incorrectly. And he felt Mr M had most likely known his answers werent 
correct. So he felt Mr M had made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation at the point of 
sale. Overall, he felt it was fair for Fairmead to avoid Mr Ms policy and keep the premiums 
hed paid.
Mr M disagreed. He said he and his wife were elderly and hadnt known the actual value of 
their contents. He maintained that he still didnt think his contents were worth more than 
£60,000  in fact, he now thinks theyre worth around £10,000. He felt the loss adjuster had 
twisted the facts to claim he knew the actual value of his contents. He says that the claims 
investigator didnt tell him shed included a statement that hed known about the actual value 
of his contents when she read the report aloud and asked him to sign it. And he asked 
whether we could send an assessor to his home to value the contents.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Fairmead has treated Mr M fairly. Ill explain why.
When Mr M took out the policy online, he was asked information about himself, his 
occupation and his property, amongst other things. Fairmead used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mr M and if so, on what terms.
Fairmead says that Mr M didnt correctly answer the questions he was asked during the 
sales process about the value of his contents and the value of his high-risk items. This 
means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles 
to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
Did Mr M make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA?
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. Mr M took out his policy 
through a price comparison website. While Fairmead cant provide me with a copy of the 
exact sales process Mr M wouldve followed, its provided me with questions it thinks 
wouldve been very similar. 
The first question asks:
How much would it cost to replace all the contents in your home? (exclude valuable items 
worth more than £1,500 each).
Its possible that this was the question Mr M wouldve seen. Ive looked at the statement of 
fact he was sent by Fairmead in 2017 after he bought the policy though and it seems more 
likely the applicable question wouldve been:
The full cost of replacing the contents of the property insured as new (including your high 
risk property total of £12,000 does not exceed Mr M answered £60,000.
It also seems Mr M was then asked: Do you have any individual high risk items that exceed 
your high risk single article limit of £2,500? Mr M answered no.
I think that the questions Mr M was asked were clear and specific enough that he shouldve 
been aware of what information Fairmead wanted to know. 
So Ive then turned to think about whether it was reasonable for Fairmead to conclude that 
Mr Ms contents and high value items were worth more than £60,000, £2500 and £12,000 
respectively.
Fairmeads loss adjusters report shows they thought Mr Ms contents were worth around 
£290,000 with high-risk items being worth around £107,000. Its jewellery specialist assessed 
the available evidence and calculated the likely value of replacing Mr Ms wifes stolen jewellery. It worked out the replacement cost would be around £85,200, with many of the 
items being worth significantly more than £2,500. 
And the claims investigator also stated in her report that Mr M was satisfied with the loss 
adjusters assessment of the value of their contents. So Im persuaded it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to conclude Mr Ms contents were worth more than £60,000 with high-risk items 
(like jewellery) being worth substantially more than £12,000. 
Mr M says neither he nor his wife knew their contents were worth more than £60,000 and 
indeed he now thinks his contents are worth around £10,000. Ive thought about this. But I 
think it was fair for Fairmead to rely on the specialist information available to it when it 
considered what Mr M wouldve known about the value of his contents. It seems he and his 
wife were able to give the jewellery specialist purchase prices for their stolen jewellery and 
this totalled around £44,000, based on their own assessment. Much of this was bought 
before the policy was taken out in 2017.This ties up with the claims investigators report 
which said:
Mrs M told me that her husband pays for all the jewellery and he knows what jewellery she 
has. Collecting jewellery is her hobby and she knows where the items have been purchased 
from and also the price paid.
Ive also borne in mind the following finding from the claims investigators report:
Mr M has confirmed the reason that he did not disclose the true value of their
contents was because they did not think anything would ever happen and did not
envisage ever having to make a claim and also they did not want to pay an increased
premium.
Mr M says the claims investigator never read this statement aloud and that hed never used 
the phrase insurance premium. Ive thought about this. But considering all of the evidence I 
have  including the available evidence from different assessors and the claims 
investigators report, which Mr M accepts he signed, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead 
to decide Mr M knew his contents were worth more than the cover limit hed selected. 
I appreciate Mr M feels another assessor should be arranged. Its open to Mr M to obtain 
such a contents assessment should he wish to do so, at his cost and send it on to Fairmead 
to consider. But based on the evidence it has available, I think Fairmeads conclusions were 
reasonable.
Overall, I think Mr M did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think 
Fairmead is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act.
Was it fair for Fairmead to avoid Mr Ms policy?
Fairmead say if it had known about the true value of Mr Ms contents, it would never have 
offered him insurance. Fairmead has provided evidence that the new business limit in 2017 
was £150,000 of contents cover and Im satisfied that this limit still remained at each 
renewal.
CIDRA says that in cases of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, an insurer is entitled 
to avoid the policy from the start and keep the premiums. In this case, bearing in mind I think 
Fairmead was reasonable in concluding Mr M knew his contents were worth more than 
£60,000, I think it was also fair for it to treat Mr Ms misrepresentation as deliberate or 
reckless. This means I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to void Mr Ms policy as if itd 
never existed and to keep the premiums hed paid.I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint and I sympathise with his 
position, given the potential impact a voidance on his records may have on his ability to get 
insurance in the future. But based on all Ive seen, Ive decided Fairmead has treated Mr M 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the law.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman