DRN-1548693
 
The complaint
X says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), irresponsibly lent 
to him. X says the affordability of the loans wasnt assessed and the impact of the lending 
has been significant for him.                            
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans Satsuma provided to X between November 
2015 and August 2016. Xs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 04/11/2015 09/08/2016 39 weekly £300.00 £76.55*
2 16/08/2016 15/08/2017 52 weekly £400.00 £76.55*
 
*This is the highest monthly repayment taking into account five weekly payments in one 
month.
The second of our adjudicators who assessed the case upheld Xs complaint and thought 
the loans shouldnt have been given as the repayments left X with limited or negative 
disposable income each month. 
Satsuma hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint remains 
unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure X 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether X could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Xs complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told us about the checks it carried out before it lent to X. This included a credit 
risk assessment, fraud and anti-money laundering checks and an affordability assessment.
The affordability assessment for loan one shows that X had a monthly income of £1,700 and 
monthly expenditure of £1,200. Satsuma also add a safeguard buffer which increased Xs 
outgoings by £392.96 so that his monthly expenditure was recorded as being £1,592.96. 
This left X with a monthly disposable income of £107.04. After taking into account the 
highest monthly repayment for loan one of £76.55, this would only leave X with a monthly 
disposable income each month of £30.49. Bearing in mind the loan was to be repaid over a 
little under ten months I dont think the lending was affordable for him. And I dont think its 
likely X wouldnt have had some unforeseen expenditure in that ten month period, so it 
wasnt likely that the lending would be sustainable for him.
For loan two  which was to be repaid over 12 months  Xs income was again recorded as 
being £1,700 per month and expenditure remained at £1,200. Again, Satsuma added a 
safeguard buffer, this time for the amount of £429.86. So, taking this into account Satsuma 
calculated that X would have a disposable income each month of £70.14. The highest 
monthly loan repayment was again £76.55 so X would be in a financially negative position 
each month. In both cases Satsuma was aware of this information about Xs financial circumstances 
before it lent to him. So, it should have realised both loans were unaffordable for him and it 
shouldnt have lent to him. 
So, like the second adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans one and two 
and Satsuma should put things right.
Putting things right  what Satsuma needs to do
refund all interest and charges X paid on loans one and two;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Xs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give X a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Xs complaint. Provident Personal Credit Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman