DRN-3896943
The complaint
Mrs O complains about her insurer, Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) 
repudiating a claim for damage to her vehicle under her motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Mulsanne in this decision includes their agents. 
Mrs O brought her complaint to this service more than six months after Mulsanne issued 
their final response to her. Mulsanne said they didnt consent to waiving the relevant time 
limits  but they didnt include this position in their final response. As this is a requirement 
under the FCAs Dispute Resolution rules (DISP 1.6 and 1.6.2) then Mulsanne didnt provide 
the correct referral rights to Mrs O in their final response. Because of this, our service was 
able to consider Mrs Os complaint.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs O took her husbands vehicle to see a friend in hospital. As she wasnt 
insured under the policy covering the vehicle, she took out a policy providing cover for her 
and the vehicle by the hour with Mulsanne. She parked the vehicle on a road near to the 
hospital. When she returned to the vehicle some 15 minutes later she unfortunately found 
the rear window had been smashed. Tools worth over £2,000 had been stolen from the 
vehicle and there was damage near the rear window and a front door, indicating attempts to 
force entry. She asked passers-by if theyd seen anything, but they hadnt. She also asked at 
a nearby building whether they had CCTV footage that covered her vehicle but was told the 
cameras werent working.
Mrs O contacted the police to report the incident as well as Mulsanne to tell them what had 
happened and lodge a claim. Mulsanne arranged for an engineer (AI) to inspect the vehicle 
and assess the damage. However, AI concluded the damage to the vehicle had been 
caused by (the front door) coming into contact with an upright post and (the damage near 
the rear window) being reversed into a pole or other obstruction (in turn smashing the rear 
window). Not how Mrs O had described the circumstances. Because they doubted Mrs Os 
version of events, Mulsanne appointed a forensic engineer (A) to assess the vehicle further. 
A concluded the location and nature of the damage was consistent with being caused in low-
speed parking manoeuvres (such as a glancing blow with a bollard and from the vehicle 
being reversed into a protruding object). They didnt think the damage claimed for would 
have been caused by an attempted break in or forced entry.
Based on the reports from AI and A, Mulsanne repudiated Mrs Os claim, concluding shed 
given a false account of the incident. They referred to the policy terms and conditions on 
fraudulent claims, and in addition to repudiating the claim put a block on her taking out any 
further policies with them.
Unhappy at what had happened and Mulsannes actions, Mrs O complained to them. She 
said photographs of the vehicle clearly showed it had been broken into and there was no 
pole or other obstruction near the vehicle that she could have reversed into. She also felt 
Mulsanne hadnt properly investigated the circumstances of the incident.
Mulsanne didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they referred to the inspections 
and conclusions of AI and A, from separate firms. While Mulsanne accepted Mrs O had 
reported the incident to the police, this didnt prove what had caused the damage to her 
vehicle. Having considered the reports from the two engineers, Mulsanne confirmed their 
decision to repudiate the claim.
Mrs O then complained to this service. She maintained her version of events, disagreeing 
with Mulsannes conclusions about the incident and their declining her claim. Shed been 
affected financially by having to pay the cost of replacing the smashed glass (£700  though 
to replace it with glass like the original would have cost £1,200). The damage to the vehicles 
bodywork would, she estimated, have decreased its value by £2,000 (and repairing the 
damage would cost a similar sum). And the stolen tools had cost over £2,000. She wanted 
Mulsanne to settle the claim for repairing the damage, including replacing the rear window 
with one matching the original and replace the stolen tools.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, and didnt ask Mulsanne to take any action. The 
reports from AI and A both concluded the damage to Mrs Os vehicle wasnt consistent with 
what Mrs O had said about the circumstances of the damage. On balance, the investigator 
was more persuaded by the views of AI and A, rather than the account given by Mrs O. So, 
our investigator thought Mulsanne had acted fairly and reasonably in repudiating the claim.
Mrs O disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She reiterated her version of what had happened and rejected AI and As views 
on the likely cause of the damage. There were no poles on the road she parked in that could 
have caused the damage. She also noted some of the contents in the vehicle had been left 
on the road beside the vehicle, along with broken glass from the rear window. She also 
provided a statement from her husband, in which he stated the damage to the front door had 
been caused the previous month by him coming into contact with a bollard (which he hadnt 
noticed at the time and which his wife wouldnt have noticed as she rarely used the vehicle). 
As Mrs O hadnt been aware of the pre-existing damage, she would have assumed it was 
caused as part of the break in/forced entry.
Mrs O also provided a report from an engineer (D) theyd obtained, which from inspection of 
the vehicle (after the rear window had been replaced) and the photographs of the vehicle 
after the incident, concluded the damage to the rear window and damage to the adjoining 
panel was likely to be related to a theft or attempted theft. The photographs showed glass 
from the smashed rear window on the roadside behind the vehicle with no evidence of a 
protruding post or similar that could have caused the damage.
As new evidence and information, our investigator shared the statement from Mrs Os 
husband and Ds report with Mulsanne, who considered it. They acknowledged what Mrs O 
had said about the front door damage being unrelated to the incident. A said they maintained 
their view of the likely cause of the damage to the rear window (although could not rule out 
the rear window being broken in order to gain entry to the vehicle). AI accepted the damage 
to the rear window could be consistent with someone breaking into the rear of the vehicle  
but they didnt think the damage to the adjoining panel was consistent with this possibility, 
maintaining the view it was caused by reversing into something with a relatively high profile.
Based on these views Mulsanne acknowledged that while they maintained the damage to 
the panel adjacent to the rear window wasnt caused by the incident, it wouldnt be possible 
to rule out the rear window being broken to gain entry to the vehicle. But they thought Mrs O 
had been trying to claim for damage unrelated to the incident (the front door and rear panel) 
so they were justified in repudiating the claim under the wording of the fraud General 
Condition. They also said the D appeared (from a search) to have been dissolved in 2011.Our investigator considered the information from Mrs O and Mulsannes response but 
concluded Mulsanne could use the wording of the fraud section to fairly maintain their 
repudiation of the claim, as Mrs O had provided inaccurate information when making her 
claim (about the damage to the front door and, in Mulsannes view, the rear panel).
Mrs O confirmed she wanted the complaint considered by an ombudsman, so the case has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Mulsanne has acted fairly towards Mrs O.
The key issue in Mrs Os complaint is whether Mulsanne acted fairly in repudiating her claim 
for damage to her vehicle, on the grounds they believe she gave a false account of how the 
damage occurred. In repudiating her claim, Mulsanne draw on the reports from AI and from 
A. Mrs O maintains the damage was caused by an attempted break in and forced entry, and 
by the rear window being smashed by the thief/thieves (who also stole tools from the 
vehicle). Mrs O doesnt believe Mulsanne carried out a proper investigation into the 
circumstances of the incident.
In considering both points of view, given their reliance on the reports from AI and A, Ive 
considered both reports.
AIs report concludes:
the damage to the nearside appears to be consistent with coming into contact with 
an upright post of some description, and the offside damage to the quarte panel 
appears to be consistent with the vehicle reversing into something and in turn 
smashing the rear screen
As report sets out their findings and conclusions based on photographs of the vehicle after 
the incident (rather than a physical inspection). The report sets out As findings and 
conclusions about the location, nature and extent of the damage, specifically that to the front 
door and to the rear panel adjacent to the rear window. The key conclusions from the report 
are as follows:
From the information available to me at this time, it is apparent that the insureds 
vehicle had sustained two separate and different areas of damage, one to its 
nearside and one to the rear of the offside quarter panel and rear screen
I consider that the patterns, dimensions and severity of these areas of damage are 
consistent with being caused in low sped parking type manoeuvre; the nearside 
damage being typical of a glancing blow with a bollard and the rear typical of the 
vehicle being reversed into contact with a square edged protruding object
I do not consider that these areas of damage would have been caused by an 
attempted break in/forced entry into the vehicle
Ive also considered the statement from Mrs Os husband and D. The latters report stated:
we would advise in our opinion the broken tailgate glass and horizontal dent to the 
O/S frame section is likely to be related to a theft / attempted theft. The images taken 
at the scene show glass from the tailgate on the roadside behind the vehicle with no evidence of any protruding post or similar that could possibly caused this damage as 
suggested by the insurer.
Taking these points together, it seems it is agreed the damage to the front door wasnt 
caused by the incident  it was (according to Mrs Os husband) caused by him shortly before 
the incident. His description of what happened also matches closely the opinion of A as to 
the likely cause of the damage. However, it also seems this agreed version of events only 
emerged during the course of the investigation of the complaint by this service, some 16 
months after the incident (when Mr O provided his statement).
Ive then considered the damage to the rear panel adjacent to the rear window. AI and (in 
particular) A maintain their view this wasnt likely to have been caused in the incident  it 
was more consistent with coming into contact with a protruding object. Looking at the 
photographs of the damage to the panel, Im persuaded thats likely to have been the case, 
as the damage doesnt appear consistent with trying to force open the rear tailgate of the 
vehicle (to gain access to the vehicle). So, Ive concluded the damage wasnt (on the 
balance of probabilities) caused in the incident.
This leaves the question of the broken (smashed) rear window. In their response to Ds 
report, Mulsanne accept (as do AI and A) that its not possible to rule out the rear window 
being smashed in order to gain access to the vehicle (the photographs of the vehicle taken 
after the incident show the rear compartment of the vehicle containing boxes of equipment, 
which may have been observed by a thief and led to them smashing the window to steal the 
equipment  which is what Mr O maintains, referring to the theft of tools). 
Considering these comments, along with the photographs of the vehicle (including glass on 
the road) I think its possible this is what happened  rather than AIs view the glass was 
smashed at the same time as the damage to the rear panel when revering the vehicle into a 
post or other protruding object.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive then considered Mulsannes view  both in their 
repudiation letter, and when responding to the further information and evidence from Mrs O 
 that Mrs O had breached the fraud condition within the General Conditions section of the 
policy. The relevant wording is set out below:
3. Fraud
If any claim is in any way fraudulent or if you or anyone acting on your behalf has 
used any fraudulent means, including inflating or exaggerating the claim, or 
submitting forged or falsified documents, or if you have not given complete or 
accurate information, then no payment will be made, all cover under this policy will 
end and you will lose any premium that you have paid
Looking at this wording in the context of what happened and my conclusions above, Ive 
concluded Mrs O, by including the damage to the front door and rear panel, did provide 
inaccurate information when making her claim (if not inflating or exaggerating the claim). 
While its now accepted the damage to the front door wasnt related to the incident, I think 
that should have been made clear at the time the incident was reported (or shortly 
afterwards) rather than much later as part of this services consideration of her complaint.
For these reasons, Ive concluded Mrs O didnt comply with the above fraud condition. The 
wording also makes it clear that if this is the case, no cover would be provided under the 
policy. So, Ive concluded Mulsanne have acted fairly and reasonably in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions in repudiating Mrs Os claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman