DRN-2948881
The complaint
Mr K has complained about charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr K acquired a new car under a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in September 2017. 
In 2020 he decided to voluntary terminate his agreement and hand the car back. MBFS said 
he owed £410.50. This was made up of:
£210 for damage to the rear bumper,
£60 for a missing tyre sealant, and
£140.50 for a missing compressor.
Mr K says the car was never supplied with the compressor or sealant because it came with 
the sort of tyres that dont require those items  run flat tyres. He said the cost for repairing 
the bumper was excessive. He also said hed refused to sign the collection document and 
the agent had signed it without his approval. Moreover, Mr K says the car was handed back 
with four run flat tyres. So he complained to MBFS. 
MBFS said it thought the damage was evident and the items were missing so the charges 
were fair. And it thought the car was returned with only two run flat tyres. So it didnt agree to 
remove any of the charges. 
Our investigator looked in to Mr Ks complaint. She said the MBFS vehicle returns standards 
(VRS) said the car should be returned in good condition and without damage that was 
outside of fair wear and tear. She thought the damage to the bumper was outside of fair 
wear and tear, so the charge was fairly applied. And she also noted the hire purchase 
agreement said the car should be returned with everything that had been supplied. So she 
thought the charge for the sealant and compressor was fair too. Finally, she didnt think 
MBFS needed to take any action as a result of the inspection not being signed by Mr K. 
Mr K didnt agree, he reiterated the car wasnt provided with a sealant and compressor 
because it was provided with run flat tyres. So he didnt think the charge was fair. But while 
he didnt agree with the amount, he said he accepted the investigators view on the damage. 
Our investigator asked MBFS further questions about the sealant and compressor. And 
MBFS provided a specification sheet showing what was supplied with the car, including the 
sealant and compressor. And it also said it had no record of the retailer having claimed for 
the sealant or compressor not being present  which it wouldve expected if they werent 
provided. So her opinion remained the same. 
Mr K asked the supplying dealer to confirm the car didnt come with a sealant or compressor. 
But it looks like the supplying dealer indicated this would have to be dealt with by MBFS. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
Mr K has pointed out the collection agent signed the collection report without his approval, 
and hes unhappy with this. I think the crux of the complaint I need to consider is whether or 
not MBFS has applied charges fairly. So thats what Im going to go on to decide. 
The car was new when it was supplied to Mr K, so I think its reasonable to assume it was 
supplied free from even minor defects. Therefore, any damage that was on the car when it 
was returned wouldve likely happened during the time it was with Mr K. 
I dont think I need to go over everything the investigator has already highlighted on the 
agreement and the VRS. But, for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied the agreement and 
VRS Mr K agreed to say MBFS can charge for damage thats outside of fair wear and tear 
and for any missing items. 
Turning first to the damage on the bumper, Mr K doesnt seem to be saying the damage 
wasnt present, but hes unhappy with the amount of the charge. For completeness sake I 
agree theres damage to the bumper. It looks like either a moderate size scuff, or a selection 
of small scratches. Given the mark looks like its over 50mm (the threshold for bumper scuffs 
on the VRS) I think it is outside of fair wear and tear. So I agree MBFS is able to charge for 
it. And while I can understand why Mr K is unhappy the charge is £210, I dont find I have the 
grounds to say this charge is unreasonable. So Im not going to direct MBFS to take any 
action in relation to charge for the bumper damage. 
Ive thought next about the missing items  the compressor and sealant. Ill never know 
whether these were provided when Mr K acquired the car. Mr K says they werent. And 
MBFS says they were. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
MBFS has given us a copy of the specification sheet showing what was provided with the 
car, including the sealant and compressor. The specification says the car came with 
summer tyres, and in an internal email trail from MBFS investigation one of its agents says 
the car didnt come with run flats. Weve been unable to obtain confirmation from the 
supplying dealer the car came with run flats either. 
Weighing up what we have been provided, I dont think I can say the most likely thing to 
have happened is that the compressor or sealant werent provided. I think I have to put quite 
a lot of weight on the cars specification sheet given the accounts from Mr K and MBFS are 
so conflicting. So, on balance, I think the charge has been fairly applied. And the amount of 
the charge doesnt seem unreasonable either.  
Finally, I asked our investigator to speak to MBFS because it said the car was returned with 
two run flats, but Mr Ks evidence indicates he bought four run flats about a year before 
handing the car back  meaning these were likely the tyres on the car on its return. But 
MBFS declined to remove the charges off the back of that. Nevertheless, seeing as its 
contractually able to charge for things that werent returned that were (probably) supplied 
with the car, I dont find I have the grounds to ask it to remove the charges. Ive got sympathy with Mr K. He covered nearly 36,000 miles in the car. He looked after it on 
the whole, and hes still being asked to pay over £400. But for the reasons given above, Im 
not going to direct MBFS to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman