DRN-2484536
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with ALD Automotive 
Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with ALD. The 
agreement was for 48 months, with monthly payments of £72.66.  
In March 2020 Mr S found that he could no longer adjust the drivers seat. And this meant 
his wife wasnt able to move the seat so she could drive the car safely. Mr S took the car to 
the manufacturers local dealership and they repaired the seat. But, four weeks later, the 
seat stopped working again. And, unfortunately due to the national lockdown in place at the 
time, the dealership and all other local garages were all closed.
The dealership was able to look at the car in May 2020 and determined the seat motor was 
faulty. This meant the whole seat base needed to be replaced. But, because the 
manufacturers supply chain had been affected by the global pandemic, the seat base wasnt 
replaced until August 2020, and a missing piece of trim wasnt fitted until November 2020.
Mr S was unhappy with what had happened, and he complained to ALD. Once the repairs 
had been completed, ALD offered to refund one months payment to compensate Mr S for 
the loss of use and enjoyment of the car hed suffered. Bur Mr S didnt accept this, and he 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the delays to the repairs to the car were, in part, due to the difficulty of 
tracing the fault and then ordering the replacement parts  the dealership tried to order just 
the motor before they realised the entire seat base needed to be replaced. But he also said 
that delays had also been caused by the wrong part being sent to the dealership, the 
national lockdown and the global pandemic.
The investigator thought that, even without the delays caused by the pandemic, the amount 
of time Mr S was without full use of the car was unreasonable, especially given that it was 
only nine months old when the fault occurred. So he thought ALD should compensate Mr S.
The investigator explained that, as the hirer of the car, we can only consider the impact this 
had on Mr S. And we couldnt consider the impact it had on other people. So, while he 
appreciated that Mr Ss wife hadnt been able to drive the car, Mr S had. Because of this he 
thought the compensation already offered by ALD was reasonable, and he didnt think they 
needed to increase this.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that the lease doesnt specify that only one 
person can drive the car, and that the seat position must remain static. And he thinks the fact 
that he mayve needed to adjust the seat position at some stage should also be taken into 
consideration.
Mr S has also said that the fault shouldnt have taken seven months to get fixed. And the car 
has now developed another fault with the heating system. So he thinks all of this makes the 
car unfit for purpose, and he should be able to reject it.
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, this case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, ALD are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description other relevant 
circumstances.  
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault occurred after six 
months, then its for Mr S to prove the fault was present at the point of supply. So, if I thought 
the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask ALD to put this right.
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. Mr S was supplied with the car in early June 
2019, and in late March 2020  almost 10 months later  the mechanism for adjusting the 
drivers seat stopped working. Ive not seen any evidence to show me that this fault was 
either present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr S. So I cant agree the 
car was of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied. But I also dont think any reasonable 
person would expect the seat adjustment mechanism to only last 10 months.
Mr S first took his car to the dealership, to have the seat looked at, on 23 March 2020. And it 
wasnt until 13 August 2020 that the seat base was replaced. This is a period of about 20 
weeks. And, because the initial repair carried out the dealership lasted for a short time, the 
car seat couldnt be adjusted for around 16 weeks.
During this 16-week period Mr S was able to drive the car without any problem. Hes said 
that he mayve needed to adjust the car seat during this period. But this wasnt the case. And 
Im only looking at what actually happened, not what couldve happened.
I appreciate that not being able to adjust the car seat wouldve been frustrating for Mr S, as 
would the need to wait from August to November 2020 for the missing piece of trim to be 
fitted. And Mr S needed to visit the dealership on a number of times between March and 
November 2020. Which wouldve been both annoying and inconvenient. But, for the reasons 
that the car was still useable, I dont agree that these frustrations and inconveniences made 
the car not fit for purpose.Its also the case that Mr Ss wife wasnt able to drive the car during the 16-week period the 
seat wasnt working. I agree with Mr S that the hire agreement doesnt say that the car can 
only be driven by one person, and that that person cant adjust the seat. But its also the 
case that the hire agreement was in his sole name. So, while I appreciate that his wife was 
also impacted by the seat adjustment issues, as the investigator explained our rules only 
allow us to consider the impact on ALDs customer - and this was Mr S. So I wont be able to 
consider the impact on anyone but Mr S.
Finally I need to consider what was within and without ALDs control. As explained, the car 
seat adjustment issue occurred when the UK was in an unprecedented situation, and a 
national lockdown had been imposed because of a global pandemic. This caused delays in 
both the dealership being available to undertake repairs, and in the supply chain being able 
to supply parts. And this was something outside of ALDs control or influence. So I cant hold 
them responsible for these delays.
ALD have offered Mr S a refund of one months payment to compensate him for the fact that 
he was able to fully use his car, with the exception of being able to adjust the position of the 
drivers seat, for 16 weeks. And for the frustration and inconvenience of him having to take to 
car to the dealership on a number of occasions and having to wait for the trim so the repair 
to be completed. While I appreciate that Mr S probably wont agree with me, Im satisfied 
that this was a reasonable offer when all of the circumstances have been taken into 
consideration. So I wont be asking them to increase this. And its now for Mr S to decide 
whether to accept this offer or not.
In his comments on the investigators view, Mr S also said the car has now developed an 
intermittent heating problem. Ive seen the investigator has explained that he needs to raise 
this with ALD in the first instance, and why we cant become involved at this stage. Because 
of this, I wont comment further on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about ALD Automotive 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman