DRN-3205670
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc allowed money to leave his joint account, despite him 
asking for a block to be put on the account because of a dispute with the other account 
holder.
What happened
Mr V had a joint account with a family member at Santander. Mr V was expecting an 
inheritance to credit the joint account on 4 May 2021, but Mr V was worried that the other 
account holder would take money from the account that she wasnt entitled to, so he 
contacted Santander on 3 May 2021, to see if they could put a block on the account to 
prevent either of them taking money from the account, unless both of them signed to do so.
Santander agreed that they would be able to change the account type to show a dispute on 
the account and cancel any cards or chequebooks on the account. They explained to Mr V 
that the only way money could be taken out of the account is if both account holders visited 
the branch and signed for it. On 4 May 2021, the inheritance was credited to the account. 
Both of the account holders were executors of the will. But the other account holder 
transferred over £85,000 to herself online, without Mr Vs agreement, which he says is more 
than she was entitled to take. 
Mr V complained to Santander, who upheld his complaint. Santander explained that the call 
handler who initiated the dispute on the account hadnt explained that the block wouldnt be 
immediate, as it could take up to a few days to be completed. As the account hadnt been 
technically placed in dispute until 5 May 2021, the other account holder was able to transfer 
money out of the account. Santander said that as a result of their misinformation they offered 
Mr V £200 compensation, however, he had rejected the compensation offered.
Mr V brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said he thought the 
compensation that was offered was fair. He explained that the issue of how much of the 
funds in the account Mr V was entitled to was a civil dispute between him and the other 
account holder. In September 2021, Mr V and the other account holder agreed to transfer 
the account into Mr Vs sole name and the block was removed.
As Mr V couldnt get access to the funds in the account on the block was in effect, Mr V 
needed to use his own money to pay for estate bills. He also needed to get a solicitor for his 
dispute with the other account holder. And he was unhappy that Santander didnt allow him 
access to the funds. But our investigator explained that as Mr V had told him if the block had 
been immediately placed, then both him and his family member would have needed to get 
solicitors involved. Our investigator said if the block had been placed accurately, then Mr V 
wouldve needed to get solicitors involved anyway, so Santander shouldnt be responsible 
for his legal bill.
Our investigator concluded that most of the troubles Mr V experienced in accessing the 
money and the main reason for Mr V getting a solicitor, were a result of the civil dispute with 
the other account holder. He said Santanders error certainly didnt help matters and he 
understood why Mr V felt let down by them, but £200 was a fair offer. Mr V asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint as he felt the compensation should be significantly 
higher. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have admitted that they gave Mr V misinformation regarding the block on his 
account. I think this would have resulted in Mr V being distressed when he found out that the 
block wasnt in place and the other account holder had transferred more than half of the 
money out of the account  something which Mr V had expressed his fear to Santander that 
this might happen.
But I am persuaded that ultimately this is a civil dispute between Mr V and his family 
member, as it was her who transferred the funds out of the joint account. Im persuaded that 
regardless of Santanders mistake here, it was always likely to end up with solicitor 
involvement and thats why I dont think it would be reasonable for Santander to pay for Mr 
Vs legal costs.
I say this because if Santander had explained to Mr V that the block wasnt immediate and it 
could take a few days to be in place, then it may have been a race between Mr V and the 
other account holder to transfer the funds out of the account. Although Ive considered that 
Mr V may have been able to give the solicitors a different account number to transfer the 
funds into - had he had known that it would take a couple of days for the blocks to be in full 
effect, there would be nothing stopping the other account holder doing this also. 
It may not have even been possible to change the account the inheritance was being paid 
into at this stage. As Mr V rang Santander on a bank holiday Monday, its likely that the 
solicitors would have been closed that day. So with the money being paid into the account 
the following day, it may have been too late to change the instructions of where the money 
needed to be paid. But regardless of this, there still would have been a dispute over the 
funds between Mr V and his family member.
As the funds were from an inheritance and Mr V has explained that both he and his family 
member were executors of the will, then they would have a duty to carry out the instructions 
of the will. So in terms of Mr Vs relative taking more money than he says she should have 
done, this would be a matter he would need to take up with a solicitor, if he hasnt already 
done so. But it appears that Mr V reached an agreement with the other account holder in 
September 2021, when she came off the account. I agree with our investigator that I havent 
seen anything to say that apart from Santanders error, Mr Vs civil dispute wouldve been 
resolved earlier. 
Ive considered what Mr V has said about how he wasnt able to withdraw money from the 
account without the other account holders signature once the block was in place. But I dont 
think Santander have done anything wrong here. This is because they had explained to Mr V 
that when the block was on the account, the only way that funds could be accessed is if both 
parties signed for the money. I know it might seem unfair to Mr V that the other account 
holder was able to take funds from the account and he wasnt. But this was only because the 
block wasnt fully in place at the time the other account holder transferred the money. 
Once the block was in full effect, neither of the account holders could access the funds 
without both of their signatures. So, this also means that even if the blocks had been placed 
instantly, Mr V wouldnt have been able to access the money earlier to be able to pay off the 
estates bills.Ive considered what Mr V has said about the compensation that Santander offered him. I 
know he feels strongly that the £200 which Santander has offered is insulting as hes 
suffered a lot of stress about what happened here. I have listened to the phone calls hes 
had with Santander and I can tell what a difficult time this was for him. Not only was the 
money a result of an inheritance, but it is clear from the phone calls that hes having a lot of 
issues with the other account holder. So I understand why this is important to him.
But I can only consider the misinformation that Santander gave Mr V here. This is because 
the matter of how the inheritance should be split is a civil matter as Ive already explained. 
So I am persuaded that the £200 which has been offered is a fair offer of compensation for 
the misinformation Santander gave Mr V. 
I say this as Im persuaded that it reflects the impact of having to go into the branch and 
telephone Santander once hes realised the blocks hadnt been in place and for the distress 
and inconvenience that this would have caused him. So it follows that Ill be asking 
Santander to pay Mr V what they have offered him.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr V £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman