DRN-3754293
Complaint
Miss M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly restricted a 
debit card transaction and then blocked her account. 
Background
When NatWest investigated Miss Ms complaint it accepted that Miss M may not have been 
provided with the best service. And it offered her £50 in compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused. Miss M remained dissatisfied and referred her 
complaint to our service.
Miss Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He thought that what NatWest 
had already paid Miss M was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. So he 
didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Given Miss Ms initial submissions, I do think it would be useful for me to reiterate that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator of the financial services industry. So I 
simply dont have the power to make the direction  in relation to changes to NatWests 
security systems  that Miss M is seeking here.
All Im able to do is look at whether what NatWest has already done to put things right, for 
what it has already accepted went wrong, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of         
Miss Ms complaint. And thats what Ive done here. 
It isnt in dispute that NatWest passed Miss M between the branch and telephone customer 
service centre and that this would have been annoying and frustrating. But NatWest has 
already paid Miss M £50 for this. Miss M says that the amount paid doesnt reflect the 
amount of time her account was blocked for. However, NatWest has provided us with 
evidence to show that Miss Ms account wasnt ever blocked. It is unsure why Miss Ms initial 
transaction didnt go through but is of the view that this happened as a result of some kind of 
system error. Ive looked through the information provided and I cant see that Miss Ms 
account was ever blocked either. 
I do accept that Miss M did experience an amount of frustration and annoyance as a result of 
NatWests actions and her difficulties in making her purchase. I also understand why this 
might have been upsetting and that the impact on Miss M was more than just minimal. 
However, I do think that matters were put right relatively quickly. And as Ive already 
explained, I dont think that Miss Ms account was ever blocked either. 
Overall, Im satisfied that £50 is adequate amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss M experienced here  although I do appreciate Miss M doesnt agree 
that this is the case. So having considered everything, Im satisfied that what NatWest has 
already done to put things right for Miss M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
her complaint. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman