DRN-2939940
The complaint
  The estate of Mr H is represented in this complaint by the late Mr Hs wife who I will call 
Mrs M. 
Where I say in this decision Mrs M complains or makes submissions she is always doing 
this on behalf of the estate of the late Mr H. However, I will not say this each time.
Mrs M complains that the sofa covers that were bought by Mr H using finance provided by
Santander UK PLC were misrepresented and were not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier decision, which was a provisional 
decision. However, so that all relevant information is in this decision I will repeat that 
background again below.
In December 2014 the late Mr H used his credit card to buy sofa covers from a retailer who 
I will call K. It seems before he went ahead with the purchase he asked K specifically 
whether the sofa covers were washable as this was important to him. Mrs M tells us he 
was told that the sofa covers were washable.
It appears that it is not disputed by Santander that the late Mr H did ask if the sofa covers 
were washable and was told the sofa covers were washable. And indeed, the care 
instructions for the sofa covers also say they are washable.
The sofa covers were washed using a suitable product. It seems that the manufacturer who 
I will call C tested one of the sofa covers after the washing and it confirms a suitable 
washing product was used. And it appears that Santander does not dispute this either. 
Mrs M tells us that once the sofa covers were washed they were then line dried and put 
back on the sofa while damp. But by this point the sofa covers had already shrunk.
The late Mr H complained to K about the shrinking. Between them they agreed (after some 
to and fro) that hed send back one of the sofa covers to K, K in turn then sent the cover 
back to C. 
C examined the sofa cover. It agreed, as a goodwill gesture, to send Mr H new 
replacement sofa covers (also washable) which it did. These new replacement sofa covers 
were washed and line dried and put back on the sofa while damp. But these replacement 
sofa covers also shrank. Dissatisfied, the late Mr H complained again.
The manufacturer, the supplier and Santander all agree that the sofa covers should have
been dried flat and put back on the sofas while damp. As a result, Santander K and Cs
stance appears to be that because whoever washed the sofa covers did not dry the sofa 
covers flat, but line dried them, then by reason of this drying method alone, they did not 
launder the covers in line with the washing instructions. This in turn they suggest caused 
the shrinkage.
In addition, while accepting on the one hand that the sofa covers could be washed C also 
said on the other hand even though some of our covers are suitable for machine washing, 
[including the sofa covers in this complaint] we would always recommend professional dry 
cleaning (I will come back to this point later). Santander appears to rely on this argument 
too
Moreover, Santander but not K and C, also said the covers may have shrunk because 
although the covers were washed using a suitable product, they may not have been 
washed correctly otherwise. It points out that saying an item is washable does not mean 
things can be washed at any temperature and using any setting. The implication being that 
according to Santander the sofa covers were washed but not all of the specific washing 
instructions were followed.
 On the basis of all these points Santander does not agree it is obliged to do anything 
further to help.
Dissatisfied, the late Mr H complained to our service.
I reviewed this complaint. I found that the sofa covers had been misrepresented and as a 
result I ordered Santander to put things right. Specifically, I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The late Mr H used his credit card provided by Santander to buy the sofa covers. Because 
the late Mr H used this form of finance to pay for the sofa covers Mrs M suggests that he 
got the benefit of the protection offered by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75), and that is what Mrs M is relying on in this complaint.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against the supplier, he can also bring a like claim against the finance 
provider provided certain conditions are met.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have 
under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve this complaint, I have to 
take account of relevant law. Since Section 75 is relevant law Ive thought about it when 
looking at this complaint. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome 
as, for example, a court might reach if the late Mr Hs Estate pursued a claim in court for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because this service is an informal 
alternative to the courts.
In this context misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that the consumer relied on 
when entering into the contract. Mrs M suggests that the sofa covers are not [in fact] 
washable [even though they ought to be as Mr H was told they were washable before he 
went ahead and bought them] and therefore there was a relevant misrepresentation. I 
agree with her. I say this for the following reasons.
There is no dispute that the covers were washed using a correct cleaning product (whether 
by Mrs M or by the late Mr H is not clear, and I dont think it matters). There is no dispute 
that following the washing the covers shrunk. Moreover, they shrunk to such a 
considerable degree that they no longer fully cover the sofas as they should. The question 
is what caused this? As I mentioned above Santander has put forward three possible 
reasons. Ive looked at each of them, one by one.
The first reason put forward is that the line drying rather than drying flat is the problem. 
Neither K nor C who are the experts here has explained this any further and said why line 
drying and putting the covers on damp was any more likely than drying the covers flat and 
putting them on damp to have caused the shrinkage. On balance, Im not persuaded that 
this caused the problem, it seems far more likely in the circumstances that the problem was 
the washing. All the more so because the care instructions for the covers also talk about 
avoiding excessive wetting because this might cause shrinkage. What could be more 
excessively wet than washing?The second reason is that although the covers are washable C recommends dry-cleaning. 
Why C recommends dry-cleaning over washing is unclear. If the covers are suitable for 
washing why is dry-cleaning recommended instead as the better option? Why should 
washing not be an equal option for washable sofa covers provided the washing instructions 
are followed? In any event the instructions dont say dry-clean only. Therefore, I am not 
persuaded that Santander should not take responsibility because the sofa covers were 
washed rather than dry-cleaned.
The third reason is that Santander suggests that the covers may have been washed but 
washed in the wrong way. I take its point to a degree, in general washing instructions have 
to be followed to the letter. I think most of us who do laundry might have had the misfortune 
of mistakenly washing items at the wrong temperature or using the wrong washing cycle 
and it generally does not end well. I agree Santander would not be responsible if that is 
what happened, but I dont think it did, on balance. Whoever washed the covers took the 
trouble to use a suitable detergent why would they use the right detergent but the wrong 
washing cycle and do so not once (with this original covers) but twice (with the replacement 
covers), I find this improbable. In other words, on balance, I find it more likely that the sofa 
covers were washed correctly but still shrunk. In other words, they were not washable 
despite what was said.
Ive not looked at whether there has been a breach of contract here, in the sense that the 
covers were not of satisfactory quality as they were not as described. I have made no 
finding about this because I dont need to in order to tell Santander it has to give the late Mr 
Hs Estate all of its money back. Even if I had made a finding about whether the covers 
were of satisfactory quality I would not be able to ask Santander to do anything more than I 
am asking it to do now.
For the reasons I set out above I find that Santander must refund the total amount that was 
paid for the sofa covers with interest.
As a result of the above my provisional decision was:
My provisional decision is that Santander UK PLC must refund the entire amount in full that 
the late Mr H paid for the sofa covers. In addition, it must pay interest on that refund at the 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date the payment was made until the date of 
settlement.
I invited Mrs M and Santander to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do 
that. Both did respond. Mrs M told us she accepted my provisional decision, Santander told 
us it had nothing to add at this stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mrs M and Santander for their responses to my provisional decision. Ive 
reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision.
Neither party has asked me to look at any new information. Therefore, it follows, I have 
reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision and 
which I set out again above.
Normally I might have asked Santander to take back the sofa covers because I am ordering 
a full refund. But given the current situation where people are trying to minimise unnecessary 
contact with each other and given that I doubt Santander has any capacity to accept and deal with used shrunken sofa covers I have not ordered this. I did ask Santander if it wanted 
the sofa covers returned to it, but it has not said it did want them.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK PLC must refund the entire amount in full that the late 
Mr H paid for the sofa covers. In addition, it must pay interest on that refund at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date the payment was made until the date of settlement.
Santander must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mrs M 
accepts my final decision. 
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment (if it is able to) so that Mrs M can reclaim the tax if she 
is able to.
Mrs M should refer back to Santander if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman