DRN-3649348
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt refunded him, following a dispute he 
raised
What happened
Mr A purchased a one-month user licence to have access to a database of CVs with a 
company I shall call D. This purchase was made using Mr As Monzo debit card on 6 
December 2021 and cost £298.80.
 
Mr A raised a dispute with Monzo on 20 January 2022 as he believed the service he had 
paid for, hadnt been received. Monzo responded on 22 January 2022 advising the dispute 
had been rejected, as insufficient evidence had been provided. Monzo asked for evidence 
Mr A had tried to resolve the issue with D and anything Mr A had to show a description of 
what was purchased along with what he actually received.
 
Mr A re-submitted his dispute on 27 January 2022. In this he explained that the CVs werent 
UK based, as he says he was told, and the CVs were often out of date. Mr A provided 
screenshots of CVs and an email exchange with D, where concerns with the database being 
unavailable for an hour were raised.
 
Monzo again rejected the dispute and therefore Mr A asked for a complaint to be logged. 
Monzo issued its final response on 11 February 2022. In this it said that Mr A hadnt given D 
14 days to reply to his concerns with the service it had provided. Monzo also said that Mr A 
hadnt provided evidence that D had failed to provide the service he had paid for.
 
Mr A therefore referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and concluded that given the evidence Mr A did receive the service hed paid for. 
Mr A remained unhappy with this outcome and therefore the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo initially looked to see if it could assist Mr A in retrieving a refund via the chargeback 
process. Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme. For Mr As debit card, the relevant 
card scheme is MasterCard. 
A consumer is not entitled to chargeback by right. But where there are grounds to raise one 
and it has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one to be raised by the 
card issuer. Once a refund is requested by a consumer, the card issuer will usually look at 
the card scheme rules to see if the nature of the dispute is covered under the list of possible 
chargeback reasons. If so, relevant evidence might be requested to back up the claim and 
the chargeback is raised. 
In Mr As case, Monzo didnt believe that a chargeback had any chance of being successful, 
so didnt pursue it further. Ive therefore considered whether I agree with that position. 
Ive looked at the MasterCard chargeback rules which gives the full list of dispute reason 
codes that can be used to raise a chargeback. Having considered these reason codes, there 
are two that I believe couldve potentially been used by Monzo to initiate a chargeback. 
One of these is where the service hasnt been provided. In this case Mr A was able to find 
CVs, so I dont think this would be relevant. D was providing access to an online system 
which can sometimes have technical issues and I acknowledge that Mr A says Ds system 
would go down on a regular basis.
However, other than one email where Mr A raises the system being down for an hour, a 
claim which D disputes believing it was only 10 minutes, there isnt any further evidence of 
the system not working. Im therefore satisfied that any chargeback raised under service not 
provided would have been defended by D and the chargeback unsuccessful. 
The other chargeback reason code Monzo could have used is services were not as 
described.
 
Mr A believes the CVs were either out of date or the candidates were based in countries 
outside of the UK and this isnt what he was told he would receive when purchasing access 
to Ds CV database. However, there isnt any evidence to support Mr As claim that he was 
told CVs would all be from UK based candidates.
Ive therefore looked at the invoice and this makes no promise that the CVs would suit Mrs 
A particular needs. It doesnt say Mr A would receive a certain amount of positive interaction 
with candidates, nor that the candidates would all be UK based. Here, what Mr A has paid 
for is to receive one months access to Ds CV database and Im satisfied that is what he 
received. 
Taking everything into consideration, Monzo hasnt acted unreasonably in not attempting a 
chargeback. If it had tried under the possible reason codes Ive mentioned above, I find that 
the chargeback wouldnt have had any reasonable grounds for success as it would likely 
have been defended by D.   
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman