DRN-4215019
The complaint
Mr B complains that Unum Ltd has terminated a claim he made on a group income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr B was insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. Mr Bs 
employer had taken out the policy on limited benefit cover terms. This meant that the policy 
would provide cover for benefits to be payable for a maximum period of five years. 
In July 2017, unfortunately, Mr B became very unwell and needed emergency surgery. He 
was unable to work and therefore, his employer made an incapacity claim on the policy. Mr 
Bs policy deferred period ended in January 2018 and Unum accepted the claim from that 
point. It paid Mr Bs one monthly benefit payment.
However, Mr B had returned to work on a full-time basis and was being paid his usual salary, 
although he wasnt performing all of his usual duties. So Unum requested a refund of the 
benefit payment it had paid from the employer and it marked Mr Bs claim value as nil.
Mr B continued to work full-time hours for his employer until October 2019, at which point he 
took redundancy. Unum agreed with Mr Bs employer that it would make benefit payments to 
Mr B directly. Mr B was signed-off work again and it appears that Unum began paying him 
monthly incapacity benefit directly.
But in January 2023, Unum let Mr B know that its liability under the claim had ended. It said 
that his claim had reached the maximum benefit period of five years.
Mr B was unhappy with Unums decision and so he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
told us that his employer had informed him that Unum would pay benefit until he reached 
state retirement age.
Unum told us that the limited benefit term runs from the date following the end of a 
policyholders deferred period and doesnt change, even if no benefit is being paid. So even 
though it hadnt paid benefit for Mr B between January 2018 and the ending of Mr Bs 
employment, it considered his claim had reached the end of the limited benefit period.
Our investigator didnt think Unum had treated Mr B fairly. Briefly, he didnt think Unums 
position was reasonable. He considered the policy terms and he felt they indicated that if Mr 
B had returned to active work, then the limited benefit provisions wouldnt apply to the 
circumstances of the claim. Mr B had returned to full-time work between January 2018 and 
October 2019, on a full-salary. So the investigator thought it would be fair for Unum to treat 
Mr B as if he'd been actively working during that period. He didnt think it was reasonable for 
Unum to impose a benefit limit on Mr B, when it hadnt been paying any benefit for over a 
year of the five-year period. On that basis, he recommended that Unum should reinstate Mr 
Bs claim, backdated to the point the claim had been terminated and to pay each monthly 
benefit, together with interest.
And the investigator also felt that Unums handling of the claim had caused Mr B some 
distress and inconvenience. So he recommended that Unum should also pay Mr B £200 
compensation.
Unum disagreed. It maintained that the five-year limited period ran from the date the 
deferred period ended, regardless of whether any benefit had been paid. While there was a 
period of zero pay, the claim had remained payable, in anticipation of the fact that Mr B 
could become absent again. Mr B had been paid for the full five-year period, whether by his 
employer or by Unum.
And it didnt agree to consider Mr B as having been actively at work, despite him having 
returned to an adjusted role. Thats because it said he wasnt carrying out the full material 
and substantial duties of his role, so it considered he didnt meet the relevant policy 
definition. It said it couldnt ignore the policy terms and conditions or make an exception.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Unum has treated Mr B fairly and Ill explain why.
First, I must make clear that this decision wont consider any information Mr B may have 
been given by his employer. Having done so, I dont think Unum has treated Mr B fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the policy terms and the circumstances of Mr Bs claim, to decide whether I think Unum has 
handled this claim fairly.
Mr Bs employers policy schedule shows that it opted to take out limited benefit cover with 
Unum. This means that under the terms of the insurance contract, Unum was only bound to 
pay benefit for a maximum period of five years. I appreciate Mr B says his employer told him 
that Unum would pay benefit until state retirement age, but I cant fairly hold Unum 
responsible for any information his employer gave him during the course of his employment 
or during redundancy negotiations.
Its common ground that Mr B became unfit for work in July 2017 and that Unum admitted an 
incapacity claim in January 2018, following the end of the deferred period. Had Unum paid 
incapacity benefit for the five-year period between January 2018 and January 2023, it seems 
it wouldve paid the claim in line with the policy terms.
However, Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of the policy, which form the basis 
of Mr Bs employers contract with Unum. Section 5.5. sets out limited benefit cover and 
says:
If a member becomes incapacitated and completes the deferred period, benefit will be 
subject to the selected limited benefit cover (if any).The schedule specifies whether limited benefit cover applies.
However, should such a member return to being actively at work with the employer before 
the limited benefit cover period ends and they then suffer a further period of incapacity, the 
following provisions shall apply in these circumstances.
Where the member had been actively working for a period of;
(a) Less than 4 weeks, then the linked benefit claims provisions will apply but the resumed 
payment of benefit will be limited so that the total period over which benefit is paid will not 
exceed the limited benefit cover period, or
(b) Between 4 weeks and 52 weeks, then the linked benefit claims provisions will apply and 
for the purposes of the resumed payment of benefit the previous period under which benefit 
was paid will be ignored and the entire limited benefit cover period will restate from the 
commencement of the further period of incapacity
(c) 52 weeks or more, the linked benefit claims provisions will not apply (my emphasis 
added).
The policy defines what Unum means by actively working as follows:
(The member) (a) has not received medical advice to refrain from work and is actively 
undertaking the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation, and
(b) is working the normal number of hours required by the employer, either at their normal 
place at work, or at a location for which they required to travel for business. 
In Mr Bs case, the evidence from Mr Bs employer shows that he returned to work on a full-
time basis in January 2018 and continued to work on a full-time basis until he left 
employment in October 2019. Its clear then that Mr B returned to work for more than 52 
weeks. It was following the end of Mr Bs employment that Unum began to pay incapacity 
benefit. Prior to his redundancy, as Mr B was receiving his full salary, no benefit was payable 
under the policy terms. 
Both the employers evidence and Mr Bs account demonstrate that his work duties 
necessarily had to change when he returned to work. He wasnt able to carry things and 
some adjustments had to be made. Accordingly, its possible that Mr B wasnt undertaking 
the material and substantial duties of his insured role. I think Mr B likely was carrying out the 
material and substantial duties of his insured role. But if Im wrong on that point and Mr B 
didnt meet Unums policy definition of actively at work, I accept on a strict and narrow 
interpretation of the policy terms, its liability would have ended in January 2023.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms, if I feel their application 
produces an unfair result. Thats the case here, as Ill go on to explore.
Mr B was working full-time. He says he undertook different duties and was sometimes paid 
overtime. While he may have had some reasonable adjustments made to enable him to 
return to work, he was entitled to and receiving his full salary from his employer. I dont think 
it makes any difference to Unum whether Mr B was carrying out his full pre-incapacity duties, 
or whether he was carrying out slightly amended ones. Thats because I think the impact on 
Unum was the same  Mr B was working in full-time employment and therefore, it wasnt 
paying any benefit. As such, I find it would be fair and reasonable to consider Mr Bs claim 
as if he was actively working. This means I dont think that the limited benefit provisions 
would apply to the circumstances of his claim between January 2018 and October 2019.In any event, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Unum to have relied on the five-year 
limited benefit period to terminate Mr Bs claim in January 2023, given it wasnt paying 
benefit for around 19 months of the five-year period. I appreciate that the claim remained 
open and that if Mr B had become unfit to work during that time, Unum would most likely 
have paid benefit. But as it wasnt paying benefit for a substantial proportion of the five-year 
period, I dont find its fair for Unum to conclude that Mr Bs benefit period ended in January 
2023. 
On that basis, I agree with the investigator that the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is for Unum to reinstate Mr Bs claim, backdated to the date it was terminated and 
to pay monthly benefit in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must 
also add interest to each monthly benefit payment at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the 
date each benefit payment would have been due to the date of settlement.
And I agree too that Mr B is likely to have been caused some trouble and upset as a result of 
Unums handling of his claim. I think he was likely to have been caused real worry when he 
learned that the claim had been terminated, especially as he was given very little notice of 
the termination. This meant he had little opportunity to consider his financial situation and to 
potentially make other arrangements. So I also find that Unum must pay Mr B £200 
compensation to reflect the impact its handling of the claim had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Unum Ltd to reinstate Mr Bs claim, backdated to the date it was terminated and to 
pay monthly benefit in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must also 
add interest to each monthly benefit payment at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date 
each benefit payment would have been due to the date of settlement.*
I also direct Unum Ltd to pay Mr B £200 compensation.
* If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman