DRN-2442902
The complaint
Mr A complains One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) is unfairly demanding 
payment from him for a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A applied for car insurance through One Call Insurances Services Limited (One Call) in 
late March 2019. He used his valid credit card to make full payment for the insurance. One 
Call didnt take the payment in time, so the payment authorisation lapsed. One Call set up 
the policy despite not having taken payment and the policy started on 3 April 2019. One Call 
tried to call Mr A to sort out payment but couldnt get through. As payment hadnt gone 
through, and One Call hadnt been able to get in touch with Mr A, they issued a cancellation 
notice in late April 2019. This asked Mr A to pay the money he owed for the policy. When Mr 
A received the cancellation notice, he assumed his car insurance had been cancelled and 
found alternative cover with effect from early May 2019. His policy wasnt cancelled in May 
2019 but was eventually cancelled it in October 2019. Throughout 2019, One Call continued 
to send letters to Mr A asking him to pay the money they say he owed for his time on cover.
Mr A complained to this service in November 2019. Our investigator told Mr A he should 
request a final response from One Call. This was sent on 27 January 2020. One Call upheld 
Mr As complaint. They offered Mr A a sincere apology for any inconvenience theyd caused 
him. They reduced the balance outstanding to reflect his time on cover, which was 3 April 
2019 until 7 May 2019. The cost of this cover would have been £20.60, based on the annual 
premium of £239.26. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. While she sympathised for the stress this 
situation may have caused him, she felt that One Call had made a fair and reasonable offer 
to him in their Final Response Letter dated 27 January 2020. She thought that it was 
reasonable for One Call to ask Mr A to pay £20.60 for his time on cover, as this had been 
good for him. Otherwise Mr A may have had no insurance on his car. Our investigator noted 
that One Call had made an error when theyd set up the policy without payment being taken. 
However, One Call had apologised for their mistake and had recalculated the amount Mr A 
owed so that it only reflected the time he was on cover.   
Mr A didnt accept this. He says he doesnt think he owes One Call anything. In fact, he 
thinks One Call owe him for failing to provide insurance and for forcing him to rearrange 
cover for his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point Mr A made, although I have read everything both 
he and One Call sent us. Instead Ill focus on the key issues he raised.
First, I will look at whether I think it is fair and reasonable for One Call to charge Mr A £20.60 
for his time on cover. One Call says that Mr A contacted them through their live chat facility 
on 3 May 2019 about his policy. They say Mr A refused to supply payment as he claimed 
One Call were being fraudulent in voiding the payment and trying to request it again. One 
Call tried to contact Mr A again on 29 May 2019 but were again unable to reach him. They 
sent out another e-mail, letter and text on 31 May 2019 warning him that his policy would be 
cancelled if he didnt make the payment. One Call sent additional letters and e-mails on the 
27 and 29 September 2019 that they say gave Mr A enough notice and time to arrange 
payment for the policy. Finally, One Call tried to call Mr A on 3 October 2019 but they 
couldnt get through. So cover was cancelled on 4 October 2019. Mr A says One Call forced 
him to rearrange cover for his car. But I think the above shows that One Call took reasonable 
steps to contact Mr A so that he could stay covered through them.
Mr A spoke to One Call on 14 October 2019 and let them know that he had taken alternative 
cover from 7 May 2019. So One Call asked for a certificate of insurance so they could 
backdate the original policy. One Call received this on 23 December 2019. This allowed 
them to re-calculate the amount they say Mr A owed them for his time on cover. Once One 
Call had received Mr As complaint, the balance was re-calculated further as a gesture of 
goodwill. One Call asked Mr A to pay £20.60, which covered only the time on risk from 3 
April 2019 to 7 May 2019.
One Call have told this service that the reason for the delay in cancelling the policy was 
because they were trying to ensure Mr A remained insured. I feel that as Mr A didnt have 
cover elsewhere its fair for One Call to charge him for the time on cover. I know Mr A 
doesnt think he used the policy. But Im persuaded that he was on cover with One Call for a 
little over a month. I know Mr A says he wasnt provided with insurance. But he was on cover 
for the period between 3 April 2019 and 7 May 2019. So the insurer was and is at risk of a 
claim being made. Even now potentially a third party could put in a claim. Therefore I think 
its fair and reasonable for One Call to charge Mr A for the cost of the cover he received 
between 3 April 2019 and 7 May 2019. This is £20.60. 
Next, I will look at whether One Call are responsible for the trouble and inconvenience Mr A 
has gone through. Both Mr A and One Call have had to take a lot of time and effort to try to 
resolve what One Call have accepted was their initial mistake. I understand that this may 
have been stressful and time consuming for Mr A. However, there were several opportunities 
for this issue to have been resolved much earlier. For example, if Mr A had been persuaded 
to make the payment for his insurance when he spoke to One Call through their live chat 
facility on 3 May 2019. Clearly One Call didnt provide a perfect service. But they apologised 
for this in their letter of 27 January 2020. I feel that One Call took reasonable steps to 
resolve the problems theyd caused through not initially taking payment, without causing Mr 
A to be uninsured. So I dont think One Call should pay Mr A compensation for his trouble 
and inconvenience.
Finally, Mr A has asked that the payment demands One Call have been sending him stop. 
Mr A owes £20.60. Ive already said its fair for One Call to charge him £20.60 for his time on 
cover. So Im not going to interfere with its attempts to make him pay that amount.
As this is a complaint about the cancellation of insurance, I have checked who has been 
recorded as cancelling the insurance. When taking out insurance consumers are asked if 
theyve had a policy cancelled by an insurer. If they have it can limit the firms willing to 
insure. I can confirm that this hasnt been recorded as cancelled by the insurer, so Mr A 
shouldnt be affected by this for future cover.
I can see that Mr A feels strongly that One Call havent treated him fairly. I understand that 
he may find this response disappointing. But having looked at all the details of this case I 
dont think One Call should be asked to do more than they have already agreed to do. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman