DRN-4171202
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc are holding him liable for payments made using his 
credit card account which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr P holds a credit card with Lloyds and his 
wife (Mrs P) is an additional cardholder. Mr P reported around 20 transactions to Lloyds as 
unauthorised. 
The payments all took place in December 2022, some were made using Mr Ps card and 
others using Mrs Ps. Lloyds say the payments were authenticated through a combination of 
Chip and PIN and contactless. The payments ranged in value from around £0.50 to £100 
and together they totalled just over £400. 
Lloyds investigated but declined to offer Mr P a refund. In summary they said there was no 
point of compromise for the card(s) or the PIN numbers. Being unhappy with this outcome 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. Mr P disagrees and remains adamant these were unauthorised 
transactions. He asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr P, so Ill explain why. 
I accept that Mr Ps testimony has been consistent about the transactions he is disputing and 
that he has reported this to the police. But my role here is to remain impartial and to reach a 
fair and reasonable outcome based on all the available evidence. Clearly, I wasnt present 
when the disputed transactions took place, so I cant know with 100% certainty how they 
were made. But I must decide whether Lloyds concluding that Mr P most likely authorised 
the payments he is disputing, based on the information available to them, is fair. 
Ive seen the technical evidence from Lloyds which shows that several of the disputed 
transactions were made using Chip and PIN and others were made using the contactless 
facility of the card(s). I find this to be persuasive evidence and I think its most likely this 
means that Mr and Mrs Ps physical cards were present at the time(s) the transactions were 
made. And that the PIN was required for at least some of the payments. 
Mr Ps testimony is that both he and Mrs P have had possession of their respective cards 
throughout and that no-one knows their PIN numbers. Given this, its difficult to understand 
how the payments could have been made without Mr Ps knowledge or authority. I also have 
to keep in mind that the pattern of spending doesnt match what is typically seen with 
unauthorised card use. Usually, if a third party has somehow obtained a card and PIN, they 
will quickly spend the available credit to maximise their gain before the card is reported as 
lost or stolen. But here, the transactions were generally of low value and didnt use all the 
available credit. They were also spread out over more than two weeks. It seems implausible 
that a third party would have been able to have taken and replaced the cards on numerous 
occasions without discovery. Or that they would have taken the risk to do so, particularly 
when making predominantly low value payments of £0.50 and £1.50. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I cant say the conclusion Lloyds reached was 
unreasonable. And whilst I understand why this may seem unsatisfactory to Mr P, there isnt 
a reasonable basis upon which I can require Lloyds to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman