DRN-3306172
The complaint
Ms K complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Hitachi) reported incorrect information on 
her credit file.
What happened
In February 2016 Ms K purchased some flooring from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Hitachi. The cost of the flooring was £1608.66 with monthly repayments 
of £40.21 over 36 months.
In March 2017 Ms K experienced financial difficulties. A payment plan was agreed under 
which Ms K made nominal payments for 12 months.
In September 2017 Hitachi passed the account to a third party who reported on Ms Ks credit 
file.
In July 2021 Ms K contacted Hitachi to complain about the information reported on her credit 
file. Hitachi incorrectly advised Ms K that her account had been defaulted. Upon realising 
that it had incorrectly advised Ms K, Hitachi offered her compensation of £20.
Ms K wasnt happy with the level of compensation. She said that because Hitachi had been 
incorrectly reporting on her credit file for several years, shed been affected financially. Ms K 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Hitachi hadnt recorded a default 
on the account prior to the sale of the account to the third party. She also said that Hitachi 
had made an error when it advised Ms K that the account had defaulted, and that the 
compensation offered for giving Ms K incorrect information was fair.
Ms K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that when Ms K experienced financial difficulties she agreed a payment plan with 
Hitachi. Theres nothing to suggest that Ms K didnt make the agreed payments. Whilst the 
payment plan was ongoing, Hitachi transferred the account to a third party.
This complaint is against Hitachi. So Ive focussed on whether Hitachi acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its handling of the account. If Ms K is unhappy about how the third party 
handled the account, she would need to raise a complaint against that company.
The relevant guidance says that where a lender agrees to a  reduced payment arrangement, 
the arrangement  will be shown on the consumers credit file. If the payments under the 
arrangement are less than the payments due under the agreement, arrears will accrue but 
the lender shouldnt default the account.
In this case, I cant see any evidence to suggest that Hitachi defaulted the account. So 
although Hitachi advised Ms K that it had defaulted the account, this advice was incorrect. 
Im therefore unable to say that Hitachi acted unfairly or in breach of relevant guidelines. 
However, it did provide incorrect information to Ms K, which it has acknowledged.
As Ive already explained, the account was transferred to a third party in September 2017. I 
havent seen the account history so Im unable to say whether Ms K maintained payments. 
Ms K has provided information which suggests that the third party reported a default. Im 
unable to comment further on this, because this complaint is against Hitachi, who isnt 
responsible for what the third party has or hasnt reported on Ms Ks credit file.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Hitachi has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. I think the compensation offered to Ms K for the incorrect advice is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman