DRN-2399297
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the final offer of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC has made to her to 
settle her complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
credit card. 
Ms C thinks Lloyds should honour the higher offer which it made in its initial response to her 
complaint, which Lloyds now says was made to her in error.
What happened
In 1998, Ms C was sold a PPI policy when she opened a credit card account with Lloyds. 
The policy was cancelled in 2003, but the card account remained open until 2011.
Ms C complained to Lloyds that it had mis-sold the PPI policy to her. Lloyds responded to 
Ms Cs complaint in a letter to her dated 5th August 2019. Although it didnt accept that the 
policy had been mis-sold, it said that it was offering Ms C £1,121.06 in compensation 
because of the excess commission it earned on the sale. And it said Ms C would receive a 
cheque for this amount in the post within the following 28 days.
This compensation offer was made by Lloyds because, when it sold the PPI policy to Ms C, 
it didnt inform her that it would receive a commission and a share of any related profits from 
the insurance company providing this cover. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
previously determined that the non-disclosure of commission and profit share of more than 
50% of a customers PPI premium is deemed to create an Unfair Relationship. Lloyds said 
that the total undisclosed commission and profit share in the sale of the policy to Ms C sale 
was more than 50%. So it offered to repay the additional costs that she had incurred on her 
card account because of this, together with 8% interest for any times when these additional 
costs had caused her to be out of pocket.
Eight days later, on 13th August 2019, Lloyds wrote a further letter to Ms C about her 
complaint saying she should disregard its previous letter to her because this contained an 
error. And it now offered Ms C a revised compensation figure of £414.13, which was in line 
with the supporting breakdown of the offer which was contained in Appendix A of the original 
offer letter she received on 5th August 2019.
Ms C wasnt happy with the downward revision which Lloyds had made to its original offer. 
She thought Lloyds should honour the original offer of £1,121.06 which it had made to her 
and complained to this service about the change. Lloyds subsequently offered Ms C £75 for 
the trouble and upset it may have caused her through its error and the resultant reduction 
in compensation offered.
Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds revised offer fairly compensated Ms C for the 
commission and profit share that it had received above 50%. And she thought the additional 
£75 which Lloyds was now prepared to offer Ms C for the trouble and upset caused by its 
error was also fair. So she didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more.
Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C is complaining about the way in which Lloyds has revised the offer it originally made to 
her following her PPI mis-sale complaint. So, in this decision I wont be looking at what 
happened when the PPI sale took place, or at Ms Cs circumstances then. I will only be 
looking at whether the way the revised offer was calculated by Lloyds is fair and whether it is 
fair for Lloyds to make the resultant change to its original offer to Ms C.
 
Lloyds has offered to compensate Ms C for the commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums she paid. To calculate the offer Lloyds needed to re-
work the credit card account and offer to pay back to Ms C the difference between what she 
owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds also needed to offer to pay Ms C 8% simple interest 
if Ms C paid off her credit card at some point.
Lloyds have provided full details of the way in which it has calculated the £414.13 it now 
says Ms C is due as compensation for the non-disclosure of the commission and profit share 
it earned on the PPI sale. Ive reviewed these calculations and Im satisfied that the way that 
they have been carried out is fair and the amount offered hasnt been understated.
Ive next considered whether it is fair for Lloyds to make a revised offer to Ms C, rather than 
agreeing to honour the higher amount that it originally offered her in error.
I fully appreciate that Ms C is disappointed and upset by the error which Lloyd made. But in 
considering her complaint I need to decide whether Ms C has lost out as a result of the error. 
This might be the case, for example, if it was some time before the error had been 
discovered and Ms C had already received and spent the compensation payment.
In this case, it was only eight days after receiving her original compensation offer letter that 
Ms C was advised by Lloyds that the offer in this letter was incorrect and should be 
disregarded. And it doesnt appear that Ms C had received and banked the incorrect amount 
within this eight-day period. I appreciate what Ms C has said about having budgeted to 
receive the higher amount from Lloyds after receiving their first letter. But I dont think it 
would be fair for me to conclude that Ms C has suffered actual financial loss because of 
Lloyds error. So I dont think Lloyds was acting unfairly in correcting the error which it 
inadvertent made in this letter.
But Lloyds has now offered to pay Ms C an additional £75 for the trouble and upset that its 
error may have caused her. And I think this is fair in the circumstances.
In summary, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that this offer has been calculated fairly. I also 
think that Lloyds has acted fairly in making a revised offer to Ms C. Im not persuaded that 
Ms C has suffered any financial loss from the error Lloyds made, so I dont think it needs to 
reinstate its original offer to her. I think the additional £75 is fair compensation for the trouble 
and upset she has been caused.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I think how Lloyds Bank PLC has calculated the 
compensation it offered Ms C for the excess commission it received on the PPI it sold to her 
is fair. This means Im not directing it to pay the higher amount to Ms C which it first offered 
in error to her for this.  But I think the £75 Lloyds Bank PLC has offered to pay Ms C for the 
trouble and upset caused to her by its error is fair in all the circumstances of this case.
So if Ms C has not yet received payment of Lloyds revised compensation offer and its 
additional trouble and upset offer, a cheque(s) for these amounts should now be reissued 
to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman