DRN-3470996
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refused to increase his overdraft limit and 
failed to support him when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr K complained to HSBC regarding overdraft interest charges on his account and that it 
failed to support him when in financial difficulty. 
HSBC said it did offer support during the pandemic and referred Mr K to a website that could 
offer further assistance.  
Mr K was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that there wasnt 
enough on Mr Ks bank statements to show that HSBC ought to have known Mr K was in 
financial difficulty and didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr K has experienced and see if HSBC has done anything 
wrong. If it has, wed expect HSBC to put the Mr K in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. 
So where a business increased or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In coming to my decision Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt 
treat Mr K fairly and reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr K unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr Ks statements I cant see 
anything to suggest that HSBC ought to have realised he might have been experiencing 
financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
I accept that Mr K was using his overdraft facility and more so during the pandemic. But 
while Mr K has referred to being unable to pay his bills its clear that this account wasnt 
being used solely for his day-to-day financial affairs as it looks like the majority of 
transactions were debit card purchases. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective 
value judgements over Mr Ks expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of 
non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions going from the account. 
Furthermore, Mr K was able to bring the account into credit on occasions before once again 
going on to use his overdraft to make debit card transactions.  I accept neither of these 
things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr K wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty.
It is also worth mentioning that during the period Mr K says he was in financial difficulty 
HSBC didnt charge Mr K any interest or fees for the use of his overdraft facility. So even if I 
did think there were obvious signs of financial difficulty, its unlikely I would be looking to ask 
HSBC to do anything more as it had already done what Id have expected.
Mr K is also unhappy HSBC declined to increase his overdraft limit. Ultimately, what credit 
services a bank offers and under what criteria it is willing to lend is a commercial decision. 
And it isnt something for me to get involved with. I cannot make a bank change its systems 
or processes such as how it reaches its decision to lend and to who. That said, while Im not 
looking at HSBC lending criteria per sa, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
K if it was shown that it didnt reasonably assess Mr Ks ability to repay what he wished to 
borrow. 
But HSBC wasnt able to do this as Mr K didnt want to complete an application for an 
increase in his overdraft limit. So again I cant say HSBC did anything wrong  HSBC has an 
obligation to make sure any lending it approves is affordable and it cant do this without Mr K 
submitting an application and allowing HSBC to assess Mr Ks ability to repay what he 
wished to borrow. 
So overall and having considered everything I cant say that HSBC have done anything 
wrong. There were no obvious signs of financial difficulty showing in Mr Ks account activity 
and HSBC hadnt charged Mr K any interest during the period he says he was in financial 
difficulty. 
I understand Mr K is disappointed that HSBC wouldnt increase his overdraft limit but HSBC 
is under no obligation to do this without Mr K going through the application process and 
allowing HSBC to carry out proper affordability checks. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman