DRN-3944493
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she was financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (who Ill call Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I dont think Moneybarn need to take any action here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
The other relevant circumstances would include the age and mileage of the car when 
supplied. Here the car was already nine years old and had completed over 109,000 miles, so 
I think a reasonable person would expect there to be quite significant signs of wear and tear.
Miss S has explained that she had problems with the car from the start. Shes provided a 
couple of receipts to evidence these problems. The first shows that an oil change was 
completed in early March 2022. I dont think that suggests there was anything wrong with the 
car. I think oil changes will be required from time to date as I think its fair to consider oil as a 
consumable item.
The second invoice isnt dated but as the cars mileage hasnt increased by much I think its 
likely the work detailed in the invoice was done in March or April 2022. The invoice explains 
that its been necessary to replace a wheel screw at a cost of £11.50 and that the air and oil 
filters have been changed. Theres a note that details the findings of a diagnostic check. 
Those findings include, a fault code that appears to be related to the crankshaft, and a 
finding that the car requires an offside hub due to the thread in one hole being cross 
threaded and the wheel nut fitting wrong. The diagnostic goes on to explain that radiator 
brackets are broken, a near side front spring is broken, and an offside shock is leaking. A 
note on the invoice says:
customer taking back to garage that they bought it from OSF hub required due to thread.
Miss S says she was told she had to get that work done before Moneybarn would consider 
allowing her to return the car, Ive not been able to identify any evidence she was told that 
from the information weve currently been provided. But even if Im wrong about that, I dont 
think I have evidence that the issues listed on the invoice were repaired. Ive not seen a 
repair invoice for instance. Ive only seen the diagnostic and that diagnostic explains that 
Miss S is returning the car to the dealership to have the work completed.
And even if that work was completed, I dont think theres enough in the diagnostic 
description to suggest the work identified wouldnt fairly be considered to be normal wear 
and tear on a car of this age and mileage. For instance, I think a reasonable person would 
expect suspension components to fail over time through normal wear and tear.
Miss S has explained that when she got the car it couldnt be started as the battery was flat. 
Ive not seen further corroboration of that or of the Engine Management Light issue Miss S 
has explained she was told had illuminated because of the battery failure. And, even if I had, 
I dont think a battery failure on a car of that age and mileage would be unexpected.
The car was provided on a conditional basis. It would only become Miss Ss property when, 
and if, she paid the Total Amount Payable under the agreement. So, it was Moneybarn who 
needed to register the car with the DVLA, and Moneybarn who would have the vehicle 
registration documents. 
Overall, whilst I have sympathy with the situation Miss S has found herself in, I dont think I 
have sufficient evidence that the car she was supplied with was of unsatisfactory quality and 
Im therefore not asking Moneybarn to take any action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman