DRN-2361839
The complaint
Mrs S complaint is that she has experienced issues with the handbrake on the car she 
acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS). Although an adjustment was made the issue was ongoing and she 
doesnt feel safe driving the car.
What happened
Mrs S entered into a HPA to acquire a new car which was delivered in early March 2019. 
Shortly after acquisition she raised concerns about the brakes. She said there was a burning 
smell and the handbrake wasnt working properly. The car was returned to the supplying 
dealership in April for issues with the handbrake and a recall to be addressed.
Mrs S raised her complaint with VWFS. VWFS issued a final response letter in May 2019 
saying that the handbrake had been adjusted and offered her £150 compensation for the 
upset the issue had caused. Mrs S then contacted VWFS to say the car had gone to a 
garage and an issue with the braking system had been confirmed. VWFS said this would 
need to be confirmed by an approved retailer. It said that Mrs S had said she had been told 
by an approved retailer that there wasnt an issue. Given the issues raised by Mrs S and the 
conflicting evidence about whether there was a fault, VWFS said it would cover the cost of 
an independent inspection.
Mrs S raised her complaint with this service. She said she didnt feel safe in the car. Our 
investigator didnt think that there was enough evidence to show that there was an ongoing 
fault and recommended that the independent inspection take place. Mrs S needed to have 
this arranged for a weekend and in December 2019, our investigator provided details of a 
company that could do this.
An independent inspection wasnt arranged but Mrs S had a local garage carry out some 
work in February 2020. She wanted the cost of this refunded along with further 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that in order to say that VWFS 
needed to take further action she would need confirmation of the problem. This hadnt been 
provided and so she couldnt say that VWFS should pay for the repairs Mrs S had carried 
out or pay compensation.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view. She said that she had misunderstood and 
thought the inspection would need to be paid for by her upfront and she didnt have the 
money. She said that she was happy for the car to be inspected. She said she didnt have 
the invoice for the work she had undertaken. She reiterated that she had raised her 
concerns shortly after acquisition and felt that she hadnt been assisted in this process. 
Mrs S also said that the issue with the handbrake hadnt been resolved and she felt the car 
was dangerous.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs S entered into a HPA with VWFS to acquire a new car and it was reasonable 
that she would expect it to be free from faults including minor defects.
Mrs S raised concerns about the breaking system shortly after acquisition and the car 
was returned to the supplying dealer in April 2019. The vehicle history stated that the 
handbrake was adjusted and tested. I also understood that there was a recall that 
needed to be addressed.
Mrs S contacted VWFS about the issue. At that time (response letter dated 3 May 
2019) VWFS understood the issue had been rectified and it offered her £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience she had been caused. I found this 
reasonable.
Mrs S said the issue wasnt resolved. For VWFS to be required to take further action 
I needed to establish that there was a fault present at the point of supply that hadnt 
been resolved through the April repair. 
VWFS had offered to cover the cost of an independent inspection but there had been 
issues arranging this. There was also a concern raised about other repairs that had 
taken place. However, the garage confirmed that it hadnt carried out further work on 
the handbrake.
Overall, I found that the next step was for an independent inspection to take place. Based on 
the outcome of this I noted that further action might be required.
Following my provisional decision, an inspection took place on 19 October 2020. This 
concluded that although the handbrake functioned once applied correctly it had been 
overadjusted making it difficult to apply. It also said that this issue could account for the 
harsh operation of the footbrake. The report said the issue would have been present from 
the point of supply and recommended that the vehicle be returned for the handbrake to be 
adjusted to a suitable level. Following the adjustment, it recommended that it be checked on 
a MOT brake tester to confirm that it has been returned to a condition that allows it to 
operate within minimum MOT standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S entered into a HPA with VWFS to acquire a new car. Under the regulations, VWFS 
can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car 
was new when Mrs S acquired it, I find it reasonable that she would expect it to be free from 
faults including minor defects.
Under the regulations, if a fault is found within the first 30 days then Mrs S would have a 
short term right to reject the car. I havent evidence that she raised her concerns within that 
period, however based on the notes it appears that Mrs S was offered a repair which is also 
a reasonable remedy.
Following the repair, Mrs S says the issue remained and so I find it reasonable that this was 
investigated further. There were delays in the arrangement of an inspection report, but this 
took place in October 2020. While the report found that the car was fit for purpose it noted issues with how the handbrake had been adjusted as well as the harsh operation of the 
footbrake. While it confirmed the handbrake did work when applied correctly it noted that it 
was hard to apply. 
I understand the issues have caused Mrs S a great deal of stress and I appreciate her 
concerns about driving the car. I also note the comments she has made about the issue not 
being accepted until now. VWFS has, based on the independent inspection report, said the 
car should be taken to a Volkswagen dealership for the adjustment to the handbrake to take 
place and the footbrake to be checked. As this reflects the recommendations of the 
inspection report, I find this a reasonable remedy. 
Putting things right
As VWFS has offered, based on the recommendations of the independent inspection report, 
Mrs S car should be returned for the handbrake to be adjusted to a suitable level and the 
footbrake to be checked at no cost to Mrs S. VWFS has said this can happen at any 
Volkswagen dealership and should be covered by the manufacturers warranty. 
The work on Mrs S car should be undertaken at a time convenient to her and once the 
adjustment has taken place it should, as recommended in the inspection report, be checked 
on a MOT brake tester to confirm that it is returned to a condition that allows it to operate 
within minimum MOT standards.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should take the actions 
set out above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman