DRN-2528353
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very failed to set 
up a direct debit on her running credit account. She says this resulted in late payments fees 
being applied. And adverse entries on her credit file. She wants the charges to be refunded. 
And the late payment markers removed from her credit file.
What happened
Miss M tells us shes tried on several occasions since 2018 to set up a direct debit to pay her 
Very account each month.  She says that Very keeps telling her that its unable to do so. And 
that its offered a variety of reasons which might be causing this including that her account 
isnt one which can be used for direct debits. None of which she accepts. Miss M explains 
that the account she tried to use for Very has several other direct debits in place. And that 
her address on her bank account matches that she has registered with Very. Miss M says 
that as a result of not being able to make payments through a direct debit shes occasionally 
forgotten the date they were due. And that this has led to her being charged late payment 
fees. And her credit file having late payments recorded. She doesnt feel this is fair as she 
says shes done everything possible to set up the direct debit.
Very told us that it accepted that Miss M had made numerous attempts to set up the direct 
debit. It said that when these attempts failed its system had displayed a message indicating 
that the direct debit set up had not been successful. And that she should contact her bank. It 
said it was satisfied that Miss M ought to have known the direct debit hadnt been set up. 
And made other arrangements to make the required payments.
Our investigator said shed checked with Miss Ms bank and had been informed that several 
other direct debits with other businesses were operating without issue. She inferred from this 
that the problem lay with Very. She thought it should pay £100 to Miss M for the 
inconvenience this had caused. But she didnt think that it need remove late payment 
markers. She found that Miss M ought to have realised the direct debit hadnt been set up. 
And that she should have made alternative arrangements to pay.
Very accepted the investigators view that it should pay £100 to Miss M for the 
inconvenience caused in her not being able to set up the direct debit on her account. But it 
said it wouldnt remove the charges or amend the credit file as the entries made were 
accurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss M has experienced the difficulty and frustration over being unable to set 
up a direct debit on her Very account. Such transactions are usually routine and I 
acknowledge the inconvenience this is causing.
Miss M has a running credit account with Very which  subject to credit limits  allows her to 
purchase items from it. The agreement also permits different methods of payment and 
variable amounts. So that a customer can choose  subject to a minimum payment  how 
much each month to repay. And dependent upon how much is repaid, interest may be 
applied to any outstanding balance. The agreement also provides for a date each month by 
which minimum payments must be met. And a late fee may be charged if the payment isnt 
received by this date.
In these circumstances a variable direct debit is handy. Subject to the required funds being 
available in the account from which payment is taken and instructions about what 
percentage of the balance to repay, it automatically makes the payment required. So 
provided there are sufficient funds  the customer cant forget to make the payments.
Miss Ms complaint can be characterised as comprising of two distinct but nonetheless 
related issues. 
Firstly, the failure of Very to set up the direct debit. And secondly the charges that have been 
applied and late markers recorded on her credit file when payments havent been made on 
time.
Where information unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Very issued a final response letter in July 2020. Amongst the contents of that letter it said 
that in relation to attempts made by Miss M to set up direct debits in 2018 and 2019 its 
system had shown that her account was not a valid account from which it could set up a 
direct debit. In respect of two attempts in early 2020 it said the account number used by Miss 
M didnt match the account number it held.
With Miss Ms permission, our investigator contacted Miss Ms bank. That business 
confirmed that the account on which the direct debit with Very would be set up, is already 
successfully operating several direct debits with other businesses. 
Ive also checked Miss Ms address and this is up to date and matches the information which 
Miss M has supplied to Very and her bank. And the account number also appears to match.
As theres no doubt that Miss M has managed to set up other direct debits on the same 
account its not obvious why the attempts with Very keep failing. It had also been suggested 
that it might be due to Miss Ms bank not reporting to the credit reference agency used by 
Very. But Ive checked and Miss Ms bank states it reports to three such agencies including 
that used by Very.
Whilst Im not able to say for sure why the Very direct debit cant be set up, the strong 
likelihood is that the issue is with Verys systems. On the information provided, its the only 
business which appears unable to successfully set up a direct debit for Miss M.
Miss M has recently sent me a screen shot which shows that when she tried to set up the 
direct debit the same message appears as before (indicating the attempt at set up has 
failed). So the problem is ongoing and apparently beyond Very to resolve. 
Whilst the direct debit failure is itself frustrating and inconvenient, possibly of more concern 
is the contributory effect this has had on Miss Ms credit file. She acknowledges shes 
occasionally forgotten the dates when payments are due. And this has led to Very recording 
late payment markers on her credit file.I accept that were all prone to occasional forgetfulness so I understand its easy for a date to 
slip by unnoticed. Having said that I also have to acknowledge that it remains the 
responsibility of the customer to make payments on time. But as the present situation has 
been ongoing for a couple of years, Id have hoped that Miss M mightve been able to find an 
alternative solution which would suit her needs. There are a number of different means of 
payments offered by Very. 
If Very chooses to report account details to a credit reference agency its required to ensure 
that the information it provides is both fair and accurate. This means that if payments are 
made later than is contractually due, that fact may be recorded. But Id expect Very to also 
give some thought - in these unusual circumstances - to whether it was fair. 
As theres been sufficient time for Miss M to make other arrangements regarding payment I 
cant say its unreasonable for Very to continue to make reports of the account conduct. It 
remains open to Miss M to have a notice of correction added to her credit file to give her 
explanation for these entries. And this would be seen by future prospective lenders.
Whilst it will be of little consolation to her, I share Miss Ms frustration in not being able to 
provide a definitive explanation as to why such a routine process is not working in this 
instance.
Very has offered a £100 due to the circumstances and the inconvenience caused to Miss M.  
I understand that Miss M is likely to be disappointed with this outcome  but given there 
currently doesnt seem to be anything else that can be done  Ive concluded that this is a 
fair and reasonable offer by which the complaint can be finally determined.
Putting things right
Very has made an offer to pay £100 to Miss M for the inconvenience caused by the failure to 
set up direct debits on her account. I think this is fair and reasonable. Very should make this 
payment  if it hasnt already done so  in full and final settlement of this complaint.  
My final decision
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very should pay Miss M £100 - in 
accordance with its offer - for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman