DRN-2499670
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt provide her with 
alternative accommodation while her claim was dealt with under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Hs neighbour had a fire in their home. The smoke and soot from the fire affected Miss 
Hs home. Miss H contacted Admiral to make an insurance claim. Admiral accepted the 
claim and carried out work to repair the damage. During this time, Miss H stayed with family 
elsewhere.
Miss H complained to Admiral because she said she should have been offered alternative 
accommodation under the terms of the policy. When Admiral replied, it said that it had 
offered Miss H alternative accommodation, which she had turned down. It said Miss H had 
then said she would stay with family and so it had paid her an allowance while the works 
took place.
Miss H complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that he 
hadnt seen evidence that Miss H was made fully aware of her rights under the policy. He 
said that Admiral should pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Admiral disagreed and said that Miss Hs home was habitable but it had agreed to pay her 
an allowance for her comfort to cover a six-month period. So, the complaint has been 
referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive looked at the records provided by Admiral and Miss H to see what these showed about 
the discussions that took place. Having carefully reviewed what happened in this case, 
although Im aware this will disappoint Miss H, my current view is that I dont think Admiral 
did anything wrong.
Following the fire, Admiral visited Miss Hs home and wrote a report. The report described 
what happened on the day of the fire and said The Insured reported to Admiral  AA 
[Alternative Accommodation] declined. In the Alternative Accommodation section, the 
report said Insured declined will review. 
Im aware that as part of Admiral looking at Miss Hs complaint that it put weight on her 
turning down alternative accommodation at the start of the claim. However, I dont agree that 
this showed whether there was a need for alternative accommodation during the claim. 
Circumstances can change, including as the extent of the works and level of disruption 
becomes more clear. I would therefore expect an insurer to keep under review whether the 
need for alternative accommodation changed, even if it was initially turned down. So Ive 
looked at what else happened during the claim.
A few weeks after the claim started, a meeting took place at Miss Hs home to discuss the 
works. The meeting was attended by Miss H, the surveyor and the contractor. The meeting 
minutes said:
Miss H has confirmed that the loss adjuster is moving her into alternative
accommodation for the duration of the works.
Miss H has confirmed that she would not be within the property during the entire course of 
the works
Following the meeting, Miss H emailed Admiral and said Ive  just met with contractor and 
surveyor, I will need to move in with the cats to my brothers. Can I claim for the stay?. 
Admiral replied the same day and said that it could arrange a payment of £600 per month for 
the duration of Miss Hs stay with her family.
Miss H emailed Admiral again the next day and said that as the works were only Monday to 
Friday that she hoped to move back into her home at weekends, but she would see how it 
went. Admiral replied and said that it would arrange the payment for the period of disruption. 
It then made a payment of £2,200, which was for the accommodation costs and a 
replacement rug and included a £250 deduction because of the insurance excess.
So, thinking about the above, although the minutes of the meeting referred to alternative 
accommodation, which would generally mean that the insurer arranged or paid for the 
policyholder to live somewhere like a hotel or in rented accommodation, Miss H contacted 
Admiral and said she was going to stay with her brother and asked if she could be paid an 
allowance. Admiral promptly confirmed the amount that it would pay and arranged for the 
payment to be made. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
About 10 days later, following receipt of the schedule of works, Miss H contacted Admiral to 
say that she wanted alternative accommodation, as it hadnt been made clear to her that she 
wouldnt be able to enter her home for six weeks or more whilst the repairs progressed. She 
said that her brothers home wasnt suitable for full time living for that length of time. She 
also said that if she had to pack everything and move out in line with the timings listed for the 
works to start, it wasnt enough notice.
Admiral replied the following day and said that it had spoken to the surveyors, who had 
confirmed with the contractors that they were aware Miss H wanted to remain in the property 
at weekends.
Miss H replied the same day and said that Admiral hadnt answered her question about 
accommodation. Admiral replied the next day and said that a cash settlement had been 
agreed for accommodation costs and that Miss H had advised that it wouldnt be acceptable 
if she wasnt able to return home at weekends. The contractor had confirmed it had no 
objections and, on that basis, this appeared to resolve the issue raised. Admiral said if this 
wasnt correct that Miss H should advise it of this.
Miss H told our investigator that she didnt reply to this email because she was under the 
impression that she couldnt complain as she had originally accepted the money.
The next day, the surveyors also wrote to Miss H and said that the works wouldnt 
commence until it had been confirmed that suitable arrangements had been made for Miss H 
and her animals to vacate the property during working hours.
The surveyors carried out a site visit the next day and then wrote a report that said:It has been confirmed with Miss H that [the contractors] will ensure that the
property is safe to access and habitable over the weekends, as Miss H has
confirmed that she will be returning to the property at the weekends.
Ive thought about the above. Miss H proactively contacted Admiral to say that she wanted 
alternative accommodation because of the period of time that she wouldnt be able to enter 
her home. Admiral confirmed to Miss H that she would be able to access her home at 
weekends. The email discussion described above took place over four days and I think that 
Admiral was prompt in replying to Miss Hs requirements and in trying to address her 
concerns.
Looking at all of the records, Admirals understanding seemed to be that Miss H wanted to 
be paid an allowance while she lived elsewhere and to have access to her home while the 
works were taking place. I havent seen anything that suggested Admiral would have been 
aware that Miss H wanted alternative accommodation even if she was able to access her 
home. So, I think that Admirals responses to Miss H were reasonable. This included when 
Miss H directly asked for alternative accommodation, as the request seemed to be based on 
her not having access to her home for several weeks. Admiral explained that she would 
have access to her home and Miss H didnt then ask about alternative accommodation 
again.
I accept that Miss H didnt follow up because she was under the impression that a cash 
settlement was all she was entitled to. I can see how she might have formed that view based 
on the email exchanges with Admiral. But, I havent seen any evidence that Admiral actually 
said that to Miss H. Admiral sent Miss H an email explaining its understanding of her 
requirements and invited her to respond if that understanding was wrong, but she didnt 
reply. So, I cant see that Admiral had any reason to think it needed to discuss anything 
further about accommodation or to think that Miss H was unhappy with how the issue had 
been dealt with.
So, thinking about the above, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint because I 
havent seen evidence to show that Admiral did anything wrong in how it dealt with Miss Hs 
accommodation issues during her claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 January 2021.
Admiral said that it accepted the findings.
Miss H said that she had been clear what her requirements were and that her brothers 
home wasnt suitable for full time living. She said that Admiral replied and said she had 
accepted a cash settlement. Miss H said that she felt this behaviour was of a bullying nature, 
not a helpful one. She re-sent the emails.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision that I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ive looked at the comments made by Miss H, but these dont cause me to 
change my view. As part of my making my provisional decision, I had already read the 
emails that Miss H referred to. I took into account what they said and how the email 
discussion ended, as well as the tone of Admirals emails. I think that Admirals emails explained its understanding of what Miss H required and invited 
her to reply if this was wrong. Miss H didnt reply. I didnt read anything that caused me to 
think that Admiral was doing anything other than responding to the points that Miss H had 
raised. I think Miss Hs concerns were looked into promptly and that the tone of the emails 
was professional
I remain of the view that I cant see that Admiral had any reason to think Miss H was 
unhappy with what had been agreed about the accommodation issue or that, following the 
email exchange, she still required alternative accommodation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman