DRN-3212918
The complaint
Miss B, helped by a representative, complained about Ikano Bank AB (publ). 
Miss B took out a loan for work at her home, but the work wasnt done properly. Miss B told 
Ikano not to release the money to the workmen, but it did, and then chased Miss B for 
repayment.
As an outcome, Miss B wanted the loan balance to be written off, and compensation for the 
stress, trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
Miss B took out a loan with Ikano for work at her home. When the work took place, Miss B 
realised there were problems, which the builders agreed to fix, but failed to do so. In a phone 
call, Ikano asked Miss B whether everything was ok to pay. Miss B said no, because she 
wasnt happy with the work. She said the Ikano adviser said theyd put a note on the system. 
Neither Miss B nor Ikano put this in writing.
Ikano released the money to the workmen, despite Miss Bs instruction not to do so. Miss B 
instructed surveyors to inspect the damage that the workmen had done to her property. The 
dispute continued for a long time  nearly three years according to Miss Bs representatives. 
At some point Ikano asked for a further survey, but the reasons arent clear, nor is it clear 
whether this took place.  
Meanwhile, Ikano was chasing Miss B for payment on the loan. Miss Bs representatives 
said that in January 2019, Ikano told Miss B that it would write off the loan  but four weeks 
later continued to chase her for payment.
Miss B, helped by representatives, complained to this service in February 2021. She asked 
for the loan balance to be written off, and compensation because Ikano had harassed her for 
so long. Meanwhile the state of her property was that it was almost not habitable. She also 
asked for compensation for the physical, mental and emotional stress, trouble and upset 
Ikano had caused her. 
Ikano said it hadnt lodged a complaint from Miss B and hadnt issued a final response, but it 
accepted that this service could consider the complaint. In August 2021, Ikano told this 
service that it could see that it had decided to write off the loan balance, but had never put 
the offer to Miss B. 
The investigator issued his view. He said that Ikanos offer to write off the loan balance went 
part way towards resolving Miss Bs complaint, but he also considered Ikano should pay 
compensation. He said Ikano could have saved Miss B a lot of time and stress by writing off 
the loan earlier. And it had continued to chase Miss B for repayment of the loan. He 
considered that as well as writing off the loan, Ikano should pay Miss B £400 compensation.
Ikano didnt agree. It said that overall it agreed with what the investigator had said, but it 
thought that compensation of £400 was unfairly enriching the consumer from this 
experience. So the case was sent for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I asked both sides for much more information about the events of this case. Miss Bs 
representatives sent some limited information after wed chased for a reply, but Ikano didnt 
reply, despite chasing it for a reply. This means that the information I have about what 
happened throughout the whole history of this loan is very limited. So Ive taken my decision 
on the information I do have, and what I think is most likely to have happened in all the 
circumstances of the case.
In Miss Bs representatives reply to my request for more information, it asked for 
compensation for the legal costs shed incurred.
First, Ikano has agreed to write off the balance of Miss Bs loan. I think thats a fair and 
pragmatic step here in the circumstances. This should include all interest and charges, so 
its closed with a nil balance. If any adverse reports have been sent to credit reference 
agencies, these should be removed. Miss Bs representatives will wish to check her credit 
file to ensure this has not been affected.
Its also clear, however, that Miss B has suffered significant distress and inconvenience. I 
sympathise with her, as its clear that shes been living in very upsetting circumstances for 
several years because of what happened, and her property still hasnt been repaired.
I accept that, to a large extent, the people at fault are the workmen who did such a poor job 
and caused further damage to Miss Bs property. I understand that unfortunately they are 
now in administration, which must make recompense harder for Miss B to obtain. 
But its also very clear that Ikano added considerably to Miss Bs stress, in many ways. It 
paid the unsatisfactory workmen when Miss B had told it not to. This is one area where more 
evidence would have helped, and its unfortunate that Miss B didnt confirm this in writing. 
But Ikano hasnt provided evidence to counter Miss Bs assertion that she specifically told 
Ikano not to pay the workmen. Miss B has been very clear and consistent in her recollections 
of this, so in the absence of any information to the contrary, I accept Miss Bs word that this 
is more likely than not what happened.
Whatever the detail of the events in the years since the loan was taken out  and I have very 
little information  its undeniable that this has dragged on for nearly three years. Ikano 
accepted that it had decided to write off the loan, but failed to inform Miss B. Instead, it 
continued to send chasing letters, some of which Ive seen, and Miss B has also said she 
had chasing phone calls and texts. I find that Ikano should have reached a resolution on this 
case some years before Miss B contacted this service.
Given the distress caused by several years of being chased for the loan which she had told 
Ikano not to pay, I do not agree with Ikanos latest statement that it believes £400 
compensation would be unfairly enriching Miss B. Writing the loan off is a helpful step, but 
she has also been caused some significant distress and inconvenience by how Ikano has 
handled this. So for this, I think its fair that Ikano compensates her.Finally, as Ive noted above, when I asked for more information, Miss Bs representative 
asked for compensation for her legal costs. But, as a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts I dont think itd be fair for this service to do that here. I can only consider Miss Bs 
complaint about Ikano here and she was always able to raise her complaint with it and with 
this service at no cost. I can see why Miss B took the legal action she did here in pursuing a 
solution here  but much of this relates to the workmen themselves and what happened 
rather than costs I think itd be fair for Ikano to have to be liable for. In any event, I think that 
writing off the debt here and paying Miss B the compensation puts things right in all the 
circumstances of this dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
- write off the balance of Miss Bs loan, including all interest, fees and charges it may 
have debited to the account;
- remove any adverse markers it may have put on Miss Bs credit file; and
- pay Miss B £400 compensation for the substantial distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman