DRN-3972433
The complaint
Miss R complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc required unnecessary additional 
checks on the property she was applying for a mortgage on before it would progress her 
mortgage application.
What happened
Miss R was in the process of applying for a mortgage with The Mortgage Works when the 
valuation was undertaken in April 2022. 
The valuation report noted signs of structural movement and recommended two further 
specific reports. One by a Structural Engineer or Chartered Building Surveyor and one by a 
specialist cavity wall tie contractor.
A copy of the valuation was shared with Miss Rs broker. There was also a telephone call 
between her broker and The Mortgage Works about this where its accepted by The 
Mortgage Works that only the structural survey was discussed rather than both reports 
needed. The Mortgage Works then emailed Miss Rs broker on 13 April 2022 setting out that 
both a Structural Engineers report and a cavity wall tie report were needed.
The Structural Engineers report was provided to The Mortgage Works later that month. 
When The Mortgage Works shared this report with the valuer, the valuer confirmed it 
addressed the issues it needed to and they would await the cavity wall tie report.
Miss R questioned whether the cavity wall tie report was still needed given that the Structural 
Engineers report didnt raise any concerns about this. However, she did then arrange this 
inspection and the cavity wall tie report was completed on 29 June 2022. 
After both reports were provided to the valuer, an updated valuation was produced on 7 July 
2022. Miss R then completed on the mortgage later that month.
Miss R is unhappy that The Mortgage Works insisted on her obtaining the cavity wall tie 
report after seeing that the structural survey came back positively. Miss R paid £280 for the 
cavity wall tie report and says this requirement delayed her completion by a couple of 
months, costing her rental income. 
The Mortgage Works acknowledged that it could have done more to inform Miss R and/or 
her broker verbally of the need to have both reports. It also acknowledged that there was a 
delay in its response to her complaint. In total it offered Miss R £110 compensation, but it 
hasnt provided further detail on how this amount was broken down.
When Miss R complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold her complaint. In 
summary they said it was reasonable for The Mortgage Works to require the reports 
recommended by its valuer and that Miss Rs broker had been made aware that both reports 
were needed.
Miss R didnt agree, she said that it wasnt fair for The Mortgage Works to rely on the 
judgement of its unqualified valuer when it had a Structural Engineers report showing the 
property didnt have any serious structural issues. 
The Mortgage Works provided further comments from its valuer describing that there was 
more than one potential defect that could have caused the cracking in different areas of the 
property which is why they requested two different types of survey. Miss R felt these 
comments were being added retrospectively to justify requesting a report that was never 
needed.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Its reasonable for a lender, such as The Mortgage Works, to check that a property is 
suitable security for a mortgage before agreeing to lend. Its also common for lenders 
to obtain this valuation from a professional, as The Mortgage Works has done here. 
This is because The Mortgage Works isnt an expert in the condition of a property or 
in assessing its value.
Here, The Mortgage Works used a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
qualified valuer to provide it with a valuation report on the property which Miss R was 
seeking to mortgage. So, it has used a suitably qualified expert for this task.
Here, the valuer specified two types of checks were needed  one by a Structural 
Engineer / Chartered Building Surveyor (acceptable qualifications as defined by 
TMW) and one by a PCA approved specialist wall tie contractor to examine cavity 
wall ties. I think it was reasonable for The Mortgage Works to follow the 
recommendation of the valuer and require these checks be undertaken before it 
would proceed with Miss Rs mortgage application. This is because the valuer had 
concluded this was necessary to ensure the property was suitable security for the 
lending Miss R wanted The Mortgage Works to provide, and as Ive said The 
Mortgage Works was relying on the valuers professional expertise to determine the 
value of the property.
I understand Miss Rs point to be that she thinks a Structural Engineer is more 
qualified than the valuer The Mortgage Works used. And so, she thinks the Structural 
Engineers report should override the recommendation of the valuer in relation to the 
need for a cavity wall tie report. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect The 
Mortgage Works to make its own assessment of the condition of the property based 
on the Structural Engineers report or to make a decision that contradicted the 
valuers recommendation. Rather I think its acted fairly by providing the Structural 
Engineers report to the valuer and then continuing to follow their recommendation. The valuer has explained that they thought there were potentially two unrelated 
defects they wanted checked. But even if the valuer was wrong or unclear in their 
report (which for clarity Im not making a finding on as our service is also not an 
expert in building conditions), I dont think it would be fair to hold The Mortgage 
Works responsible for this. Ultimately, the valuer was an independent expert and I 
think it was reasonable for The Mortgage Works to rely on the valuers professional 
opinion when being advised on whether the property was suitable security for the 
lending being applied for.
Miss R says she didnt feel she had a choice but to pay for this additional cavity wall 
tie report. I appreciate that starting again with a new lender may well have caused a 
delay or additional costs for Miss R and so she may not have wanted to do this, but 
she did have this option. As I dont think The Mortgage Works has done anything 
wrong in requiring the cavity wall tie report, I dont think it would be fair to require it 
reimburse Miss R for the cost of this.
Turning to the matter of customer service and whether The Mortgage works are 
responsible for any delays  I dont think it needs to do anything more here. As Ive 
concluded it was reasonable for The Mortgage Works to request the cavity wall tie 
report, its not at fault for any delay obtaining this had on Miss Rs mortgage 
application. It follows that I dont think The Mortgage Works is responsible for the loss 
of rental income Miss R has described.
I appreciate The Mortgage Works could have done more to set out what was needed 
on the phone with Miss Rs broker. Our service doesnt make punitive awards, and 
Im not persuaded that this caused a delay to Miss Rs mortgage application. This is 
because The Mortgage Works had provided a copy of the valuation report itself, and I 
think its email on 13 April 2022 was clear about what was needed.
I understand Miss R thinks the valuation report wasnt particularly clear that two 
reports were needed. But as Ive said, The Mortgage Works isnt responsible for the 
content of the report, and it did confirm clearly to Miss Rs broker what was needed 
on 13 April 2022. 
If Miss R wishes to accept the £110 compensation The Mortgage Works has offered 
her, she can contact it directly to do so. The Mortgage Works has apologised for a 
delay in responding to Miss Rs complaint, but this isnt something she has 
complained to our service about, nor is complaint handling an activity that we can 
consider, so Im not going to make a finding on this point.
For the reasons explained, I dont think The Mortgage Works needs to do anything further to 
put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman