DRN-2929182
The complaint
Miss A complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Miss A complained about loans she took out with Lending Stream as follows:
loan start date date repaid instalments loan amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
1 7/2/2018 2/3/2018 24 weekly £470 £58.59
2 3/3/2018 6/3/2018 24 weekly £200 £27.60
3 6/3/2018 31/8/2018 COMPLAINT UPHELD BY LENDER
GAP IN LENDING
4 24/6/2019 28/11/2020 6 monthly £400 £140.01
When Miss A complained to Lending Stream, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong 
when it provided loans 1, 2 and 4. But Lending Stream agreed to uphold her complaint about 
loan 3. So it worked out what payment was due to Miss A and then used this to reduce the 
balance she still owed on loan 4.
This left £107.42 owing  which Miss A paid on 28th November 2020. 
Miss A wasnt happy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to this service. She told 
us that Lending Stream hadnt dealt with her complaint about unaffordable lending in the way 
she had hoped  in particular, it had previously made another settlement offer which reduced 
the balance on loan 4 and she said she didnt understand how it had worked out that she still 
needed to pay £107.42 to close her account at Lending Stream.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss A and Lending Stream told us about these 
loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss As 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Miss A for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think there was any reason why Lending Stream shouldve been 
prompted to check what Miss A had said about her financial situation. And our adjudicator 
didn't think that the number of loans Miss A had taken out, the amounts shed borrowed or 
the length of time shed been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve alerted Lending 
Stream to think she was having money problems. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss As 
complaint.  
Miss A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Miss A mainly said that Lending Stream had sent previous emails offering a loan discount 
which it did not stick to, it then paid redress which it used to pay loan 4 and she had to pay 
the rest which she felt was unfair. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream provided Miss A with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Miss A before providing it. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding 
Miss As complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream has already upheld Miss As complaint about loan 3 and taken all the steps 
we would expect it to do to put things right in relation to that loan. This includes refunding 
everything Miss A paid towards loan 3 over and above the principal loan amount, plus 
interest. Lending Stream also said it would remove adverse information about the loan from 
her credit file. We wouldnt ask Lending Stream to do anything more than this if we had 
upheld the complaint. So, Im going to concentrate on her other loans.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Miss As applications after checking the loans were 
affordable. This included asking Miss A to declare her income and tell Lending Stream what 
she spent on other monthly outgoings such as housing costs, food, household bills, transport 
and other payments. Lending Stream also asked Miss A about any other credit expenses 
and did its own credit checks.
 
Lending Stream says the information it gathered about Miss A showed that these loans 
shouldve been affordable for her - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
Ive looked at each loan in turn.
loan 1
I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend Miss A loan 1. The affordability assessment 
Lending Stream carried out suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing. There 
wasnt anything shown in the checks Lending Stream did that suggested otherwise. At this early stage, Miss A didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything 
in the information Miss A provided or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware 
of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken steps to verify the information Miss A 
had declared. So I dont uphold Miss As complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Miss A took out the second loan around the same time she paid loan 1, but she borrowed 
less money this time. So I dont think that the fact she took out the loan straight after paying 
loan 1 early was enough to make Lending Stream think that it shouldnt have kept lending to 
Miss A. 
Lending Stream asked Miss A to update the information she provided about her finances 
each time she applied for a new loan. The loan repayments still looked to be affordable for 
Miss A  even after Lending Stream increased the amount it thought Miss A would be likely 
to spend. There wasnt anything to indicate to Lending Stream that Miss A had found it hard 
to manage the bigger repayments for loan 1  or that paying for this loan was likely to 
become a problem. The credit checks Lending Stream did didnt appear to indicate she had 
any serious money problems. So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss As 
complaint about loan 2.
loan 4
By the time Miss A applied for loan 4 Lending Stream was aware that she had experienced 
problems making her repayments on loan 3. But that had been around a year or so earlier. 
And Miss A hadnt taken out any new borrowing with Lending Stream in the 10 months or so 
since she had successfully repaid loan 3. So, on balance, I think its fair to say that Lending 
Stream was reasonably entitled think that Miss A mightve put her finances back in order. 
And so it wasnt unreasonable for Lending Stream to treat this application as the start of a 
new period of borrowing and effectively think about this as the first loan after she had made 
a fresh start. 
Although Miss A has mentioned that she was unfortunately made redundant on 13 June 
2019, it appears that she told Lending Stream she was still in the same job she had been 
when her earlier loans were taken out. And Lending Stream told us it independently checked 
what Miss A said about her employment and had no reason to think this information wasnt 
reliable. As a result of its checks, Lending Stream downgraded the amount of pay it thought 
she would be able to rely on. Given that Miss A hadnt mentioned that she wasnt going to be 
able to rely on being in work or getting paid after losing her job, it wasnt unreasonable for 
Lending Stream to continue to assume that she would be in work and getting the pay its 
independent check indicated. 
I take Miss As point that if Lending Stream had done more checks it couldve found out what 
her  job situation was. But the rules dont say exactly what checks a lender needs to do  
only that they should be proportionate. 
Broadly speaking, in the particular circumstances here, I think that the checks Lending 
Stream did when assessing Miss As income were proportionate. So the fact that Lending 
Stream didnt find out that Miss A wasnt working wouldnt be a fair reason for me to uphold 
her complaint. 
Lending Stream boosted the figure Miss A had declared for her regular monthly outgoings to 
allow for additional spending she might not have accounted for. And even after doing this, 
the loan repayments she was signing up to make on loan 4 still looked like they should be 
affordable out of Miss As disposable income - which Lending Stream worked out would be around £766. This meant, it appeared that Miss A would still be left with £633 or so spare 
cash left after paying for loan 4.
Looking at the results of the credit checks Lending Stream carried out when Miss A applied 
for loan 4, I cant see that this information disclosed anything that wouldve been of concern 
to a responsible lender. 
So to my mind, although Miss A soon ran into problems paying for this loan, at the time it 
was agreed I think it looked like the loan would be comfortably affordable for her on the 
figures shed declared. And I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending 
Stream had recorded for Miss A, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which 
wouldve caused Lending Stream to think this loan wasnt affordable for Miss A when she 
took it out. 
I think its reasonable to say that Lending Stream was entitled to decide Miss As lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. And its lending decision 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when deciding 
whether to provide this loan.  
I accept that in reality Miss As financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream says it obtained. But in 
order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in 
this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Miss A. 
So this is why Im not planning on upholding her irresponsible/unaffordable lending 
complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Lending Stream acted towards Miss A in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable, bearing in mind her particular concern about the way it 
worked out and applied the redress it paid in respect of loan 3.
Lending Stream made an offer to Miss A in respect of discounting loan 4 if she was able to 
pay £560 by 30th November 2020. Around the same time it also sent its final response letter 
about her complaint and said it was upholding her complaint about loan 3  and it would pay 
redress to reduce the balance on loan 4. 
Miss A then had an email exchange with Lending Stream in response to its offer to uphold 
loan 3 whilst she was still in time to take up its offer to discount loan 4.
I can see why it was confusing when Lending Stream decided to uphold her complaint about 
loan 3 and use the redress it worked out to clear the outstanding balance on loan 4  without 
making any further reference to its earlier offer. 
But broadly speaking, when Lending Stream decided to uphold Miss As complaint about 
loan 3, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to apply the redress in the way it did, without 
first amending the loan 4 balance to reflect the discount it had offered for early settlement.  
I say this because it doesnt look likely to me that Miss A was going to be in a position to 
benefit from the discount offer  she told us that she didnt get paid until 30th November so 
she wasnt able to take advantage of the offer before the expiry deadline. I've also looked at 
the bank statements that Miss A has sent me, which have given me an insight into how she 
was spending her money and her likely financial situation. 
Having done so, I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to make me think that there was any 
reasonable likelihood that Miss A was going to be able to pay £560 and so be able to benefit 
from a discounted settlement figure. In saying this, Im making some reasonable assumptions based on the information Ive seen so far. I will, of course, reconsider what I've 
said if Miss A sends me bank statements for the period around August  November 2020 
that show me something different.  
To sum up, I think Lending Stream was entitled to use the redress it worked out to reduce 
the balance owing to it on loan 4. I cant fairly say that Lending Stream should have applied 
the discount offer to the loan balance before working things out. Thats because Miss A 
hadnt paid the £560 requested to enable it to do that and I dont have any reason to think 
that she was in a financial position to take up that offer in any event. 
I appreciate that what I've said in my provisional decision will be disappointing for Miss A. 
But I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion 
and reassures her that all her complaint points have been fully considered.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss A sent me her bank statements for the period August-November 2020.
Lending Stream said it would await my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Miss A for the time and trouble she has taken to send me the additional 
information I said in my provisional decision that I would consider if it was made available. 
I would like to assure her that Ive taken into account everything that she has sent me. In 
particular, Ive thought carefully about her comment that as the discounted settlement figure 
was due to expire on the 30th November, the bank statement proves that she would have 
paid the discounted amount.
From looking through the bank statements, I dont know if Miss A was in a position to pay the 
£560 she wouldve needed when she received Lending Streams email sent on 3 November 
2020 outlining the offer of  the chance to settle your loan(s) at a reduced price before 30th 
November.
But I think its fair to note that over the course of the next six days Miss A spent more than 
the £560 she needed to pay to settle the loan early on what appear to be online gambling 
transactions.  
I can see from the bank statements that Miss A has sent in response to my provisional 
decision that she took out another high cost loan and this money, plus some gambling wins, 
put her account sufficiently in credit for her to have easily been able to afford the £560 she 
needed to pay by 30th November in order to take advantage of Lending Streams discount 
offer. As far as I can see, she had ample funds in the account to send this money to Lending 
Stream in good time before the deadline  she wasnt dependent by this time on waiting for 
her pay to go into her account. 
The fluctuating balance in Miss As account meant she wasnt always in a position to afford 
to pay £560 to Lending Stream. But Miss A didnt take advantage of the discount offer when 
I think she couldve done had she wanted to, because she chose instead to use the money in her account for other purposes, including further non-essential spending. All this makes 
me think that I cant fairly say that Lending Stream is responsible for her losing out on the 
discount offer  so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to uphold this part of her 
complaint. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further information has been received in response to my provisional 
decision that changes what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint. But I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my 
view.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman