DRN-2374160
The complaint
Mrs S complains (on behalf of herself and the estate of her late husband Mr S) that Lloyds 
Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different business name) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in August 1998. This 
protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr S couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs S complained that PPI wasnt needed and thats why she feels it ought to be refunded. 
Mrs S told us that she and her husband were both in paid work, with good sick pay benefits, 
so they couldve relied on each others wages. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and she has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I've taken carefully into account everything Mrs S told me. But what Mrs S says isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S a choice about taking 
out the PPI. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs S werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that Mr and Mrs S wouldve been unaware PPI was being taken out with their 
mortgage. Heres why I say this.
The copy of the signed paperwork Lloyds provided from when Mr and Mrs S took out their 
mortgage isnt very clear. But I can see that in the section headed Applying for TSB 
MortgageSure (this is what Lloyds called its PPI at the time) there were tick boxes for 
applicants to say either Yes or No to PPI. 
So I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve been able to see that having PPI was a matter of choice. 
And they couldve ticked the No box if they hadnt wanted PPI.  
The Yes box is ticked on this part of the form on Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application. 
And on the next part of the form Mr and Mrs S answered questions to check if Mr S was 
eligible for the policy and filled in details indicating that 100% of the cover should be in 
Mr Ss name. 
So it looks to me like Mr and Mrs S wanted to have PPI at the time. And, despite what Mrs S 
has told me about their circumstances, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have when they signed up for the policy.  
I say this because Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable 
over a significant number of years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. It looks to me as if 
PPI couldve been helpful to Mr and Mrs S as it offered them benefits over and above any 
arrangements they had in place already to help them make their mortgage repayments if 
Mr S couldnt work. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S wanted to have the benefits that PPI 
offered them and that Lloyds added the policy to their mortgage account when Mr and Mrs S 
decided to buy it  although I can completely understand how Mrs S couldve forgotten this 
after so long.
Lloyds said that its advisor recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs S. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date when 
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use a 
few months later. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information and I think its likely 
that the policy Mr and Mrs S took out wouldve had substantially the same terms and 
conditions. 
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ss employment and their financial circumstances, it looks to 
me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what Mr and Mrs S have 
said about their situation at the time. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr S wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Its likely that this policy paid out a monthly benefit that protected Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr S was entitled to 6 months full sick pay. But I think PPI still couldve been useful. It 
couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness. 
So the PPI provided better protection than Mr and Mrs S couldve relied on getting through 
Mr Ss employer. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr and Mrs S 
with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they had some extra costs as a result of 
Mr S being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr S became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Even though Mrs S was working as well, I think losing Mr Ss income wouldve had a 
significant impact on their joint finances. I think its likely this mightve made it hard for Mrs S to manage the mortgage monthly repayments on her own for very long if Mr S wasnt 
working - especially after the first 6 months off sick when his pay wouldve stopped. So 
I think the policy was worthwhile for them.
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I've thought about whether this would make any overall difference to the 
outcome of their complaint. 
There were some policy exclusions and limitations which meant some things werent 
covered under the policy. But it doesnt look as if this affected Mr S. So, I dont think having 
more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it out.  
I dont know when the PPI was explained to Mr and Mrs S  but I can see that it was set out 
in their mortgage offer. So they had an idea in advance about what it would cost them if they 
went ahead with the policy. I havent seen anything to suggest that paying for the policy was 
a problem for them. And as Mr and Mrs S paid for this policy each month they couldve 
cancelled it at any time without incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay to 
keep the policy Lloyds sold them. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them worthwhile protection in their particular situation. I dont think better information 
wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered them.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mrs S but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S, acting on 
behalf or herself and the estate of Mr S, to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman