DRN-2881211
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has declined her 
claim when her mobile phone was damaged as she didnt have it repaired in accordance 
with the terms of her insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D has an insurance policy through her bank account that covers loss or damage to her 
mobile phone. In February 2021, the screen of her phone cracked. Mrs D says the phone 
was unusable so she wasnt able to contact AIG about having it repaired, so she took it to a 
local repairer who fixed it at a cost of £155. Mrs D sought to claim this back from AIG.
AIG has said that Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover her for repairs or replacements outside of her 
insurance. Its said that if Mrs D had contacted it when she became aware that it was 
necessary to make a claim, if the repair option wasnt suitable for her this wouldve been 
discussed with her when she made the claim and shed have been provided with alternative 
options such as a repair at her home or a replacement phone. As Mrs D didnt contact AIG 
before having her phone repaired, it wasnt able to discuss the options available to her.
Mrs D wants to be reimbursed the £155 she had to pay to have her phone fixed and 
compensation for the time and trouble she has incurred in bringing her complaint to this 
service. She says because her phone was unusable she had no means by which she could 
contact AIG to discuss her claim and the options that might be available to her to get it 
repaired given the restrictions necessitated by the ongoing COVID pandemic. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with AIGs response, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigators view was that he didnt think AIG had acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ds claim.  
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ds policy state the procedure for making a claim and he 
couldnt see anything within the policy which states that the costs of a repair completed
somewhere other than an approved repairer are covered.
Mrs D asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for 
a final decision by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I think its reasonable for any insurer to require that certain procedures are followed if a 
customer wishes to make a claim. I also think its reasonable for any such procedure to 
stipulate that repairs for which its responsible are carried out by repairers that it pre-
approves. The insurer can thereby be satisfied as to the need for a repair, the quality of any 
repair, and its cost. A repair arranged by a customer doesnt come with any such assurance. 
Mrs D didnt follow the claims procedure, or contact AIG to discuss available options.
However I also must consider whether this is unfair to Mrs D in the circumstances. 
I can understand that having a useable mobile phone is very important and getting a broken 
phone repaired is a priority. Mrs D told AIG in the telephone call she made to make her claim 
that she needed it for work. 
I consider that it was reasonable for Mrs D to consider her personal safety and to take 
account of the Governments COVID 19 guidance, and I quite appreciate that with her phone 
unusable and without a computer, communicating with AIG wasnt straightforward. She says 
that she wasnt able to get to AIGs nearest approved repairer as it was 10 miles away and 
she didnt have a car at the time. But she didnt learn this until she made her claim which 
was after shed had her phone repaired locally.
But I also think there were means of communicating with AIG which wouldnt have 
compromised Mrs Ds safety or breached COVID guidance. If Mrs D wasnt able to ask 
someone else, for example a family member, friend, or work colleague, to contact AIG by 
phone or email on her behalf, she did visit her local phone repair shop, so she mightve 
asked there if they could help her to contact AIG to ask if it could be authorised to do the 
repair, and if AIG didnt agree with that, to explain what the options were. As an alternative to 
travelling to the nearest AIG approved service centre, she couldve taken advantage of the 
service that AIG was offering of a repair at her home, or a replacement phone mightve been 
sent to her.
My conclusion is that I dont consider that AIG is acting unreasonably in requiring its claims 
procedure to be followed. Because Mrs D had her phone repaired before making her claim 
or discussing the repair options with AIG, I dont consider that AIG is acting unreasonably in 
declining her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman