DRN-4316616
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc irresponsibly approved a fixed sum loan 
agreement for her that she couldnt afford. She also complains about how they treated her 
when she fell into financial difficulty.
What happened
In March 2016 Ms M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Santander to finance the 
purchase of a new car. The agreement was for £22,741 over five years, with an advance 
payment of £750, followed by 48 monthly repayments of £278 and a final monthly payment 
of £8,650.
The agreement included an annual limit of 8,000 miles.
Ms M said Santander used both her and her husbands income to assess the affordability of 
the agreement. She said she could not afford the loan after she and her husband separated 
in 2018.
She said that Santander said that she should sell the car and use the money to pay off the 
majority of the loan. She said they then reduced her monthly payments to 1p. She said she 
contacted them about the balloon payment due at the end of the agreement. She said they 
told them she could afford to pay three quarters of the amount. She said they refused this, 
telling her they would only accept the full amount.
She said she had to pay £200 a month to a debt collection agency, but now she pays 
Santander £150 a month. She feels that Santander has put her into further debt by not 
accepting the offer she made to pay the balloon payment. She also feels they should have 
known she was in financial difficulty when she and her husband separated.
She said that Santander told a third party debt collector to collect the car, even though they 
knew she had already sold it, as theyd told her to do.
Ms M said that Santander are wrongly reporting her arrears to the credit reference agencies, 
and this has affected her ability to re-mortgage. She also feels that its unfair she has been 
left with a debt of around £6,000.
Shes unhappy that Santander used both her and her husbands income to assess whether 
or not the agreement in 2016 was affordable, and unhappy with how they treated her when 
she was in financial difficulty in 2018. She also says the refinancing of the agreement in 
2020 was not affordable. 
She said she received no arrears notice. She said she told them she was up to date, and 
she said she was told to ignore the letter shed received in October 2022 that suggested the 
agreement was ending. 
Santander said they had correctly reported defaults to the Credit Reference Agencies. They 
said that theyd issued a default notice as Ms M had missed payments on a short term 
payment arrangement. They said this had created arrears of £7,604. They said they 
terminated the agreement because Ms M failed to pay the arrears. They said a further short 
term arrangement was agreed. They said because this was for a lower monthly payment this 
would be recorded as a default every month. They said this was a true reflection of her 
payment history.
Santander had responded to Ms Ms complaint that the original agreement had been mis-
sold as it had been based on joint income. Santander didnt uphold this complaint as they 
said they didnt base affordability on joint incomes and that Ms M had confirmed at the time 
that the repayments were affordable. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Ms M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She reached a comprehensive view, upholding 
Ms Ms complaint. In summary she explained that she it was reasonable for Santander to 
consider joint income for lending involving a household product, in this case a car. And she 
didnt look further at the affordability of this agreement as Ms M had said in her own 
testimony that the agreement was affordable at the time.
She went onto look at the circumstances and events after the loan was granted, starting with 
Ms Ms attempt to repay a large amount of the agreement. Ms M had sold the car for just 
under £13,000. She wanted to put this towards the agreement, but Santander only allowed 
her to pay the total amount of the monthly agreement payments: £8,217. This left the balloon 
payment of £8,650 unpaid. 
Our investigator felt it was unreasonable for Santander not to accept the Ms Ms lump sum 
payment offer. She said this left Ms M in more debt than she should have been. She felt that 
Ms M would have had a debt of £4,650, or less if interest had been appropriately deducted. 
She felt that Santander should have allowed Ms M to enter into a repayment plan for this 
amount in 2017. They didnt and they didnt explain why.
She looked at Ms Ms financial position in 2017, and was satisfied that shed have been in a
position to meet repayments towards the outstanding balance if Santander had considered 
this. She explained why she felt this would have meant Ms M would not had to 
refinance the agreement in 2020.
She then considered the refinancing in 2020. She agreed that Ms M matched Santanders 
criteria for a refinance of the agreement. But she didnt think they had treated Ms M fairly as 
they didnt conduct checks on the affordability of the new agreement. She explained that 
the new agreement required Ms M to repay £9,419.84 in one lump sum, after only 12
months. Santander were aware that she only had £4,000 available so they should have 
checked whether or not Ms M could afford the remaining £5,419.
She didnt think Santander made a fair lending decision when they offered her the new 
agreement in 2020. Our investigator calculated that the maximum Ms M would have been 
able to save was around £3,272.88. So, it was unlikely shed have been in a position to 
repay the balance of the new agreement by March 2021. 
She considered whether Santander treated Ms M fairly when she told them she was in 
financial difficulty, both in 2017 and in 2020. She didnt think it was fair or reasonable to 
expect Ms M to pay the final amount in one lump sum or within 12 months whilst the monthly
contributions continued at £0.01. So she felt that Santander didnt offer Ms M a sensible 
forbearance option which provided a realistic prospect of success.Finally she looked at the circumstances that led to the default and termination of the 
agreement. Ms M said she was told in a call by Santander that no payments had been 
missed and there had been an error.
Santander didnt provide a copy of the call, so our investigator considered the circumstances 
at the time. She said that Ms M had been making the payments, but sporadically  
sometimes late but often she made multiple payments in one month. This meant that some 
payments were shown as missed, with Ms M thinking she was up to date. Santander started 
the default process when Ms M missed the July 2022 payment.
Our investigator felt that this was an inevitable consequence of the agreement that 
Santander started in 2020. 
She explained why she felt that if Santander had accepted Ms Ms offer to repay a further
£4,000 off the final balance  either in 2017 or in 2020, her situation would likely be much
more favourable at this point and a default may have been avoided entirely.
She felt that Santander should remove £4,000 from the balance of the agreement, 
reimburse/ write off the interest payable on the second agreement and report the default 
marker on Ms Ms file from March 2020 and not November 2022.
Ms M accepted this outcome but Santander disagreed.
They said they felt theyd tried to help Ms M. They said they couldve considered the 
voluntary surrender option if Ms M had approached them before the car was sold. They said 
this may have meant she could have walked away from the agreement.
They said they couldnt allow Ms M to settle the balloon payment at that time as this would 
have reduced the duration period of the agreement. They said the contract didnt allow them 
to accept this.
They asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. In considering this complaint Ive had 
regard to the relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice, and what I consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms M was 
supplied with a car under a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
The first element of Ms Ms complaint was about the affordability of the original agreement 
she entered into in 2016. She was unhappy that Santander had considered her and her 
husbands income. Im not considering this further as in her own complaint testimony Ms M 
says the loan was affordable at the time. And Santander said they didnt rely on joint income. 
So I wont be making any further findings on this part of Ms Ms complaint.
The remainder of Ms Ms complaint relates to how Santander treated her when she was in 
financial difficulty. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Santander 
lent to Ms M. It required Santander to treat consumers in financial difficulty, like Ms M, with forbearance and due consideration. The FCAs principles, and Principle 6 in particular 
required Santander to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Its rules and guidance are found in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), available 
online. 
Ms M contacted Santander in February 2017 and told them she was in financial difficulty. 
Their notes show that they advised her that she could sell the car and told her what shed 
need to pay to settle the agreement. It also appears that they told her she would have to pay 
the final balloon payment due under the agreement in one payment when she had the 
money.
She was given similar advice in May 2017. And again in August 2017 when she called to 
settle. Santander said they couldnt allow Ms M to pay off any shortfall in instalments as they 
were unable to do this. They said this was because they couldnt keep funds beyond the 
original maturity date. She paid £8,217 and Santander agreed a new monthly payment of 
one pence.
Santander has given no reason or explanation why they couldnt do more to help Ms M at 
this time. Their explanations seem to be related to the contract not allowing anything else to 
be done. Theres no evidence of any attempt to pay regard to Ms Ms interests or treat her 
fairly. If Santander had considered Ms Ms situation at the time, they would likely have 
designed a solution that would have seen a substantial amount of the agreement settled 
without increasing Ms Ms indebtedness.
If theyd accepted her offer to pay the initial amount of the hire purchase agreement - £8,217 
 and the lump sum towards the balloon payment, this would have likely reduced the amount 
she owed to around £4,650. They refused and offered a modifying agreement for the 
outstanding amount of £8,650. With added interest she was now required to pay £9,420.
I cant see how this helped Ms M or offered forbearance and due consideration. The FCA 
handbook says that firms like Santander should allow customers, like Ms M, who are in 
financial difficulty, reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. By refusing Ms Ms 
offer, they did not allow reasonable opportunity to repay the debt. Nor did they allow Ms Ms 
reasonable proposal for repaying the debt, as set out in the FCA Handbook. 
Santanders next contact with Ms M was in January 2020 when they wrote to tell her the 
balloon payment was due in 90 days.
She wrote to them in March 2020 to tell them shed sold the car and could pay £4,000 
towards the lump sum due and asking for a longer period to pay the balance. Santanders 
solution was to refinance the agreement, effectively getting Ms M to enter into a new 
agreement  for the full amount outstanding.
Santander agree that Ms M is a vulnerable customer. I think they shouldve recognised this 
sooner by asking appropriate questions when she first told them she was struggling 
financially. They said they could have done more to help her if shes approached them 
before she sold the car. That may be true, but it didnt prevent them from providing additional 
support, or accepting the payment she offered  the full amount shed obtained for the car.
Instead their solution was to require her to enter into a modifying agreement in April 2020. 
This required her to pay eleven monthly payments of one pence and one payment of £9,419 
after 12 months.
And in April 2021 she could not afford to pay the agreed amount under the new agreement. 
So it was agreed that shed pay £100 a month.Santanders own notes record that they had told her to sell the car. The notes also 
acknowledge that they shouldnt have gone ahead with the modifying agreement. Im 
satisfied this is another example of Santander not considering Ms Ms interests or treating 
her fairly. The modifying agreement increased the amount of debt, and meant that she 
couldnt repay the debt until 2021. I say more about this below but Im satisfied this was 
neither fair nor reasonable, and not in line with the FCA expectations as set out in CONC 7.
Santander realised that Ms M couldnt afford the agreement, and rather than find a solution 
that suited her situation at that time, they passed her details to a third party debt collector. 
They agreed that Ms M could afford £200 a month at that time (later reduced to £150 a 
month) and sent the matter back to Santander  it appears principally because the car had 
been sold and there was no asset for them to recover.
Ms M was also unhappy that Santander continued to mark her credit file with missed 
payments, despite her making the agreed payments. Santander said they did this because 
the payments she was making were lower than the amount in the modifying agreement.
Ms M paid £3,150 to Santander between September 2021 and April 2023. This is a 
substantial amount towards the amount of £4,650 that would have been outstanding if 
Santander had treated her with forbearance and accepted her offer to pay £4,000 towards 
the balloon payment in 2017, or even in 2020.
Modifying agreement 2020
Santander said they didnt consider affordability when they set up the modifying agreement. 
They said they met their criteria for a refinancing. Im satisfied they should have conducted a 
full affordability assessment. I accept and agree with our investigators view that if they had 
conducted a proportionality check they would have found the agreement was more likely 
than not to have been unaffordable.
But Im not going to consider this further. Thats because, as Ive explained above, a 
modifying agreement was not the appropriate solution to Ms Ms financial difficulties and 
should not have been offered to her. 
From as early as 2017 Santander knew Ms M was in financial difficulty, and they later also 
acknowledged her circumstances meant she was vulnerable.
So Im satisfied that Santander should have accepted her offer to repay a larger amount in 
2017, or certainly in 2020. That would have been the appropriate method of forbearance and 
due consideration. 
Their approach also led to Ms M having defaults recorded on her credit file. Its difficult to 
say what would have happened if the appropriate steps had been taken by Santander in 
2017. What we can say is that Ms M made the payments towards the payment plan. I accept 
these werent always paid on the agreed date, and this caused some difficulty for Santander. 
But payments were made.It was the missed payment in July 2022 that led to Santander adding the default to Ms Ms 
credit file. It should have been clear to Santander in 2020 that the agreement was in default 
and the default should have been recorded at that time. I appreciate Ms M feels she 
shouldnt have a default, but I disagree. I think the history shows that she was in financial 
difficulty, was unable to settle the agreement, and she would likely have defaulted in 2020, 
even if Santander had done what Ive suggested.
Putting things right
Ive explained why Im satisfied that Santander didnt treat Ms M fairly when she told them 
she was in financial difficulty. I think the actions they took led her to be in significantly more 
financial difficulty than she should have been.
I think they should have accepted her offer to pay the £12,970 shed received for the car. 
This would have left her with a balance of £4,650 to pay. And in line with CONC, they should 
have suspended interest on that amount.
Ms M has also been through considerable distress and inconvenience during this period. 
Santanders failure to treat her with forbearance and due consideration has undoubtedly 
added to her distress, and increased her anxiety. For this distress, Santander should pay Ms 
M £300.
So I think Santander should:
Remove £4,000 from the balance of the agreement. 
Reimburse/ write off the interest payable on the second agreement. 
Report the default marker on Ms Ms file from March 2020 and not November 2022.
Pay Ms M £300 for distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman