DRN-3573846
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because he says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr H had a travel insurance policy with Barclays which was linked to his bank account. He 
says Barclays sold him another travel insurance policy (a Travel Plus Pack). Mr H says 
Barclays initially contacted him by phone. He doesnt think thats fair as Barclays knew hed 
already got a policy. Mr H wants Barclays to refund the premiums he paid for the additional 
policy.  
Mr H complained to Barclays. They said Mr H had added the Travel Plus Pack online. They 
said the policy hadnt been mis-sold and the Travel Plus Pack had additional benefits. 
Unhappy, Mr H complained to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
it was most likely the policy had been taken out online. The investigator didnt think the 
Travel Plus Pack had been mis-sold as he thought Mr H had been given enough information 
to decide if it was right for him.
Mr H asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, he queried whether 
Barclays incentivised staff to sell the policy and why the person who contacted him knew 
nothing about his financial situation. He was also concerned the call hadnt been recorded 
and questioned why it had taken Barclays two years to identify the duplication in cover.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint because:
Mr H says he was initially contacted by Barclays over the phone. Theres no copy of 
the call recording available. Its unfortunate and I understand why thats worrying for 
Mr H. But it doesnt mean his complaint should be upheld as I need to make my 
decision based on the available evidence. 
The evidence available to me suggests it is most likely the policy was taken out 
online. I accept that may have been after an unsolicited call from Barclays to Mr H. 
But, ultimately, Mr H didnt receive advice from Barclays about the policy as it was an 
online sale. And, in any event, Mr H hasnt given detailed or compelling evidence 
about what was said in the call and why he felt he was being advised to take it out.  
As Barclays didnt give Mr H advice about the policy the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Barclays didnt need to make sure the policy was right for Mr H. 
That means they didnt need to look into, for example, whether hed already got a 
travel insurance policy. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines about non-advised sales say Barclays did 
need to give Mr H enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. That 
information should be clear, fair and not misleading. So, Ive looked at the 
documentation Mr H was provided with. 
I think the policy documentation sets out what the key features of the policy were. It 
also prompted Mr H to check if hed already got cover and explained the cancellation 
rights for the policy. So, I think Mr H had enough information to decide if the policy 
met his needs and whether there was any duplication of cover. In this case it was 
Mr Hs responsibility to check.  
I cant answer all of Mr Hs questions, for example, why he was contacted by 
Barclays, why theres no copy of the call, if Barclays incentivised staff or whether the 
person who called had a detailed understanding of his financial situation. But I dont 
think those issues are central to the outcome of this complaint. Ive made my 
decision taking into account the relevant rules and industry guidelines which Ive 
outlined above. Having done so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and I dont think 
Barclays needs to refund Mr Hs premiums. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman