DRN-4174646
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Societys system didnt allow him to change his 
mortgage product in time. This has cost him about £1,265.00 and he would like this 
refunded. 
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with Nationwide. He has renewed it every two years by the online 
portal and assumed he could do that again in 2022. In 2020 along with the change in 
mortgage product he reduced the mortgage term of the mortgage to 17 years to pay more off 
the capital balance monthly. This change was done online. Late last year with interest rates 
going up, he wanted to increase the term to keep his contractual monthly payments (CMP) 
at about the same level.  Mr S tried to change the term online in October but couldnt and 
assumed it was a software issue with Nationwides system. Mr S contacted a Nationwide 
adviser directly on 24 October but not until after the deadline for a switch that would benefit 
him in November had passed. During that phone call, Nationwide told him that there was 
another way to reduce the CMP with a valuation of his property. Mr S agreed to that and also 
requested a term extension. Nationwide said that as the term extension Mr S wanted 
stretched into his retirement, he would have to take advice from a mortgage adviser before 
deciding on the term extension.
In October 2022, the CMP was £1,876.42. In November without the mortgage product switch 
being arranged, Mr S paid a CMP of £2,691.94 based on Nationwides Standard Mortgage 
Rate (SMR). In December, after Nationwide revalued the property the CMP reduced to 
£2,006.31. But the full term extension wasnt changed until later and didnt have an effect on 
the CMP until February 2023.Mr S says that if Nationwides system worked as it had done in 
2020, when it reduced the term, that he wouldnt have had to pay this extra money.
Nationwide says that there was no software issue that prevented Mr S extending the term of 
his mortgage online but as the extension went into Mr Ss retirement it required advice to be 
given and so simply couldnt be done online. Mr S then didnt contact Nationwide until after 
the deadline to change the mortgage product in October 2022 had passed, But the mortgage 
product was put in place for December 2022 and, following a delay, the term extension was 
implemented in February 2023. Nationwide agreed that there was a delay in the mortgage 
extension being processed and said that it would backdate the term extension to 1 
December 2022 and pay compensation of £75 but otherwise it felt it did nothing wrong.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe 
that Nationwide had done anything wrong as Mr S contacted it about a mortgage switch after 
the time to do so had expired. Mr S disagreed saying in summary that Nationwide should 
have told him about any changes regarding the term change and whether it could be done 
online and didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S in 2020 changed the term of his mortgage online and thought that he would be able to 
do the same again. But in 2020 he reduced the term. This time he wanted to extend the term 
and to extend it into retirement. That meant that for Nationwide some assessment had to be 
done about the affordability of the mortgage in retirement and, so, couldnt be done online. 
Mr S thought that he was experiencing a software issue and continued to try to do it online 
until he eventually contacted a mortgage adviser by phone. But by the time he did so, the 
time for implementing a mortgage switch in time to be effective for November 2022 had just 
passed which meant he missed out on that switch for November 2022. He then had to have 
a meeting with a mortgage adviser which was quickly arranged but with interest rates 
increasing in the meantime. 
Nationwide says that Mr S would have been told during the online application process that 
the application couldnt be done online and that he had to contact Nationwide. The problem 
then is that Mr S contacted Nationwide too late and after the deadline for changing the 
mortgage product had passed. Mr S was aware of that deadline from Nationwides letter of 5 
October 2022. My role is to decide whether Nationwide did anything wrong.
My view is that in general Nationwide has done nothing wrong. Mr S was aware that in order 
to benefit from a new mortgage product he had to get the switch organised before a certain 
date and time but didnt. The reason for his late direct contact with Nationwide is that he 
made assumptions based on previous dealings with Nationwide that he could amend the 
term online. But because this term change meant an extension of the term into his 
retirement, Nationwide required an assessment of the affordability of the mortgage into 
retirement and an advised interview with Mr S. 
So, Nationwide didnt allow an online application but told Mr S to contact the company 
directly. In any case as Mr S was aware of when the deadline for processing the application, 
I would have thought it reasonable and prudent for him to contact Nationwide directly before 
the deadline had passed to ensure that he was able to achieve all the wanted to achieve in 
time for a switch in November 2022. The fact that he didnt do that, I dont consider to be the 
fault of Nationwide. I do see that there was an issue of delay in the valuation appeal and 
implementing the term extension. Nationwide has offered to recompense Mr S for the effect 
of that by backdating the term extension to the 1 December 2022 and paying £75 for his 
distress arising out of that delay. I consider that a fair outcome to this complaint. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to settle this complaint by offering 
£75 compensation and backdating the term extension to 1 December 2022 which I consider 
fair.
So, I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr S £75 and, if he still wants the start of 
the term backdated, to backdate the extension to his mortgage term to 1 December 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman