DRN-2976872
The complaint
Mr P complains as a resident and on behalf of P, a residential management company
together with Mr F, Mr L, Ms L and Mr M, other residents of a block of apartments, that
National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont pay a claim under its building warranty for a
defective roof to the block. When I refer to P I mean P and all the residents of the block.  
What happened
The roof in question is a flat roof that covers the whole block. It consists of two parts, the
main roof and five sections of roof, raised above the rest of the roof variously referred to as
podium roofs or tower roofs. The roof was the subject of a claim first made in May 2017. This
was under section 3 of the warranty (years 3-10). The roof was leaking and it was identified
in expert reports that the insulation and ventilation were faulty, causing condensation to
develop on the underside of the roof. This in turn caused delamination of the plywood
decking to the roof. NHBC accepted the claim. It was agreed that it would pay a cash
settlement to P so that it could use its own contractors. To calculate the sum due, NHBC put
the work out to tender and as result made a cash settlement offer which reflected the lowest
tender. P and the residents all accepted the offer and went ahead and instructed its own
contractors to carry out the work.
In November 2019 Ps expert (Mr K) carried out a survey of just the tower roofs and said that
the same problems were occurring on those. He had carried out a similar survey in February
2017 in respect of the original claim. P made another claim to NHBC. This time it turned it
down. It said that the ventilation and insulation and the plywood decking did not come under
the parts of the property covered under section three of the warranty. Specifically it said that
it was not part of the load bearing parts of the roof nor part of the roof coverings. This was
despite it having previously accepted a claim in respect of an identical defect. So that the
work could be continuous P instructed the contractors to carry out the necessary work to the
five tower roofs.
On referral to this service after some correspondence with NHBC, our investigator accepted
that the ventilation and insulation were not covered, but said that the plywood roof decking
was covered as part of the roof coverings. She put this to P and it was agreed that the cost
of the ventilation and insulation would be removed from the settlement figure. As a result P
said the settlement that should be paid is £54,547.50, plus the cost of Mr Ks report.  
NHBC then advised that in the previous claim, the scope of works which accompanied the
tender documents referred to 4 raised sections of flat roof. It said that it had paid for those
sections to be repaired as part of the previous cash settlement which had been accepted in
full by the residents. It noted that there were in fact five such sections and NHBC put forward
an offer to cash settle the fifth section of £5,000, since it said Mr K had estimated that to be
the cost. In fact Mr K later confirmed that the cost per podium roof was £12,700 plus VAT
(presumably before the cost of ventilation and insulation was removed).
This new evidence was put to P. Mr P explained that though the scope of work included
raised sections of roof he didnt believe that this meant the tower roofs which are
completely different roofs which stand 2m higher than the level of the main roof. He said that
when the offer was made it didnt mention the tower roofs but simply referred to the removal
of all roof coverings and all plywood deck. They wanted the full proposed payment made.
On review by our investigator, she wasnt persuaded that the tower roofs were intended to
be included in the previous settlement. She remained of the view that NHBC should pay the
settlement she had previously proposed.
I issued a provisional decision. In It I said that although I thought the tower roofs were 
covered under the warranty, NHBC had paid a settlement to include those roofs as part of 
the first claim. It had though only paid in respect of four roofs, so it should pay the cost to P 
of the fifth such roof.
All parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
the claim
NHBC has rejected the claim, even though it previously accepted and paid out for an
identical claim concerning the main roof. P has made a claim under section 3 of the
warranty, the relevant part of which says:
We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting right any physical
damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in respect of any of the following parts of
your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat
f) load-bearing parts of the roof;
g) roof coverings; 
NHBC says that neither the ventilation, insulation nor the plywood decking are part of the
above two elements of the roof. Im inclined to agree that ventilation and insulation are not
part of the load bearing parts nor are they part of the roof coverings. But I do think that
plywood decking is part of the roof coverings. NHBC previously had no trouble agreeing this
and it appears odd to me that it would pay out a substantial cash settlement if this were not
the case. At the very least this is a matter of opinion and my view, in line with NHBCs
original investigators is that the plywood decking formed part of the roof coverings.
There still has to be damage caused by a defect in respect of the roof coverings. NHBC has
argued that the defect was in the ventilation/insulation and this caused the plywood to
delaminate. So unless the plywood was defective in itself then the damage would still not be
covered. For reasons I shall explain below, I shall refer to Mr Ks report of February 2017. In
it he said:
The roof decking was found to be 18mm plywood decking fixed to the secondary rafters.
He further said: 
The delamination of the plywood is due to the interstitial condensation but is likely to have
occurred due to the wrong grade of plywood being used on the roof. Had EN 636-3 plywood
been used I dont believe the plywood would have delaminated as readily..
NHBC has suggested that it hasnt been shown what grade of plywood has been used, so it
hasnt been shown that this was a breach of its technical requirements. However, taking into
account its own experts previously accepting that the wrong grade of plywood was used andMr Ks view that this was likely I think the plywood itself was defective. As Mr K said, had the
right grade been used it might still have delaminated over time. Though this would not
necessarily be within the ten year period of the warranty.
For those reasons I think the claim for the tower roofs is covered in the same way as the rest
of the main roof.
has the claim already been settled?
NHBC has belatedly brought up the issue of whether the claim for the tower or podium roofs
has already been settled. It believes it has, so that, apart from one of the tower roofs it has
no further obligation to consider the claim.
P hasnt previously complained about the main settlement. Its complaint about that
settlement concerned additional fees. So we havent previously considered what it covered.
For the first claim, NHBC decided that it would pay a cash settlement. This was as far as I
can see for two reasons - firstly because P wanted a warm roof system installed rather
than a cold roof system. I understand the latter system was in place before and NHBC said
a similar system, with appropriate allowances for adequate ventilation, could be installed.
The warm roof system, which P wanted was more costly and considered by NHBC as
betterment. Secondly NHBC didnt want the ongoing responsibility of the flat roof.
The cash settlement was based on the scope of works drawn up by NHBC which in turn
made reference to Mr Ks original report. This scope was then used to prepare documents
for sending the work out to tender. When the tenders came back, NHBC selected the lowest
tender and added a 10% project management fee and £1,000 for health and safety issues,
and put that to P as a cash settlement. P accepted this.
The terms of the cash settlement allowed for removal of all roof coverings and all plywood
deck... In the tender documents, copies of which were sent to P it said:
The works comprise of reconstruction of the flat roofs to the main building comprising of the
main area of flat roof together with 4 raised sections of flat roof.
It also said:
This schedule is to be read in conjunction with:
Specialist report from [Mr K] 22-Feb-2017
Mr Ks report detailed that what he called the podium roofs were suffering from the same
problem as the main roof and recommended to:
Strip existing roof coverings to podium roof and main flat roofs including membranes and
plywood structural roof decking. 
As the scope of works was in my view deemed to include that report, I think that the raised
sections meant to refer to the tower roofs. The fifth tower roof was missed off, possibly
because it is at a right angle to the other tower roofs.
So I do think that the cash settlement included a settlement for the tower roofs. The fact that
P wasnt able to use the settlement to pay for the tower roofs to be done was likely because
the contractors it selected couldnt do all the work for the settlement put forward. Ive noted
already that the warm roof system was likely to have a higher cost.
I think NHBCs liability is limited to paying for the fifth tower roof missed off the scope of
works. The cost of doing this, advised by Mr K, was £12,700 plus VAT. I know this includesthe ventilation and insulation, but as that was included for the rest of the roofs in the original
scope I see no reason why NHBC shouldnt pay that whole sum. However that was the
amount paid by P and doesnt necessarily reflect the proportion of the original cash
settlement that refers to just one tower roof. In the absence of any reasoned calculation of
that I propose at present to require NHBC to pay £12,700 plus VAT. If it, or P wants to
provide me with a calculation of the cost of that roof as a proportion of the settlement I will
consider it in my final decision. To any payment NHBC must add 8% simple interest from the
date the contractors invoice was paid until reimbursement.
I wont award the fee paid to Mr K for his second report. It is essentially a repeat of his
conclusions in his first report and I cant see that it was necessary.
As all parties have accepted my provisional findings, I shall make no further comments. 
Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I require NHBC to pay a cash settlement to P of £12,700 plus VAT, together with
8% simple interest* from the date the contractors invoice was paid until reimbursement.
*National House-Building Council is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax
from any interest paid. Should P and Mr F, Mr L, Ms L and Mr M request it, it should provide
them with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they
can reclaim it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and Mr F, Mr L, 
Ms L and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman