DRN-3719831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about investment advice they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Mr and Mrs S are using a representative to bring this complaint. For ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mr and Mrs S
What happened
In 1999 Mr and Mrs S invested some funds after speaking with Barclays. 
In 2021 Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays saying the investment advice wasnt 
appropriate. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint saying the advice met their objectives at the time and 
the investment provided meaningful diversification.
Remaining unhappy Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the investment was suitable for their 
situation and objectives.
Mr and Mrs S disagree saying the advice was unsuitable as there was a lack of 
diversification and they couldnt accept the level of risk in a single product. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mr and Mrs S that Ive read 
and considered everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised some things which reflects the informal nature of this service. And Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the most important aspects of the complaint and what 
happened.
The fact find from the time shows that Mr and Mrs S had a medium attitude to risk and that 
they wanted to achieve capital growth. There were existing investments which showed 
experience in taking some risk with their decisions.
After this investment Mr and Mrs S were left with a large cash reserve. Its also noted there 
was an amount of disposable income each month. 
The investment was heavy in equities but looking at the entire portfolio for Mr and Mrs S, 
including cash reserves, I dont think this was too much risk. An objective was to achieve a 
higher return than cash, and this investment met that objective. The cash reserves and 
disposable income meant there was space to cope with any losses should that happen.
Our Investigator said the attitude to risk couldve been explored more, and I agree. However 
looking at all the available evidence from the time I think the advice was suitable and met the 
recorded objectives. 
Mr and Mrs S said that this investment meant there was a lack of any meaningful 
diversification. However taking into account the full portfolio of investments, including cash 
reserves, I dont think thats the case.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the advice was suitable 
and met the recorded objectives of Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman