DRN-3880972
The complaint
Mr has complained about the settlement provided by AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) following 
a water damage claim under his home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, AXA includes its agents, surveyors and contractors in this 
decision letter.
What happened
Mr S noted an escape of water at his property in October 2021. He arranged for the problem 
to be traced and it was found that the leak had been caused by a burst underfloor heating 
pipe. Mr S reported the damage to AXA as his home insurer and AXA appointed surveyors 
and accepted the claim. The surveyors report noted some damage to eight rooms in the 
property. 
Mr S was unhappy with the level of cash settlement offered by AXA in relation to his claim. 
He said hed been left out of pocket for what was a genuine claim. He wanted AXA to pay 
him the shortfall between the amount hed paid for repairs, and the amount the insurers had 
offered. AXA declined to do so, and Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
The services investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ss policy, if the insurer decided to settle a claim through a cash 
payment, it was entitled to limit the amount paid to what it considered its preferred supplier 
would have charged. He said that based on the available evidence and in particular the 
surveyors expert opinion, he considered that AXA had offered Mr S a fair cash settlement. 
Mr S remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. In the circumstances the matter 
has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
cash settlement figure in relation to Mr Ss claim. I consider that it has done so, and Ill 
explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
As to the parties submissions, Mr S has said that he simply wished to be paid the shortfall. 
He didnt agree that it was appropriate for AXA to deduct payment for certain elements. He 
felt very strongly that hed adhered to AXAs systems and processes and that hed gone 
above and beyond to avoid additional expense to AXA. He also thought that it was accusing 
him of carrying out work or repairs that werent required and said: I can clearly state that 
under no circumstances did we even think of taking such action. He also felt that hed been 
too honest regarding his claim: - if another claim ever arises, but obviously we hope not, I 
will most certainly step back in full and allow for the Insurance Company to provide the 
Trades and Parts so they have no reason to not pay out in full. He was without a family 
bathroom for three months while he tried to locate the original tiles to save AXA money and 
because he didnt want a new bathroom as the existing one was only two years old.
Mr S also thought that AXA had penalised him for removing and replacing the existing bath, 
sink and toilet with new items. Mr S said that as the existing tiles went behind and 
underneath these items, it wouldnt have been appropriate to cut around existing tiles and 
then make good with new tiles butting up to the old with application of sealant. He therefore 
replaced these items from his own pocket: so all the fitters had to do was install the new 
ones and not the old ones once the tiles had been replaced and to do this they had to 
remove the sink, toilet and bath so no additional cost was created.
As to the shower tray removed by the fitters, he said it had a hairline crack in it so couldnt 
have been refitted. He said that the shower screen was also twisted when removed, so 
attempting to refit would most certainly have seen the glass shatter  He considered that 
the new bathroom configuration would minimise future problems and claims. Mr S 
acknowledged that he engaged a builder colleague who carried out work free of charge who 
also arranged for his carpenter to replace all the skirting boards, again free of charge.
Finally, Mr S was unhappy about the information provided by AXA. He said there were 
comprehensive, excellent messages that hed sent to AXA with unlimited amounts of 
updates as we chased the tiles etc for months on end. He didnt think that AXA had provided 
all relevant records to this service
Turning to what AXA has said about the matter, it noted that Mr S arranged for certain work 
to be completed by his own contractors. It said that the surveyors had looked at Mr Ss 
estimates and invoices and based its settlement figure on reasonable costs for the 
necessary repairs. It said that Mr S initially agreed its settlement figure and it considered that 
it had followed the correct process.
As to the expert evidence relied upon by AXA, I note that its surveyors produced a detailed 
report in October 2021. The report stated that the sub-floor as well as walls would be wet 
and therefore recommended assisted drying. It recommended that the skirting boards be 
removed in places to assist drying. It noted however that Mr S didnt want strip out to be 
completed or skirting boards to be removed in certain cases. As well as the report AXA also 
arranged for surveyors to produce a scope of works which formed the basis for settlement.
AXA produced its claim notes. These recorded a range of matters. For instance, the notes 
recorded that Mr S wanted to replace affected tiles, but that as they were no longer made 
this wasn't an option, and that Mr S then acknowledged that he would need to contribute to 
the cost of new tiles. It also recorded that it wasnt considered necessary to remove 
bathroom fittings for the tiling to take place, however that Mr S disagreed. In its opinion, Mr 
Ss rates for debris removal, skip hire and labour costs were higher than necessary. AXA 
noted Mr Ss view that hed arranged for decoration, filling of holes and replacement of 
skirting himself, when he could have included these in the claim. It acknowledged that Mr S 
made some changes to the bathroom to prevent leaks in future, but AXA explained that it 
would not be liable for this, and that Mr S understood this.
The notes also recorded Mr Ss view that the new shower was one which was easier to 
install than the previous one. The notes also recorded that Mr S didnt feel it fair that AXA 
deducted costs for areas that hed paid out for and had receipts as evidence. It was recorded 
in April 2022 that the surveyor had advised that some costs were a bit excessive, including 
the rates for tiling labour. It was also noted that Mr S possibly compromised his claim by 
having works done before validation of costs and that this was accepted. As to the cracking 
of the shower tray, the notes stated that this item had been carefully removed and that no 
damage was noted, and the expectation was that it would be refitted. The notes went on to say that the tray, enclosure, shower valve, riser rails and other sanitaryware had all been 
replaced but the costs were not being claimed for. 
Finally, the notes from May 2022 showed that the estimated costs were discussed with Mr 
S and they indicated that it made him aware that a change of specification would be at 
his expense, whilst Mr S asked when he could see his claim finally settled for our recent 
bathroom disaster? The notes then indicate that AXA considered it had finalised the matter 
and asked whether the specific settlement figure had been received by Mr S. The notes 
from June 2022 then referred to a conversation with Mr S where he then expressed 
concern about the settlement figure. 
Turning to the reasons for my decision, my starting point in making my final decision is to 
consider the wording of the policy itself. Ive noted that the claim was accepted in principle. 
Ive also noted that the terms and conditions of the policy make it clear that: -Where we can 
offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay you a cash or 
cash alternative settlement, then the payment will not exceed the amount we would have 
paid the preferred supplier. 
Expert evidence, opinion or reports produced by a professional representative of either party 
is usually considered to be persuasive in determining the extent of the works of repair which 
are required. In this case, AXA produced a detailed survey report of the damage as well as 
an itemised and priced scope of works. I consider these to be compelling in reaching my 
conclusion as to whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in making its cash settlement offer 
to Mr S. Unfortunately for Mr S, he has not produced alternative professional evidence which 
indicates that alternative or more extensive works were necessary or that the costs of the 
necessary works were in excess of those detailed by AXAs surveyors.
In summary, Im satisfied that the report and scope of work produced by AXAs surveyors 
represents the most persuasive available evidence of the cost of necessary works, being 
evidence produced by an individual bound by professional obligations. In the absence of 
contrary expert evidence produced by a surveyor, loss adjuster or other appropriate 
professional, I cant say that AXA has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in reaching 
its cash settlement figure. As to Mr Ss complaint that AXA hadnt shared all relevant 
information, from consideration of the detailed case-notes, Im satisfied that AXA produced 
comprehensive information to this service as well as details of contact by Mr S.
 
I can appreciate that Mr S will be very disappointed by the outcome of his complaint, 
however from the available evidence, I cant say that AXA has acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in paying Mr S less than he hoped for or expected. Unfortunately, the 
insurance claims process doesnt always lead to total costs of works being covered following 
an incident. This includes cases where a policyholder may change or go beyond the scope 
of works which are reasonably necessary to remedy damage caused by an insured peril.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman