DRN-3121981
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Creation Financial Services Limited didnt refund an amount he paid 
for a flight on his credit card. He brings the claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (S75).
What happened
In October 2018 Mr H bought return flights to Orlando  flying in September 2019  for him 
and his wife with an airline  who I shall refer to as T. The flights cost £659.98 per person for 
premium economy class seats. He paid for the flights on his Creation credit card. In 
April 2019 he bought two further tickets for his son and sons partner to fly on the same 
plane. These flights cost £454.98 per person  with economy class seats on the outbound 
flight and premium economy seats on the inbound flight. He also paid for these flights on his 
Creation credit card.
In September 2019 T went into liquidation while Mr H and his travelling party were in 
Orlando and the return flights Mr H bought were cancelled. All of Mr Hs travelling party were 
repatriated under arrangements made by the UK Government, in standard economy class 
seats on a flight operated by another airline. They did not pay anything extra for their 
repatriation flight.
Mr H later claimed a refund from Creation for the full cost of the return flights he paid for as 
he said T didnt provide them. Creation didnt think it was required to refund anything as it 
said Mr Hs travelling party were all flown home. It said it would refund anything Mr H paid 
towards extra services that he didnt receive. But it didnt think Mr H had shown hed paid for 
any extra services.
Mr H remained of the opinion T had breached the terms of its contract with him in not 
providing an alternative flight  he said the repatriation flight was provided by the UK 
Government, not T. So he maintained he was entitled to a refund of the return flight cost 
under the terms of the contract with T.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She didnt think Creation was liable for any 
breach of contract regarding Mr Hs son and sons partners flights as she didnt think Mr H 
was a party to this contract. But she did think Creation was required to compensate Mr H for 
any breach of contract regarding his and his wifes contract. She didnt think Creation 
needed to refund the full cost of the return ticket because Mr H and his wife were repatriated. 
But she thought theyd lost out because hed paid for premium economy tickets, but only 
received economy tickets. So she thought Creation should refund part of the cost of this 
ticket.
The investigator said the invoice didnt provide a breakdown between the cost of the 
outbound and inbound flights. So she thought the fairest way to estimate the cost of the 
cancelled ticket was to say each flight cost the same  i.e. £329.99 per ticket (£659.98 in 
total). She further thought that, based on her research, the average cost of a premium 
economy ticket was double the cost of an economy ticket.  So she thought Creation should 
refund 50% of the cost of the return ticket.
Mr H responded to say he didnt understand why Creation wasnt liable for his son and sons 
partners tickets. He also maintained he should be entitled to a full refund of the cost of the 
return ticket. But he said he was willing to accept the investigators opinion to resolve the 
complaint.
Creation didnt agree with the investigators opinion as it maintained there wasnt anything to 
show Mr H had paid more for the premium economy ticket. So it still didnt think it was 
required to refund anything.
As Creation didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H paid for the flights T was supposed to provide on his Creation credit card. S75 sets out 
that, in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Creation can be jointly liable for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by T.  
As I said above, in order for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied  
one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between the parties. 
In essence, the key here is that its the debtor who is entitled to make a claim against the 
creditor, and their claim against the creditor is the same as their claim against the supplier. 
So, if the debtor doesnt have a claim themselves against the supplier, they cant hold the 
creditor liable for any breach of contract.
Mr H paid for the flights with his Creation credit card, so there is a contractual relationship 
between him, Creation and T. But there were three other parties on the two bookings. Mr H 
paid for all the flights himself and the bookings are in his name. In doing so Mr H entered 
into two separate contracts with T under which T promised to fly him and his travelling party. 
Mr H bought four tickets under two bookings. But I understand that T provides each 
passenger with their own ticket which means they have their own individual contract with T  
their Conditions of Carriage. And its these contracts that T has breached. So I need to 
consider whether Creation is liable for losses arising from all the contracts.
While there are effectively four separate contracts of carriage, Mr H is only a contracting 
party on one. However, I think Mr H can still claim under S75 if he derived a joint benefit 
from the contract or the contracting party is considered a dependant. Where a person makes 
a contract on behalf of those they are financially interdependent with, they have a financial 
interest in the success of the contract, and they can (in the event of a breach) claim for 
losses experienced by those other individuals.
I think it would be accepted Mr H and his wife are likely to be financially interdependent of 
each other. Given this, I think Creation is liable for losses arising from the contracts with him 
and his wife. But Mr Hs son was of adult age when Mr H bought the ticket and I havent 
seen anything to show he was financially dependent on Mr H. So I dont think I can say that 
Creation is liable for losses arising from Mr Hs son and Mr Hs sons partner tickets and Ill 
explain why. As I said above, in considering whether Creation has a liability for Ts breach of 
contract, I need to think whether the debtor  Mr H  would have a right to claim against T in 
regards to this ticket. But, as he was not a party to that particular contract  he merely 
booked it on their behalf  I dont think he would have a right to claim  that right would rest 
with Mr Hs son and his sons partner.Ive now thought about what losses, if any, Creation are liable for. Mr H bought premium 
economy tickets, but T cancelled these flights. Clause 26.5 of the contract says, where it 
cancels a flight, T will arrange an alternative flight for Mr H. But the contract further says he 
may be entitled to a refund if he didnt want the alternative arrangements. Further to this 
Clause 28.5 says that, where it cancels the flight, it will refund the cost of the ticket.
Creation says it has no liability because Mr H was repatriated back, so he was given an 
alternative flight. Mr H says the repatriation flight wasnt arranged by T, but by the UK 
government. So he maintains hes entitled to a full refund of the cost of the return ticket 
under the terms of the contract.
Ive thought about this carefully. As I said above, S75 gives Mr H a like claim against 
Creation if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by T. Ultimately, Im 
minded to agree with Mr H that T has breached the terms of its contract with him as it didnt 
either arrange an alternative flight or provide a refund of the cost of the ticket. While Mr H 
and his wife were repatriated home, this wasnt arranged by T.
So, I now need to think whether Mr H is entitled to be compensated for this breach of 
contract. In doing so, I must give consideration to what losses Mr H would likely be able to 
recover in court against T when considering what the like claim might look like. But, in doing 
so, Im also mindful of DISP 3.7.2 R (from the FCA handbook setting out this services 
powers) which sets out that any money awards I make must be considered to be fair 
compensation whether or not a court would award compensation.
So, while I need to be mindful of what a court may award, I also need to think whats fair. 
While I accept it wasnt T who arranged an alternative flight, Mr H and his wife were flown 
home and they had to use their tickets to be eligible for this repatriation flight. I dont think it 
would be fair to require Creation to refund the full cost of the ticket because I think this would 
overly compensate them for the loss. However, Mr H paid for premium economy seats, but I 
understand they were only given economy seats. So I dont think the alternative flight 
arranged was a like-for-like arrangement and I think they have lost out.
I note Creation says there isnt anything to show Mr H paid more for the premium economy 
seats, but I think this is a disappointing approach for Creation to have taken. While I accept 
there isnt anything to show how much extra Mr H paid for premium economy seats, its 
universally known that premium economy tickets cost more than economy seats as there are 
a number of benefits available  notably considerably larger seats and legroom, together 
with complimentary alcoholic beverages. Im also conscious Mr H and his wifes tickets cost 
more than his sons tickets as his sons outbound flight was in economy class. So I dont 
think there can be any reasonable doubt that Mr H paid more for the premium economy 
seats than he would have done for economy seats. So I think it was unfair for Creation to 
have declined Mr Hs S75 claim.
Putting things right
Ive now thought about what a fair refund would be. The contract doesnt provide a 
breakdown between the cost of the outbound and inbound flights. So I agree with the 
investigator that the fairest way to estimate the cost of the cancelled ticket was to say each 
flight cost the same  i.e. £329.99 per ticket (£659.98 in total). Theres also nothing in the 
contract to show precisely how much more Mr H paid for premium economy seats so I have 
to work this out on a best estimate of the likely uplift in price. The investigator used publicly 
available information to estimate the average uplift in price, on a transatlantic route, between 
economy and premium economy tickets. Having done so, she thought premium economy 
tickets were usually twice the price of standard economy tickets. Creation hasnt given me anything to think that this was an unfair approach to take. I also think it seems a fair and 
reasonable approach.
So, taking everything into consideration, I think Creation should refund Mr H £329.99 to his 
credit card  backdating this to the date it first declined his S75 claim. It should reconstruct 
his credit card to reflect that the refund was given on this date. If, after doing so, this reveals 
that Mr H is out of pocket at any point, it should pay 8% simple interest per year on this 
amount from the date hes out of pocket until Creation refunds this.
If Creation thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that simple interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Creation Financial Services Limited to compensate Mr H in line with my instructions 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman