DRN-4127110
The complaint
Mr O complains that NewDay Ltd lent irresponsibly when it increased the credit limit on his 
Aqua and Marbles credit cards in 2021.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr O applied for a Marbles credit card in December 2018. In the application, Mr O gave his 
income as £25,000. A credit search was completed and found Mr O had four defaults, 
totalling around £4,300, that were at least 21 months old. NewDay says it found no evidence 
of arrears at the point of application. A Marbles credit card with a credit limit of £450 was 
approved.
In July 2019 the Marbles credit limit was increased to £1,050. NewDay says it reviewed Mr 
Os account activity and his credit file before deciding to proceed.
Mr O applied for an Aqua credit card with NewDay in July 2020. In this application, Mr O 
gave his income as £25,000. NewDay again looked at Mr Os credit file and noted the
defaults were now 40 months old with no arrears on existing commitments. NewDay 
approved an Aqua credit card with a limit of £900.
NewDay increased both the Aqua and Marbles credit limits on a number of occasions in 
2021. The increases occurred as follows:
Card DateExisting 
LimitNew 
Limit
Aqua Jan-21 £900 £1,700
Marbles Mar-21 £1,050 £2,550
Aqua Apr-21 £1,700 £2,700
Marbles Jul-21 £2,550 £4,700
Aqua Aug-21 £2,700 £3,700
NewDay says each time it increased the credit limit on either card it carried out affordability 
assessments and checked Mr Os credit file. And NewDay says each of the credit limit 
increases were approved in line with its lending criteria.
Both credit cards were terminated in December 2021 with defaults being recorded on Mr Os 
credit file. The debts were later sold to a third party business. Last year, Mr O complained to 
NewDay that it had lent irresponsibly when increasing his credit limit. NewDay partially 
upheld the complaint and offered to refund interest and charges applied to the Aqua credit 
card from August 2021 onwards.  NewDay agreed to refund interest and charges applied to 
the Aqua credit card on balances over £2,700 along with late and overlimit fees applied.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. We asked 
NewDay to send us its file submission. Within its submission, NewDay said it had taken the 
opportunity to review Mr Os credit cards again and wanted to offer a refund on the Marbles 
credit card from July 2021 onwards, following the credit limit increase from £2,550 to £4,700. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Os complaint. They thought NewDay had failed to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the credit cards. But the investigator 
didnt think the information Mr O had submitted showed his circumstances and didnt ask 
NewDay to take any further action.
Mr O asked to appeal and explained he was complaining about the credit limit increases in 
2021 and that the statement evidence and credit file information hed supplied already 
showed they were unaffordable. Mr O asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. I recently contacted Mr O and asked him for a full copy of his credit 
report along with more bank statements as well as information about his income and 
expenditure. Mr O supplied his credit report. Mr O advised he had submitted the necessary 
bank statements and given information about his day to day living expenses already. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigators findings, Mr O explained he was only complaining about the 
credit limit increases that occurred in 2021. NewDay has already confirmed its upheld Mr 
Os complaint about the Marbles credit limit increase to £4,700 in July 2021 and the Aqua 
credit limit increase in August 2021. So Im not going to make a finding on those increases 
as theyve already been covered.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when reviewing Mr Os complaint. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit increases, lenders may 
need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether theyre lending 
responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the customer.
Here, Mr O had two active credit cards with NewDay in 2021. In January 2021, the Aqua 
credit limit was increased to £900. At this point, the card had been open for around six 
months. NewDay says it found £1,100 when Mr O applied for the Aqua credit card but I note 
the figure had gone up to around £5,300 when the credit limit increase was approved. In my 
view, the increase in unsecured credit ought to have indicated to NewDay Mr O mayve been 
relying on credit to make ends meet. I also note that NewDay had no data from Mr Os 
original application concerning his residential status, regular outgoings or the nature of his 
declared income. And I think these factors ought to have caused NewDay to carry out better, 
more comprehensive checks before proceeding with a credit limit increase.
With that said, whilst weve asked Mr O for bank statements for the three months prior to the 
January 2021 increase, they havent been provided. So I cant verify what Aqua wouldve 
seen if it had asked for more comprehensive information, like Mr Os bank statements. As 
Im unable to see what Aqua wouldve found if it had carried out better checks in January 
2021, Im unable to say it lent irresponsibly when it approved the credit limit increase.Mr O recently sent us a full copy of his credit file. It shows Mr O has a basic bank account. 
The credit report doesnt show any other active bank accounts in Mr Os name. So, on 
balance, Im satisfied Mr O has sent us a copy of his statements for the period January 2021 
to August 2021. And Im satisfied it doesnt appear Mr O has another bank account.
As Ive said above, I think NewDay ought to have obtained more information from Mr O 
before agreeing to offer further borrowing in 2021. By this point, Mr Os lending relationship 
with NewDay was three years old. Neither application recorded how Mr Os income was 
earned, his residential status or information about his day to day living expenses. Whilst 
Aqua was able to review Mr Os account activity and credit file each month, I think the lack of 
details about his circumstances ought to have led it to carry out better checks, especially as 
the level of unsecured credit in his name was substantially higher than recorded on each of 
his applications.
Mr O has told us he wasnt receiving an income during 2021 and was borrowing money to 
make ends meet. Looking at Mr Os bank statements for the three months before the March 
2021 Marbles increase, theres no evidence of a regular income. For instance, Mr Os 
statement for February 2021 shows credits totalling £200. And whilst Mr Os outgoings 
appear to have been limited at the time, they exceeded the credits received into his account. 
In my view, had NewDay carried out better checks in March 2021 it wouldve found Mr O 
was unlikely to be in a position to sustainably manage further borrowing and decided not to 
proceed.
In much the same way, I think NewDay shouldve done more to check Mr O was able to 
afford the April 2021 Aqua credit limit increase. The bank statements on file for the three 
months before April 2021 again dont show a regular income for Mr O in line with the 
application figure of £25,000. And whilst the statements continue to show a reasonably low 
level of regular outgoings, Im satisfied the lack of a regular, income in line with the 
application figure provided, wouldve most likely led NewDay to decline to increase the Aqua 
credit limit in April 2021. Im satisfied NewDay lent irresponsibly when it approved the Aqua 
credit limit increase to £2,700 in April 2021.
As Ive noted above, NewDay has already confirmed it accepts the final credit limit increases 
on both cards were irresponsible and upheld that part of Mr Os complaint.
Based on the information Ive seen so far and for the reasons Ive given above, I intend to 
uphold Mr Os complaint and direct NewDay to refund all interest, fees and charges applied 
to the Marbles credit card from March 2021 onwards on balances over £1,050 and the Aqua 
credit card from April 2021 onwards on balances over £1,700.
I understand both credit card debts have since been sold to a third party. In resolution of the 
complaint, NewDay will potentially need to work with the new owners of the debts to ensure 
the following settlement can be put in place. It may be more appropriate for NewDay to 
retrieve the account from the new owners so it can implement the following settlement 
directly. In either case, NewDay should ensure Mr O isnt negatively impacted by the sale of 
his credit card debts to the third party.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr O responded and said that NewDay hadnt 
upheld his complaint in its final response. We didnt hear back from NewDay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr O said NewDay hadnt upheld his complaint. 
NewDays final response confirms it refunded interest applied to both his credit cards.
As neither party supplied new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Os complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to settle as follows: 
- Rework Mr Os Marbles credit card to remove all interest, fees and charges that have 
been applied to balances above £1,050 from March 2021; and
- If the effect of these reworkings results in a credit balance on the account, then this 
should be refunded to Mr O along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from 
the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, NewDay should 
remove any adverse information reported to Mr Os credit file about the Aqua credit 
card after the April 2021 increase was applied; or
- If an outstanding balance remains on the Marbles account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay needs to ensure that Mr O is only liable for this adjusted 
balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan. Once Mr O has cleared the 
outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded about the Marbles credit card 
after March 2021 should be removed from his credit file.
And
- Rework Mr Os Aqua credit card to remove all interest, fees and charges that have 
been applied to balances above £1,700 from April 2021; and
- If the effect of these reworkings results in a credit balance on the account, then this 
should be refunded to Mr O along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from 
the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, NewDay should 
remove any adverse information reported to Mr Os credit file about the Aqua credit 
card after the April 2021 increase was applied; or
- If an outstanding balance remains on the Marbles account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay needs to ensure that Mr O is only liable for this adjusted 
balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan. Once Mr O has cleared the 
outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded about the Marbles credit card 
after March 2021 should be removed from his credit file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman