DRN-1731496
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG has declined a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M lost his mobile phone on holliday. He made a claim which was declined because Mr M 
didnt have cover for mobile phones under his policy. Mr M complained to the insurance 
provider involved in the sale of the policy who didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr M then complained to URV that the summary of cover, the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID), provided during the sales process was unclear. 
URV didnt uphold this complaint because they said the IPID was a summary of cover and 
policyholders are encouraged to check the more detailed policy terms. They said it was clear 
from the policy documents that mobile phones arent covered and therefore it was 
reasonable to decline the claim. Mr M made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that the policy summary and the policy documents say that mobile phones arent covered. 
So he didnt think it was unfair for the claim to be declined. 
Mr M didnt agree. He says it wasnt an option to buy gadget cover and that this was the 
main reason he took out the policy. He says he selected the platinum level of cover because 
of his phone and that this was what the cover was for. He said the IPID document URV had 
sent our service was different from the one hed been sent. So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ms phone was stolen and I can understand his disappointment that 
it wasnt covered under his travel insurance policy. 
the information provided in the IPID
In responding to Mr Ms complaint URV has accepted that the IPID, and its contents, is their 
responsibility. So, whilst they werent responsible for the sales process, the relevant rules 
and industry guidelines say that the policy documents should provide Mr M with enough 
clear, fair and non-misleading information to decide if the policy was right for him.  
Mr M says that the IPID he received is different to the one which URV has provided to our 
service. He says, in summary, that there is no mention of gadget cover as an optional extra 
and that therefore it was reasonable to assume it fell within the section of the policy covering 
possessions, which would have provided enough cover for the mobile phone he wanted to 
insure. 
However, the IPID Mr M has provided is silent on whether there is gadget cover or not. It 
isnt mentioned at all on the IPID either in the section outlining what is covered or the section 
saying what isnt covered. Neither is it set out in the list of optional extras. So Im not 
satisfied this document would have made clear to Mr M what the policy did and didnt cover 
in relation to gadgets. But it doesnt automatically follow that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr M says hed done his research as cover for the mobile phone was particularly important 
to him. In summary he says it was the only item of value and that was the main reason for 
taking out insurance and this particular policy. 
The IPID is a summary of the key cover available under the policy. As the IPID is silent on 
this point Id have expected him check the policy terms given that Mr M was said that getting 
cover for his mobile was the main reason he took out insurance.   
I appreciate that Mr M feels most people would consider a mobile phone a possession. But 
the policy has a specific definition of possessions and it doesnt include mobile phones. 
Thats not uncommon in the travel insurance industry and lots of providers charge more to 
cover phones and gadgets to reflect the associated risk of insuring them
The IPID and full policy terms were available to Mr M before and after purchase and that he 
was directed to check them both before buying the policy. In the policy terms there is a 
summary of cover. Under the section covering loss and theft of personal possessions it sets 
out what the policy will and wont cover. It says, Cover is only provided if  you are not 
claiming for a mobile/smart phone, gadgets, accessories or calls. The more detailed terms 
and conditions also contain a similar warning and say that no cover is provided for mobile 
phones. So, upon checking the terms as directed to, I think it ought to have been reasonably 
clear to Mr M that this policy didnt include cover for mobile phones and it didnt fall within the 
policy definition of possessions. 
 
The policy terms provided a 14 day cooling off period in which Mr M could cancel if, having 
reviewed the policy documents, he didnt think the policy was right for him. 
The declined claim
As Ive outlined above there is no cover for mobile phones under this policy. Mobile phones 
dont fall within the definition of possessions. So I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to 
decline the claim.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman