DRN-1892511
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the service theyve received from AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a private health insurance policy. The policy is a group scheme set up for 
pensioners and was a benefit available to Mr and Mrs P on Mr Ps retirement. The scheme 
works by the premiums being deducted from Mr Ps pension. AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
underwrites the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy primarily because AXA didnt tell them that the scheme had 
closed to new members. They say thats a change in the terms and conditions and that, 
because the scheme is closed to new members, this will impact on the benefits of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P think they should have been told about this back in 2010. They say that had 
they known this information theyd have had the opportunity to explore different individual 
policy options and that, by now, theyd likely have built up a good no claims discount or 
passed the moratorium period. Mr and Mrs P complained to AXA. 
AXA said that the scheme closed by default in 2016 and, following a review and discussions 
with the regulator, they decided to move all members of the scheme over to individual new 
personal policies. AXA said they were entitled to make changes to the plan offered and 
could decide to no longer accept new member to the group. However, they did acknowledge 
that theyd spoke to Mr P in 2015 about the options for his cover and could have offered him 
the opportunity to leave the group then. They offered Mr and Mrs P a number of different 
options with other personal policies in recognition of this, including backdating the enrolment 
to 2015 where appropriate. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
She didnt think AXA should have notified Mr and Mrs P of the default closure of the scheme 
and that AXA had acted reasonably by offering a number of different options for them to 
consider.   
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and sent a detailed response to the investigator. In summary they 
said: 
Their understanding of the basis upon which they had entered into the original 
contract had changed, even if the policy terms and conditions hadnt 
The pricing of the policy is key and this policy was priced more favourably because it 
was offered as part of Mr Ps employee benefits
They made the ongoing assumption that the pricing was more generous than that on 
offer to the general public
They are members of a group arrangement who dont regard themselves as 
individual policy holders
No new retirees could join the scheme after 2010 as they wouldnt be eligible 
All knowledge of the scheme rested with AXA. 
So, I need to make a decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have made a number of detailed representations but Ill focus on those I 
consider to be central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not upholding Mrs and Mrs Ps complaint because: 
I dont think AXA needed to notify Mr and Mrs P of the changes to the group scheme 
in 2010. They were entitled to make a commercial decision not to admit new 
members to the group. Mr P argues this meant the scheme effectively closed at that 
point, although it didnt actually close until 2016 when his former employers business 
was sold on to a different business. But ultimately, Mr and Mrs P were beneficiaries 
of the group scheme - they arent the policy holders or administrators. So, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to say that AXA should have notified them of a 
commercial decision they took in relation to the scheme
Mr P says hes been unable to make an informed choice about the policy when it has 
renewed after 2010 because he wasnt aware of the closure of the group scheme to 
new members. But, even I accepted that AXA should have told Mr and Mrs P about 
this, I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say, in summary, that AXA should provide 
enough information to enable Mr and Mrs P to decide if the group scheme 
membership was right for them. He says that hes been under the misapprehension 
that he was getting a better deal than would usually be available to the general 
public. But, Mr P knew the price of the membership when it renewed each year. So, if 
cost was particularly important to Mr P then it was always open to him to compare 
prices at renewal with other providers. And he didnt raise any concerns about the 
cost until 2015. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were able to make an 
informed choice about their membership  
Mr P argues that they have been disadvantaged because the numbers in the scheme 
will have dwindled and so it will have pushed the prices up. But theres no tangible 
evidence to suggest that this has had a negative impact on Mr and Mrs P as 
members of the group scheme. My role is to consider the evidence in their case, as 
opposed to the impact on the wider group members. And the evidence available to 
me hasnt demonstrated any negative impact on Mr and Mrs P that AXA needs to put 
right 
AXA has acknowledged that there was an opportunity to discuss leaving the group 
when Mr P contacted them in 2015 about the cost of the scheme. So, I think thats a reasonable point for AXA to say that Mr and Mrs P may have looked to join individual 
plans. AXA has provided Mr P with a number of detailed options, including the 
opportunity to join individual plans. Theyve offered to backdate the policies to 2015 if 
Mr P wishes to leave the group scheme and reconstruct any applicable discounts 
such as the no claims discount. I think thats fair and reasonable as it places Mr and 
Mrs P in the same position theyd have been in back in 2015, if theyd have wanted to 
change to a different type of policy. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman