DRN-4368968
The complaint
Ms F and Ms F complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc recorded a claim on their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F and Ms F hold a home insurance policy with AXA. Following a period of heavy rainfall 
their home was damaged by water entering their property because of a blocked drain owned 
by the local water company.
AXA accepted the claim and recorded it as a flood claim. But Ms F and Ms F dont think 
thats fair because its made it much more difficult for them to get insurance ging forward  
because they say many insurers now see their property as a flood risk. They think it would 
be fairer to record the claim as an escape of water.
AXA said it understands why Ms F and Ms F are concerned, but it feels its accurately and 
fairly recorded the claim as a flood.
Ms F and Ms F remained unhappy and brought their claim to us.
One of our Investigators didnt think it should be upheld. He too thought the claim was fairly 
recorded as a flood claim based on the circumstances.
Ms F and Ms F didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
I understand why Ms F and Ms F arent happy with how their claim has been 
recorded. And I understand the impact caused by having the claim recorded as a 
flood is having.
But, Im satisfied AXA is acting fairly when recording the claim as a flood claim. 
Ultimately water entered the property from an external source following heavy 
rainfall.
I accept this most likely wouldnt have happened had the drain not been blocked. But 
it could also be argued that it also wouldnt have happened had the weather not been 
what it was in the lead up to the incident.
In any event, there was no escape of water from the property. The water entered 
from an external source and so Im satisfied thats fairly been recorded as a flood.
I understand Ms F and Ms F arent happy with the advisor on the first call changing 
the claim to a flood in order to charge a lower excess. But ultimately I dont think this 
is pivotal to how the claim is recorded.
Its been recorded based on the circumstances that caused the damage. And as set 
out above, Im satisfied thats fairly been determined and recorded as a flood.
I cant fairly hold AXA responsible for how other insurers assess this risk once they 
know all the details of it  I can only consider whether its accurately recorded this 
claim. And Im satisfied it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman