DRN-4226222
The complaint
W complains that Covea Insurance plc declined its claim on its property insurance policy for 
subsidence.
Mr D is a director of W and brings this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
W is a property management company for a building containing three flats. Mr D arranges 
insurance for the building through a broker. In 2020 the broker arranged the policy with 
Covea and the policy renewed each year.
In October 2022 Mr D made a claim under the subsidence cover due to cracks in the 
building. Covea sent an expert to inspect the damage but subsequently declined the claim. It 
said a tenant in one of the flats had said the cracks had been present for around ten years. 
So Covea concluded the damage had happened before the inception of the policy and 
therefore wouldnt be covered.
Mr D didnt think this was fair. He said he had made claims on a number of occasions with 
previous insurers but they had concluded the damage was due to thermal movement and 
not subsidence. He made a complaint but Covea didnt uphold it so he brought it to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said if the historic cracks in the 
building were not caused by the current subsidence then Covea wouldnt be responsible for 
these. But as it had shown there was an ongoing subsidence issue it was responsible for 
dealing with that claim. 
Mr D accepted our investigators outcome however Covea didnt respond. So the matter has 
come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is of note that Covea has provided this service with no information in relation to this 
complaint, despite being given ample opportunity to do so. Nor has it responded to our 
investigators outcome. 
The rules that govern this service are laid out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook  the Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP). DISP 3.5.1 states that 
The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage and by 
whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate
As Covea has been given many months to provide information, I dont believe it would be fair 
to delay matters any further. And Mr D has provided the reports carried out by Covea and all 
the relevant policy information, so I consider this enough to make a fair assessment of the 
complaint. I therefore consider it appropriate to proceed to a decision based on the evidence 
available, without waiting further for a response from Covea.
Covea has said that as the cracks at the property developed before the inception of the 
policy then the subsidence issues wouldnt be covered. Its relied on the following exclusion 
to the subsidence cover:
We will not be liable under this Extension for: 
Damage which commenced prior to the inception of the cover under this Extension
It isnt in dispute that the building has had problems with cracking before the inception of the 
current policy. Mr D has been very open about the previous claims he has made on policies 
in 2011 and 2017. The claim in 2011 was suspected to be subsidence but the repairs fell 
under the amount listed as the excess so W funded the necessary repairs itself. Whereas 
the claim in 2017 was concluded to be due to thermal movement. 
So I can see that the property has been suffering from problems with cracking for some time. 
However, Mr D has explained that the most recent incident has caused new cracks that are 
wider and larger. And Covea has identified it as being an ongoing instance of subsidence 
caused by a nearby tree. And while its said some of the cracks have been present for some 
time, its provided no evidence to show that the current damage is linked to the previous 
instance of thermal movement or subsidence. 
As this instance of subsidence has only just been identified, has caused cracks in different 
areas of the property, and is ongoing, I dont think Covea has done enough to show that the 
exclusion applies here. 
Ive also considered industry guidance and best practice. Theres an agreement published 
by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), which applies to how domestic subsidence 
claims should be dealt with. The guidance explains that if the claim is notified more than 
eight weeks after the start of the policy and the cause of the damage is ongoing under the 
new policy term, then the current insurer should deal with the damage that is currently 
ongoing.
Based on this I dont think Covea has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Ws claim. Its 
provided no evidence to show that the current issues are linked to previous ones. And it has 
an obligation under the ABI agreement to deal with new claims that arise during the term of 
policy cover. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should reconsider Ws claim for the 
ongoing subsidence in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Ws complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to reconsider its claim for subsidence without applying the exclusion for pre-inception damage, 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
W, to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman