DRN-3262803
The complaint
Miss C says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss C took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of her borrowing follows. Loan 2 
was used in part to settle loan 1.
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 14/12/2018 2,000 18 212.86 3,831.48
2 06/02/2020 2,000 18 212.32 3,821.76
Miss C says ELL failed to carry out proportionate checks and the loans were not affordable 
for her. 
Our investigator said Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. He said the checks were 
proportionate but based on the information it gathered ELL was wrong to give both loans 1 
and 2 to Miss C.
ELL disagreed that it was wrong to give loan 1. It said, in summary, Miss Cs credit checks 
showed she was managing her credit reasonably well; it was unfair to base an analysis of 
her finances on pre-Christmas spend; and its affordability assessment showed Miss C would 
be left with a good level of disposable income after taking on loan 1. It agreed that it was 
wrong to give loan 2 to Miss C and said it would put this right in line with the direction our 
investigator set out.
Miss C rejected ELLs offer to solely uphold her complaint in relation to loan 2 and asked for 
an ombudsmans review. So the complaint was passed to me. As an agreement was 
reached on loan 2, and both parties now agree it shouldnt have been given, I will focus on 
loan 1. But I will consider both loans when I set out what ELL needs to do next.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Miss C required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss C. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Miss C. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Cs 
first loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make a fair lending decision?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Miss C before it approved loan 1. It asked for
details of her income and checked this on recent bank statements. It estimated her living 
costs using national statistics. It also checked Miss Cs credit file to understand her existing 
monthly credit commitments and credit history. And finally it asked about the purpose of the 
loan which was for home improvements. 
From these checks combined ELL concluded Miss C would have monthly disposable income 
of £811.74 after taking on the loan and so it was affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not persuaded ELL made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
From its credit check and what ELL saw on Miss Cs bank statements it calculated that she 
was spending around £485 each month on her existing credit commitments. Giving this loan 
meant Miss C would be increasing that commitment to over £700 each month  a significant 
proportion of her income. I think ELL ought to have been concerned that increasing the 
amount she needed to spend each month to service her debt to such a level created a risk 
that she would be unable to sustainably repay the loan over its 18-month term. It could see on her bank statements she was already incurring frequent daily overdraft fees 
and direct debits were at times failing. And from its credit check it could see that she was 
over her limit and in arrears on a mail order account; almost at her limit on two credit cards 
account and there were a couple of recent missed payments on a home credit account. So 
already, even with the £485 of monthly credit commitments, it seemed Miss C was struggling 
to maintain financial stability. And ELL needed to consider this - i.e. the sustainability of the 
repayments, not just the pounds and pence affordability - to meet its regulatory 
commitments. I think, on balance, there is sufficient evidence to conclude that increasing 
Miss Cs borrowings and monthly credit commitments was most likely to be financially 
harmful to her.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Miss C, in addition to loan 2 as agreed by 
the parties.
I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Miss C.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to her. 
I understand ELL has sold the outstanding balance of loan 2. It should first buy this back if it 
is able to. If not, it should work with the new owner to achieve the same outcome as the 
steps set out below.
ELL should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss C received as a result of being given loans 1
and 2. The repayments Miss C made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in her having effectively made over payments then ELL should refund
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If there is any capital balance outstanding ELL must try to agree an affordable
payment plan with Miss C.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Miss C a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) must put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman