DRN-3655383
The complaint
Mr M and Mr L complain that Atom Bank PLC wont allow them to use the overpayment 
allowance of 20% per year, as part of a redemption of their mortgage. They say this should 
be used to reduce the Early Redemption Charge (ERC) payable on their mortgage.
What happened
This mortgage is held jointly by Mr M and Mr L, but as Mr M has brought this complaint to 
our service, I will mainly refer to him in my response.
Mr M and Mr L took out this mortgage with Atom in mid-2021. They opted for an interest rate 
which was fixed until 31 March 2023.
Section 8 of their offer document says an ERC is payable if the mortgage is redeemed in the
first two years. Section 9 says that during the period in which an ERC is payable, Mr M and 
Mr L can make overpayments of up to 20% of your mortgage each year (your allowance")
without incurring an early repayment charge. The overpayments can be made by regular
monthly payments or a lump sum.
Mr M asked Atom how the ERC on his mortgage was calculated. He was trying to work out if
he would be better off moving this mortgage elsewhere. Mr M said it was difficult to contact
Atom, as the online chats kept timing out. Atom apologised for this, and offered Mr M £25.
Mr M had understood that he could use the right to make overpayments on his mortgage, to
reduce the ERC which was payable on redemption. But he said that when Atom sent him a
redemption statement, it didnt work like this.
Atoms redemption statement worked out the ERC for Mr Ms mortgage as a percentage of
the full loan amount. Mr M said this didnt allow for the 20% overpayment hes allowed to
make, without triggering an ERC, on this mortgage every year. He said theres nothing in the
offer document he received which stops him from using some of the money sent to redeem
his mortgage to form an overpayment, and then the rest to redeem the mortgage. Treating
the payment in this way would reduce the ERC.
Atom said the 20% overpayment facility on Mr Ms mortgage only applies to overpayments,
not to a full redemption of the mortgage.
Mr M said he couldnt work out the financial implications of exiting this mortgage deal before
the end of the initial period, until he had confirmation of how charges were applied. So he
said he no longer had confidence in what Atom Bank was telling him, and he thought the
lack of transparency was anti-competitive.
Mr M thought the first 20% of any final redemption payment should be treated as an 
overpayment and not attract a fee, with the ERC then levied on the remaining amount. Mr M 
said because it had been so difficult to get Atom to confirm this, he wanted compensation to
reflect the time and effort hed spent on this complaint.
Mr M then wrote again when we were considering this complaint, to say it was now too late
for him to move the mortgage. He said he would have been better off if hed been able to do
that (assuming the ERC was charged as hed expected) because he could have locked in a
lower rate elsewhere. Mr M said he couldnt do this now as rates had risen, so he wanted
Atoms compensation to reflect a loss which he said would be around £8,000 to £9,000.
Mr M thought it was key that the terms of his mortgage allow him to make overpayments of
20% of the value of the mortgage in each of the first two years without paying a fee. And that
the terms contain no restriction on how or when that overpayment can be made. Specifically,
theres no requirement for the overpayment to be made separately to a complete repayment
of the mortgage, in order to benefit from the first 20% each year being fee free.
Mr M said other mortgage agreements with other banks typically specify restrictions around
fee-free overpayment, in a way that Atom did not.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the overpayment
facility lets Mr M use savings to overpay the mortgage. But our investigator didnt think it
means 20% of the loan is free from any ERC when its redeemed. The overpayment couldnt
come from the remortgage funds of a new lender. And he didnt think the offer document
implied otherwise. So our investigator thought what Atom had told Mr M was in line with the
terms of the mortgage.
Mr M didnt agree. He wanted to know which parts of the Financial Conduct Authoritys
Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook we had referred to in reaching this view. He
thought we should refer to provisions of the sourcebook on early repayment when forming
our judgment.
Mr M also said we were allowing Atom to implement new conditions on ERC-free allowances
which werent in the terms hed agreed to. The terms didnt say that an overpayment had to
come from his savings. So he was concerned that we were just familiar with the specific
terms used in mortgage agreements  and we were giving those terms a specific meaning,
which wasnt actually defined in his agreement. Mr M thought Atom should make sure there
was no room for misinterpretation, and when there was some ambiguity, then we shouldnt
be interpreting that in favour of the bank. He said that the Mortgage Code of Business
sourcebook required firms to make available clear and comprehensible information ... that
includes:... (10A) a description of the conditions directly relating to early repayment.".
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He didnt think Atom had implemented new
conditions. He thought it was following what was set out in the offer document. And he said
lenders who allow customers to make overpayments do this so customers can pay off their
mortgage sooner if they have spare cash available  but its not there to provide a waiver of
early repayment fees if a mortgage is switched to a new lender within the fixed rate period.
Mr M wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr Ms argument is based on the fact that the word overpayment in his mortgage offer, 
and in the terms of his mortgage, isnt defined. So he said that Atom hasnt excluded a 
payment made to redeem his mortgage from this term.But I dont think Atom has to define the term overpayment because I think it takes its 
ordinary meaning. I know Mr M says other lenders do define this quite precisely, but I 
dont think that Atom should be penalised for its efforts to communicate in plain English.
So when Atom refers to overpayment I think that it means just what it says - a payment 
of more than is then due.
If Mr M pays more per month than his contractual monthly payment, then hes paying 
more than is due at that time. And that counts as an overpayment. He knows that he 
can overpay by up to 20% of his mortgage amount in each of the first two years.
But when Mr M makes one final payment to clear the balance of his mortgage, he isnt 
making an overpayment. He is doing something quite specific  paying off the mortgage 
and moving his lending elsewhere. Thats what our investigator referred to as a 
redemption. And when he does that, hes only paying exactly what is owed at that time, 
in order to clear the mortgage. Theres no overpayment in the ordinary sense of the 
word, if he does that.
I think its clear that Atom is using the term in this way, just from the offer document 
itself. The section on Flexible features only refers to overpayments as payments which 
are made while the mortgage remains in place, but which are more than is owed at that 
time. And the redemption statement Mr M received also says this If an overpayment is 
made at redemption, we'll refund this into the account where your regular Direct Debit 
payments come from. So, in other words, if Mr M pays more than is due at the time of 
redemption, then Atom will just pay that back.
All of that is consistent with Atom just giving overpayment its ordinary meaning. And I 
think that is also consistent with the requirement for clear and comprehensible 
information that Mr M drew our attention to.
I understand that Atom may not initially have been clear with Mr M about how his 
redemption amount would be calculated, but any error appears to have been corrected 
within an hour or two. And although I understand that Mr M found the chat process 
frustrating, I can see he was able to reconnect when the link dropped. So I dont think 
that Atom has to do more than it has already offered here, to pay £25, for this part of Mr 
Ms complaint. I expect that this offer is still open to Mr M and Mr L, and Ill leave it to 
them to decide whether to accept it, if they havent done so already.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Atom responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision, and had nothing to add.
Mr M replied on behalf of himself and Mr L. He said he agreed with my suggestion that 
overpayment simply meant a payment of more than is then due. But he thought this 
supported his argument. He said thats why he thought no charge should be payable on the 
first 20% of repayment above what is contractually required (in any mortgage year). He said 
thats the case whether the overpayment results in the total repayment of the mortgage or 
not. He said an overpayment resulting in complete repayment was just one of many types of 
overpayment he could make. I think Mr M here is only looking at part of my decision. I said I thought that an overpayment 
was a payment of more than is then due. I also said that if Mr M pays more per month than 
his contractual payment, hes paying more than is due. But I went on to say that if Mr M 
arranges a redemption - receiving a redemption statement which sets out how much money 
is needed to clear the mortgage, and arranging the legal work involved in the removal of a 
charge over his property, once that payment is made - and then Mr M pays the amount on 
that redemption statement, he isnt overpaying. Hes paying whats due at that time, to 
achieve the thing he wants, the redemption of his mortgage.
Mr M said that only someone with a high level of familiarity with industry conventions about 
mortgages would take a narrower interpretation of the word overpayment so that it would 
exclude a redemption. Mr M said it was unfair to have unwritten industry conventions about 
what words mean which are not clear or transparent for consumers, up front. And he said 
that if Atom wanted to restrict how it would treat types or circumstances of overpayment, 
then it needed to be crystal clear and explicit in plain English, at the point a consumer can 
make an informed decision about their product. 
Mr M said plenty of other mortgage lenders have managed to be completely clear and 
explicit in their terms. He said I didnt seem to consider that other lenders had done this, and 
had thought that this was necessary, when I looked at his complaint.
Mr M had made this contrast between the terms in his mortgage with Atom and the terms set 
out by other lenders in his earlier arguments to us, so I did consider that other lenders have 
taken a more in depth and complex approach to setting out terms when I reached my 
provisional decision. I also noted that Atom has sought to set out its terms in plain English, 
making them more accessible to more of its borrowers. Mr M considers that this action by 
Atom has introduced ambiguity, and he feels that Atom ought to have worked to avoid this. 
But I havent agreed with Mr Ms reading of the terms of his mortgage. And I dont consider 
thats because of particular familiarity with those terms, I think its just for the reasons Ive set 
out above. Because I think that the more natural reading of Mr Ms terms is as Ive set out 
above, I also think that it would not be fair and reasonable for me to reach a decision which 
finds in favour of Mr M on the basis of an ambiguity that I dont think forms part of the natural 
reading of the terms. And I noted in my provisional decision that any such finding would also, 
in effect, penalise Atom for using more user-friendly language in its terms and conditions.
Mr M said I had noted his suggestion that our service should refer explicitly to unnamed 
provisions of the mortgage sourcebook, but I hadnt referred to it. He said he wanted to alert 
me specifically to the provisions on repayment charges, which set out that any repayment 
charge has to reflect actual costs to lenders (in aggregate). Mr M said that because of these 
provisions, he didnt believe Atom could discriminate fees between additional payments 
clearing the mortgage entirely as against additional payments which dont, unless it could 
show that there were materially different costs for it resulting from the former, vs the latter. 
Mr M said he expected me to ask Atom to provide evidence of these costs in as part of my 
broader consideration of whether Atoms proposed charging was fair (and therefore should 
be upheld).
Before our service can consider a complaint, the business involved has to be given a chance 
to respond to that issue. I understand Mr M is arguing that this new point, whether Atom has 
breached provisions of the mortgage sourcebook by charging an ERC on the whole of his 
redemption payment, forms part of his overarching complaint  is the ERC fair? But I dont 
agree  I think Mr Ms initial complaint to us was that what Atom was doing didnt fit with the 
terms he and Mr L had agreed to. Atom hasnt been given any opportunity to respond to a complaint that the ERC it applies to 
a redemption isnt a reasonable pre-estimate of costs within the requirements set out in the 
mortgage sourcebook. And I dont think its fair to both sides to suggest that what I consider 
to be a significant extension of Mr Ms original complaint should be included at this stage. So 
I leave it to Mr M to raise this with Atom in the first instance, if he wishes to do so.
Mr M also said what Atom had written in a redemption statement wasnt relevant to whether 
its terms were fair or clear at the outset. He said the redemption statement may be an 
accurate reflection of its position, but it was not evidence of its merits, was not available 
when he took out the mortgage, and formed no part of his contract with Atom. Mr M said its 
too late providing clarity months after the mortgage is taken out - this needs to be up front.
I said in my provisional decision that I think its clear that Atom is using the term 
[overpayment] in this way, just from the offer document itself. So I have not relied on the 
evidence from Mr Ms later redemption statement to decide on the meaning of this term. I 
simply noted that later usage of this word is also consistent with what I consider to be Atoms 
overall approach.
Mr M said his primary interest at this stage was in ensuring Atom sorted its terms out for the 
benefit of prospective customers. Mr M said it wasnt fair for a lender to compete on the 
basis of ambiguous terms, especially where they are making a specific selling point out of 
being able to make significant percentage of overpayments without fees.
Our service isnt a regulator, and I cannot require Atom to make overarching changes to its 
terms for the benefit of future customers. What I can do is look at the specific circumstances 
of a complaint brought to our service. Thats what Ive done here, and though I have 
considered Mr Ms additional points carefully, I havent agreed with him. I understand that 
Mr M will be disappointed, but for the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman