DRN-4216685
The complaint
The executors of the estates of Mr C and Mrs C, represented by Mr A, are complaining 
about the advice given to Mr and Mrs C by Stephen Baker Financial Consultants Ltd (SBFC) 
before they merged with Futura Wealth Management Ltd. 
What happened
The late Mr and Mrs C were advised by SBFC from 2010 until their deaths, in 2017 and 
2020 respectively. The representatives of their estates complained to SBFC in 2021, raising 
the following complaint points:
SBFCs advice to Mr and Mrs C in 2011 to invest in a General Investment Account 
(GIA) was unsuitable.
The advice to invest in a bond in 2015 was unsuitable based on Mr and Mrs Cs 
investing experience, appetite for risk, objectives, and age.
SBFC havent been able to provide any documentation which explains why they 
recommended the bond be purchased via a discretionary loan trust (DLT). 
The DLT wasnt established correctly, meaning that it didnt protect the estate from 
inheritance tax (IHT) as intended. 
SBFC attempted to cover up the lack of a DLT which meant the executors had to 
spend a significant amount on accountant fees to try to understand what had 
happened.
Theres no evidence that SBFC carried out any regular reviews of Mr and Mrs Cs 
investments. The executors say this would have been particularly important after 
Mr Cs death. Theyve suggested ongoing fees paid by Mr and Mrs Cs investment 
providers to SBFC should be refunded to the estate as they dont think SBFC 
provided an ongoing service.
SBFC didnt uphold the complaint, so the executors brought it to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. His view was that the investment advice SBFC provided in 2011 
and 2015 wasnt unsuitable. But he concluded that SBFC didnt set up the DLT correctly and 
therefore ought to be held responsible for the consequences of that error. He also said 
SBFC ought to have advised Mr and Mrs C to have placed the bond in either a joint loan 
trust or two separate loan trusts. If they had done, half of the original loan would have been 
repayable when Mr C died, and the ongoing advice fee would have been halved.
SBFC werent happy with our investigators view. They said they were confident their advice 
had been suitable. They added that they werent supposed to be advising on mitigating IHT 
and so would have been within their rights not to have discussed a trust at all. In relation to 
the failure to establish the trust, they felt the bond provider had let them down by not 
informing them that the trust hadnt been properly set up. They didnt think a financial loss 
had arisen from the bond not having been placed in trust. 
Mr A also had comments on the investigators view. He said that SBFCs delay in telling the 
executors that the DLT hadnt been established had had a significant impact on the level of 
stress and distress felt by the executors after Mrs Cs death. He added that he didnt think 
the advice to invest in the bond was suitable  because the DLT didnt exist. He felt that the 
two couldnt be separated and therefore all fees in relation to the bond and trust should be 
refunded, not just the fees charged after Mr Cs death. Finally, Mr A disagreed with our 
investigators assessment of the advice given by SBFC in the years following Mr Cs death. 
As a minimum, he said, SBFC should have advised Mrs C in late 2017 on the importance of 
taking actions in relation to the DLT they thought theyd established.
When I looked at the complaint, I had a different view on appropriate compensation, so I 
issued a provisional decision on 3 May 2023. In summary, my provisional decision said:
Neither party has disagreed with our investigators view that SBFCs advice in 2011 
to invest in the GIA was suitable. Ive reviewed the documents from the time and 
have formed the same view as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
SBFCs suitability letter dated October 2015 sets out their understanding of Mr and 
Mrs Cs objectives at the time. This includes outperforming the returns available on 
cash, having a high level of capital guarantee, and managing potential IHT liabilities. 
This is consistent with an SBFC letter dated September 2015 which said that the 
bond would be placed in a loan trust so that the capital was fully accessible at all 
times but that any growth would be outside the estate which would mitigate IHT. 
Despite what SBFC have said in response to the complaint, it seems clear from this 
letter that IHT was part of the reason for using a trust. 
Mr and Mrs Cs top priorities were investment planning, maintaining their standard of 
living, family security, reducing tax burden, and mitigating IHT. It added that they held 
too much in cash and single equities  which meant there was a risk of erosion  and 
that they could be more tax efficient. It also seems that Mr and Mrs C wanted to keep 
control of their capital, and that they had a cautious attitude to risk. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the bond SBFC recommended was 
unsuitable. It was a low risk investment with a guaranteed minimum value at the end 
of the term, or on death of the lives assured. So Im satisfied the bond met most of Mr 
and Mrs Cs objectives and reduced their cash holdings. On its own it didnt meet 
their IHT mitigation objective. But the advice to place the bond in a DLT did help with 
this  it meant that any growth in the bond would fall outside of Mr and Mrs Cs estate 
 because the bond would be owned by the trust.
Theres a lack of documentation of SBFCs advice in relation to the trust. But it 
seems they advised Mr and Mrs C to set this up as a single loan trust  the trust 
deed shows Mr C as the sole settlor. As our investigator noted, the funds placed in 
the bond were jointly owned by Mr and Mrs C, and the bond was in their joint names 
 so the DLT should have been a joint loan trust with joint settlors to mirror that.
When establishing a DLT, the trust needs to be created first so that the settlor can 
loan money to the trust and the trustees then invest that money in the bond. But this 
isnt what happened in Mr and Mrs Cs case. The bond application was submitted, 
and the investment made on 21 October 2015  then the trust deed was signed on 6 
November 2015. SBFC say its not their fault that the DLT wasnt correctly 
established  theyve blamed the bond provider. I disagree. SBFC should have been 
aware of how a DLT needs to be set up. It follows that I think theyre responsible for 
any consequences of their failure to establish the DLT. 
In April 2021, SBFC told the executors that the bond provider had suggested the 
bond might not be held in trust and added As soon as they get back to me I will in 
turn get back to you. The bond provider emailed SBFC on 28 April 2021, saying: 
The Plan was not placed in a Discretionary Loan Trust. A Loan Trust can only be 
established before the Plan invests, as the Settlor loans the premium.
SBFC say they told Mr Cs son on the phone that the trust hadnt been established on the same day. Ive seen no evidence that this was the case. Everything Ive seen 
suggests that the executors remained unaware that the trust hadnt been set up 
properly until SBFC confirmed this in an email in November 2021. 
In relation to ongoing advice, Im satisfied SBFC offered regular reviews, which Mr 
and Mrs C rarely took them up on. And theyd offered advice to Mr and Mrs Cs 
children after Mr Cs death. So I didnt agree that SBFC hadnt offered any advice 
after Mr Cs death. However, had the DLT been established correctly, it would have 
been beneficial for the bond to be surrendered and the loan repaid in the tax year of 
the settlors death. SBFC should have known this and Id expect them to have 
advised Mr Cs executors of this in the months following his death  but they didnt. 
So its fair to say SBFCs advice was lacking at times.
In my provisional decision I went on to think about putting things right  and said:
When thinking about compensation, my aim is to put the estate in the position it would 
have been in had SBFC not made any errors.
As Ive outlined above, SBFCs main error was in not correctly setting up the DLT. This 
was followed by not specifically advising Mr Cs executors to surrender half of the bond, 
and by not clearly communicating to the executors that the DLT had not in fact been 
established.
I think its fair to say if SBFC had got things right, the bond would have been purchased 
by a joint DLT in Mr and Mrs Cs names. And half of that would have been surrendered 
within the tax year in which Mr C died, with the remaining half being surrendered within 
the tax year of Mrs Cs death.
If this had been the case, Im inclined to say the following would have happened:
Half of the growth the bond had achieved by October 2017 would have been 
taxed as Mr Cs income  with that half of the bond achieving no further growth 
beyond that date as it would have been surrendered;
Mrs C would likely have retained the funds in cash, given her very cautious 
attitude to risk  so would have achieved further growth only at the average rate 
of return on cash1 for the period from Mr Cs death to her own death  the funds 
plus that growth would have been included in Mrs Cs estate and subject to IHT;
The remaining half of the bond would have continued to achieve growth  the 
bond would have been surrendered in the tax year of Mrs Cs death and the 
growth taxed as her income;
The second half of the initial loan (£25,000) would have been included in Mrs Cs 
estate as a debt due to the estate and would have been subject to IHT; and
There would have been no further tax implications.
The executors and Mr A have understandably lost faith in SBFC. So Im inclined to say 
they should ask a suitably qualified financial advisor to calculate the difference between 
the net return2 that would have been achieved given what Ive set out above and the net 
return2  actually achieved on the bond. SBFC should pay any difference to the estate 
together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date the estate paid its IHT liability 
to the date of settlement. SBFC should also cover the costs of the independent financial 
advisor. 
1 This should be assumed to be equivalent to the rates published by the Bank of England 
(BoE) showing the average return from one-year fixed rate bonds.
2 Net return is the total value of the growth on the bond (and, where applicable, on the cash) 
less all income tax and IHT paid or payable in relation to the investments.In relation to fees, SBFC would have been entitled to charge the initial advice fee and the 
ongoing advice fees if they had correctly set up the trust. So if Im asking SBFC to put the 
estate in the position it would be in if theyd correctly set up the trust its not fair to also 
say they should refund the fees. But the ongoing advice fee in relation to the bond would 
have been reduced by half from the date of Mr Cs death because the value of the bond 
would have been halved. It follows that I think SBFC should pay the estate half of each 
ongoing advice fee they received on the bond from the date of Mr Cs death. They should 
add 8% simple interest per year from the date they received each fee up to the date of 
settlement. 
Mr A says the estates incurred additional costs due to the confusion over whether or not 
the loan trust existed. The email from the accountant who did the probate work says he 
spent 22.75 hours on everything to do with the GIA and the bond and trust. Given that 
Ive concluded the GIA and bond were suitable its not fair to say SBFC need to pay for all 
these hours  many would have been incurred anyway. SBFC told the accountant the full 
cash-in value of the bond should be used for probate on 29 April 2021. And the relevant 
IHT form was submitted not long after that. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
additional costs were incurred by the estate once the absence of the DLT was 
discovered. So its difficult to quantify the extent to which additional costs were incurred 
by the accountant simply because the trust hadnt been set up correctly. 
Instead, Im inclined to say SBFC should pay the estate a lump sum figure of £500 which 
I think is a reasonable contribution towards the extra costs it incurred as a result of 
SBFCs errors. 
SBFC didnt reply to my provisional decision, but Mr A made a number of comments. I 
addressed these by email on 29 June 2023 and, as they changed my position, I put Mr As 
comments and my response to SBFC the next day. 
SBFC werent happy. In summary, they said in response:
They felt the complaint was motivated by greed. 
They were unhappy with the amount of focus in my provisional decision on the failure 
to set up the trust, and that I hadnt looked at the actions of the bond provider. 
They hadnt been asked to provide IHT mitigation advice. 
In hindsight, the fact that the trust wasnt established has left the estate better off. 
They were concerned about Mr A appointing an adviser to make any calculations as 
they felt the adviser may have a vested interest in maximising the amount of any 
claim.
Mr A had a couple of small comments on my email  he asked that I clarify my position on 
the 8% simple interest. And he said that theyd need to get a lot more data from the bond 
provider to do the calculations Id suggested and said the adviser could use assumptions 
instead. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my position is very close to that set out in my email of 29 June 2023. Ive 
considered both parties comments.
Most of SBFCs comments reiterate what theyd said previously, and dont change my mind. 
In relation to the appointment of an adviser to make calculations, Ive thought about this 
carefully. Mr As view is that it will be more efficient and therefore cheaper to use their 
accountant who is already very familiar with the matter and has done much of the work already. Im not persuaded by SBFCs view that Mr As accountant will maximise the claim 
for personal gain  my understanding is that this is a professional accountant who is a 
member of a professional association and it would not be worth the risk to his membership 
or reputation. Any other arrangement would require both parties to agree on the choice of an 
accountant to do these calculations. This would likely be time-consuming and difficult for 
them to reach an agreement. And I agree with Mr A that the costs, once this new accountant 
is identified, would be much higher. For these reasons Ive decided that the accountant 
whos been involved so far should do the calculations.
Mr As comments were about clarifying how the calculations are done  Ive addressed these 
below.
Putting things right
To put things right, SBFC need to put Mr and Mrs Cs estate in the position it would have 
been in if the trust had been effectively established and SBFC had provided proper advice 
when Mr and Mrs C had died. Im satisfied the following is fair and reasonable:
The executors should ask a suitability qualified adviser to calculate the net value to 
the estate of the bond when it was surrendered (taking into account any taxes paid or 
due) and what the net value to the estate would have been at the same date (taking 
into account any taxes paid or due) if the following steps had been taken:
oA joint DLT had been established and £48,500 invested in the MetLife bond 
on the same date as the actual investment was made.
oOngoing adviser fees were paid at 0.5% each month on the value of the bond 
until Mr Cs death in October 2017.
oSufficient of the bond would have been sold on 31 October 2017 to repay 
Mr Cs £24,250 loan to his estate, with the chargeable gain taxed as Mr Cs 
income in that year.
oThe value of the surrendered segments would have been retained as cash by 
Mrs C and would have grown by the average rate of return on cash3 from 
31 October 2017 to the date of her death  the underlying amount plus the 
growth would have been included in her estate and may have been subject to 
IHT.
oThe remaining segments would have continued to have the potential for 
growth, and adviser fees would have been paid on the remaining value at 
0.5% per year each month until Mrs Cs death in December 2020.
oThe remainder of the bond would then have been surrendered and Mrs Cs 
portion of the loan (£24,250) paid to her estate and subject to IHT.
oThe growth on the bond would have fallen outside of the estate.
When making these calculations, the adviser should obtain the valuation history of 
the bond from the bond provider. Where there are gaps in the data, the adviser 
should make reasonable assumptions and explain these assumptions in his report.
The adviser should deduct the actual net value to the estate from what the net value 
to the estate should have been and SBFC should pay this amount to the estate, 
together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date the estate paid its IHT 
liability to the date of settlement. And SBFC should pay the reasonable costs of the 
3 As before, this should be assumed to be equivalent to the rates published by the Bank of 
England (BoE) showing the average return from one-year fixed rate bonds.adviser in performing these calculations.
SBFC should add on £1,000 for the accountants extra costs arising from SBFCs 
errors. No interest is to be added to this amount as it is an estimate.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. Stephen Baker Financial Consultants 
Ltd should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of 
Mrs C and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman