DRN-2309681
Complaint
Mr R and Miss H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr R and Miss H took out a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in December 1994. 
Mr R and Miss H paid a monthly amount of £48.30 for the policy. The benefit was split, so 
they were each covered for £350 per month if they were too ill to work or made involuntarily 
redundant. This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R and Miss H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R and Miss Hs case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr R and Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr R and Miss H that the policy was optional. And it had to get 
their consent before it added PPI to their account. Halifax says it would have done this. But 
Mr R and Miss H say they were misled into believing it was a condition of the mortgage and 
that they cancelled the policy in 1997 when they realised they didnt need it. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr R and Miss H have said isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold their complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Weve seen a number of examples of the paperwork Halifax used around the time Mr R and 
Miss Hs policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Halifax gave its customers an option to 
take out PPI and the mortgage agreement often highlighted that it wasnt necessary to take 
any insurance from Halifax. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr R and Miss H were 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Mr R and Miss H say they were given advice and Halifax agrees. That means as well as 
giving Mr R and Miss H enough information about the policy, Halifax also had to check it was 
suitable for them. And based on what Ive seen, I think it was.
Mr R and Miss H were eligible for the policy and they dont seem to have been affected by 
any of the terms which might have made it harder for them to claim, such as having unusual 
employment circumstances. 
Mr R and Miss H say they were both entitled to sick pay from their employers, but they were 
unable to confirm how much. They also told us Mr R would have received redundancy pay 
and had death in service cover from his employer. And that Miss H had funded healthcare 
insurance. In addition, they say they had some savings they could have used.
Having thought about what theyve told us of their circumstances at the time of sale, I dont 
think this means that the policy wasnt right for them. The policy would have paid out in 
addition to their employee benefits and potentially for longer. And they could have made 
repeat claims subject to a requalification period. 
The healthcare insurance Miss H told us about provides a different type of protection to PPI. 
And the policy would have enabled Mr R and Miss H to use their savings for any other 
financial commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult time. So, I think the 
policy could have been useful to Mr R and Miss H if they fell on hard times.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr R and Miss H at the 
time it was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr R and 
Miss H.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr R and Miss H all of the other information they needed  I 
dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But for the same reasons as Ive 
explained above, I dont think this would have put them off taking the policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr R and Miss Hs 
home. And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. 
So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr R and Miss H and I dont think they lost 
out because of anything Halifax did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr R and Miss H paid for it and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr R and Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman