DRN-2967422
The complaint
Miss S complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) registered a default on her credit 
file.
What happened
Miss S had a personal loan from Sainsburys. The original amount was £6000, and it started 
in July 2019. Payments were £112.15 a month. Miss S missed the September 2020 
payment. On 17 December 2020, Sainsburys issued a Notice of Default. A default was 
registered in January 2021.
Miss S complained. She was in financial difficulty. She had only missed one payment and 
the payments for October 2020 and November 2020 were paid. So, the default wasnt fair. 
Miss S originally complained also that Sainsburys wouldnt agree to a payment plan for her 
 including reduced payments. But  Sainsburys agreed to a payment plan of £50 a month 
in January 2021, so Miss S agreed with us to drop this aspect of her complaint.
Sainsburys said Miss S missed one payment in September 2020. A default can be 
registered after one missed payment. Theyd tried to get in touch with her following the 
missed payment, but without success. Theyd written to Miss S on 4 December 2020 asking 
her to get in contact, but she hadnt. And so  on 17 December 2020, a Notice of Default 
was sent to her. The default was therefore correctly applied. 
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Sainsburys acted correctly. The 
ICO guidance said that a default could be registered after a customer was three months 
behind with their payments  and Miss S was three months behind. She could also see that 
Sainsburys had tried to contact Miss S many times by letter and phone to discuss her 
situation. There wasnt any evidence to show that Miss S had contacted Sainsburys before 
January 2021.
Miss S disagreed. She added that she hadnt received any letters or calls  as she was 
abroad at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then 
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put 
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. So  I must decide 
whether Sainsburys acted in line with this.
Miss S missed the September 2020 payment. The Notice of Default was dated 17 December 
2020 - this said To remedy the breach and put things right, you must pay the total arrears of 
£138.02 before 13 January 2021 if you do not take the action required by this notice 
before the date shown then the further action set out below may be taken against you.. I 
cannot see that Miss S contacted Sainsburys at the time of the letter. And so - they went 
ahead and registered the default in January 2021. Sainsburys letter dated 15 January 2021 
advised Miss S of that. So  they were technically correct  as Miss S was, by December 
2020, three months in arrears  as the September 2020 payment still hadnt been made. 
This was even though the payments for October 2020 and November 2020 were made on 
time.
But in cases like this, we also look at what happened in the round  so did Miss S try to put 
things right, or contact Sainsburys to discuss things, and did Sainsburys try to contact her to 
find out what was going on. So, Ive also looked at these aspects.
I can see that Sainsburys wrote to Miss S a number of times. They sent letters on 6 October 
2020, 26 October 2020, 4 November 2020, 14 November 2020 and then on 4 December 
2020. The letter dated 4 December 2020 also warned that a default would be registered if 
Miss S didnt take any action  it said If you don't follow the instructions in the Notice of 
Default, a default will be registered on your credit file. This will show for six years and will 
affect any credit you apply for.
I can also see that Sainsburys tried to call Miss S - seventeen times between October 2020 
and November 2020  without success.
Miss S has said to us that she was abroad at the time and didnt get the letters  and she 
wasnt taking calls. I accept what shes told us  but I cant hold Sainsburys as responsible 
for that. And given the number of letters and calls  over a long period of three months - on 
balance she must have been aware of her situation. But she didnt get in touch with 
Sainsburys until January 2021.  
So  I think that Sainsburys did all they could to contact Miss S and to try to discuss her 
situation. If Miss S had responded and given Sainsburys an understanding of her position, 
things may have been different. Quite possibly, Sainsburys might then have agreed to 
accept lower payments, or to accept the missed payment. But unfortunately, Miss S didnt 
get in touch.
And so  and I accept that this will be disappointing for Miss S  my decision is that 
Sainsburys acted correctly, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman