DRN-2089903
The complaint
Miss C complains about the settlement of a hire purchase agreement she took out with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).  
What happened
Miss C took a car on hire purchase from VWFS. The agreement recorded that the car cost 
£18,830 and that Miss C took £15,114.76 on credit. 
Before she agreed to take the car, Miss C says that she and the dealer noticed a strong 
smell coming from the back of the car. They thought there had been a spillage of some kind, 
and the dealership agreed to try to resolve the problem. Despite several efforts (both before 
and after Miss C took delivery) the smell remained. 
The dealership therefore agreed to buy the car back from Miss C It paid £19,160  which it 
said was enough to cover the outstanding finance, the payments Miss C had made when 
she initially took the car (deposit, part exchange allowance and the purchase of other 
products).
Miss C disputes the settlement figures on which the dealership based the price it was 
prepared to pay. The outstanding credit was £15,010.10, only £104.66 less than she had 
borrowed. In the meantime, however, she had made four monthly payments of £239.62. 
Miss C thought the balance due should have reduced by nearly £960, not by only just over 
£100.
VWFS said however that the settlement figure it had provided was correct. It thought it had 
treated Miss C fairly. Miss C referred the case to this service and one of our investigators 
considered what had happened. She explained that, whilst this service is not in a position to 
check matters such as settlement figures, there was no reason to think they had been 
calculated incorrectly in this case.
Miss C did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS was under a contractual duty to provide Miss C with a car that was of satisfactory 
quality. It is arguable that it did not do so, because of the smell which could not be removed 
from the car. However, even if that is the case, Miss C, the dealership and VWFS agreed 
that, to resolve the issue, the dealership would buy back the car. It and VWFS say the 
agreed price was enough to cover the outstanding finance and up-front payments that Miss 
C had made when she entered into the finance agreement. Miss C says it should have left 
more for her, because the settlement figure provided by VWFS was too high. She has based 
that on a simple deduction of the monthly payments she made from the total amount of 
credit she took from VWFS. 
As the investigator explained, this service cannot carry out a general audit of Miss Cs 
account with VWFS. By that I mean that we are not in a position to work out what the correct 
settlement figure should have been. I can however consider whether Miss C has identified 
an error or whether there is any obvious error in VWFSs calculations. 
As I have indicated, Miss C has based her own figures on a deduction of her payments from 
the total credit she took. That does not however take into account the interest on that credit, 
which was added when she took the loan out, as is usual. The total amount payable under 
the hire purchase agreement was nearly £23,000. Of that, Miss C had paid a deposit of just 
over £3,700 and monthly payments of nearly £960. Had the agreement run its course and 
Miss C had chosen to make a final balloon payment to buy the car, she would have paid 
approximately a further £18,000 in total. 
The settlement figure for the finance agreement was however around £3,000 less than that. 
That is because consumer credit legislation recognises that it would be unfair if an early 
settlement figure were simply the amount a consumer would have paid over the course of an 
agreement less the amount actually paid. That is particularly true where credit is repaid early 
in the life of an agreement, as happened here. Legislation therefore allows for a rebate of 
interest to the consumer. I have no reason to believe that it was not applied correctly in this 
case and am satisfied that VWFS correctly calculated the settlement figure.            
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything more to resolve Miss Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman