DRN-4094377
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) handled his request to transfer his 
pension to a new provider. Mr L says there were delays in getting information from ReAssure 
and the transfer value actually paid was less than had been quoted.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2023. Ive repeated here what I said about what 
had happened and my provisional findings.
Mr L had a pension policy with ReAssure. Mr Ls normal retirement date (NRD) as in March
2021. ReAssure had sent information to Mr L about his options for the policy. Mr L, who had
an independent financial adviser (IFA), wanted to transfer the value of the policy to a new
provider. ReAssure has produced a time line showing what happened. It seems Mr Ls IFA
initially contacted ReAssure about a transfer in October 2020. ReAssure has produced a
timeline of how things progressed.
There was an issue with a statement issued on 30 December 2020 to Mr Ls IFA. The
covering letter said the transfer value as at 29 December 2020 was £162,871.50. But the
enclosed policy information sheet said the current transfer value was £176,439.40.
ReAssure has produced a call log. It shows that Mr Ls IFA raised a number of queries
during January and February 2021. We dont have recordings for all the calls, but we do
have a recording of a call on 21 January 2021 during which Mr Ls IFA queried why the
statement sent on 30 December 2020 had shown two different transfer values. Ive referred
to the call further below. Theres also a letter dated 7 February 2021 from ReAssure to Mr
Ls IFA. It referred to a recent query regarding the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). It said:
We confirm the value of the With Profit element of your policy as at 5 February 2021 is
£163,825.00, all coverages include GAR.
The Non Profit part of your policy relates to Term Assurance and as such none of this has an
applicable GAR.
Please note that this value is not guaranteed and as such can go down as well as up.
Mr L agreed with his IFA to transfer but not before his NRD in March 2021. The transfer
paperwork was submitted to the new provider in March 2021 with instructions not to forward
to ReAssure until Mr Ls NRD. ReAssure wrote to Mr L on 27 April 2021 confirming that it
had paid the transfer value of £165,897.80 by direct credit to the receiving scheme.
Mr L had by then complained to ReAssure about the delay since his NRD. He said ReAssure
had been slow in transferring the funds which had cost him in the region of £11,000 plus loss
of investment growth on that amount.
Mr Ls IFA also complained to ReAssure on Mr Ls behalf on 18 May 2021. The IFA said
thered been difficulties in getting information from ReAssure from October 2020 until
January 2021. And the information sent by ReAssure on 30 December 2020 gave two
different transfer values. Mr Ls IFA said the transfer had taken too long. It had caused
immense stress. And the delay meant there was a difference of £10,541.20 between the
amounts actually transferred and quoted.
ReAssure sent a final response to Mr L on 25 May 2021. ReAssure said it had made a
mistake and was sending £200 to say sorry. ReAssure accepted thered been delays. It said
it was investigating if Mr L had suffered financially because of the delay and had written to
the new provider for additional information.
ReAssure sent its final response to Mr Ls IFA on 2 September 2021. ReAssure referred to
what it had said in its final response letter to Mr L  that it was currently investigating
whether Mr L had suffered financially because of ReAssures delay and had written to the
new provider for information. Once that was received it would get in contact with the
outcome and if any further payments were due. ReAssure said it had a backlog of cases and
it couldnt say when the loss assessment calculations would be completed. The difference in
the two transfer values was being investigated and an explanation/outcome would be sent.
Mr L had received £200 by way of apology for the delays and service.
The complaint was referred to this service. ReAssure accepted thered been a delay in
completing the loss assessment and offered a further £300 for the inconvenience that had
caused. Mr L didnt accept that offer.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He referred to the statement dated 30
December 2020 which gave two transfer values. The reason for two differing values wasnt
clear. But there was a note saying: Please note that all values quoted are not guaranteed as
the funds are revalued on a regular basis.
The investigator had also listened to a recording of Mr Ls IFAs call to ReAssure querying
the transfer values provided. During the call ReAssures agent had explained the difference
was due to a penalty and no bonuses being applied if the transfer was before Mr Ls NRD.
Mr Ls IFA asked if the higher figure would apply at Mr Ls NRD and the lower figure if he
transferred earlier. ReAssures agent agreed and confirmed, if the pension was taken before
Mr Ls NRD, a penalty would be applied.
The investigator didnt think the call was handled well by either party and had resulted in
confusion. ReAssures agent had been talking about an exit penalty as the reason for the
reduced value but had also agreed with the IFAs suggestion that the higher figure would
apply if the pension was taken at Mr Ls NRD. But, although things werent clear, the
investigator didnt think that was enough to rely on as a guarantee of a value when the
statement had warned that the values quoted would be revalued. But if it hadnt been for the
unclear statement and the call it had prompted, Mr L wouldnt have been led to expect that
waiting until his NRD would secure the higher value for his pension. But, if hed transferred
before his NRD, hed have incurred a penalty. So, in any event and even if the position had
been clear, Mr L would still have waited until after his NRD to submit the transfer request so
as to avoid the penalty.
The investigator noted that ReAssure had agreed thered been a delay in paying the transfer
value. And that a loss assessment would be undertaken but not completed. The investigator
set out the basis on which he thought the loss assessment should be undertaken. He noted
that Mr L and his IFA had said delays were experienced from October 2020. And ReAssure
had explained that a request for transfer forms was first received on 15 October 2020. So
that appeared to be a reasonable starting point. ReAssure has also provided a timeframe for
completing the transfer, if it hadnt been for the delay  ReAssure suggested the transfer
wouldve been requested sooner on 23 December 2020 and completed on 11 January 2021.
But the investigator said Mr L wouldve waited until his NRD and so the transfer would stillhave been processed as of that date and so the £165,897.60 value paid was correct. But
any loss caused by the delay in transferring the funds to Mr Ls new provider (which wasnt
until 22 June 2021) would still need to be considered.
The investigator noted the transfer was requested via the Origo Options system  an
electronic platform which allows the transfer of pensions and investments and can reduce
transfer times to a matter of a few days or sooner. He thought it reasonable to say the funds
couldve been sent to Mr Ls new provider, say, three working days later so on 22 March
2021. He set out how ReAssure should determine if Mr L had suffered any loss and if so,
how it should be paid.
ReAssure didnt agree. ReAssure maintained the transfer wouldve been processed on 11
January 2021. It said it wouldnt have retained the forms for two months until Mr L had
reached NRD to complete the transfer. It would process upon receipt of the last requirement.
Its loss assessment had been based on that date and showed Mr L hadnt suffered a loss.
ReAssure sent a payment of £165,897.60 which was invested on 19 May 2021. Had the
transfer been processed on 8 February 2021 (20 days from 11 January 2021 to the
hypothetical date when the funds would be invested) Mr L wouldve received £162,063.40.
So, hed made a gain of £3,003.02 due to the delays. And a further £300 had been offered
for the time taken to complete the loss assessment.
The investigator explained that didnt take into account Mr Ls IFAs actions in delaying in
submitting a transfer request to avoid a reduction in the transfer value. That was in part
because Mr L and his IFA thought a guaranteed figure would be paid on the policy's maturity
date but also because theyd been told thered be a penalty if the transfer was earlier. Mr Ls
and his IFAs actions showed they were attempting to avoid any reduction to his transfer
value and so needs to be considered in what wouldve happened. Theyd still have waited
until March 2021 to request the transfer and so avoid any penalty.
In response ReAssure said that if Mr L and his IFA had delayed in sending in paperwork to
avoid a penalty on transfer that would be their responsibility and not ReAssures. ReAssure
maintained the transfer wouldve taken place on 11 January 2021.
In reply the investigator reiterated that, in his view, Mr L and his IFA wouldve waited to
submit the Origo request until Mr Ls NRD because of what ReAssure had said about the
difference in transfer values. Although Mr L and his IFA thought theyd be securing a
guaranteed value, they were still acting to avoid the penalty that would apply if the transfer
had completed sooner. The investigator asked ReAssure to confirm the position and to
explain why two different transfer values had been provided on 30 December 2020.
ReAssure reviewed the case again and completed a further loss assessment. ReAssure said
although the value as at NRD was used, ReAssure didnt release the funds to the new
provider within its service standards. Using the NRD and allowing ReAssures ten working
days service standard, the payment wouldve been released on 31 March 2021 and received
on 7 April 2021. It had actually taken the new provider 17 working days to invest so that 
timescale had been used, which meant a revised investment date of 30 April 2021.
ReAssures calculations were attached showing Mr L had made a gain and was in a better
position due to ReAssures delays.
The investigator asked ReAssure to provide further information about the steps required to
complete the transfer and how long each step wouldve taken. The investigator said the
transfer should be processed in a prompt and timely manner so just adding a ten working
day standard without a further explanation didnt seem reasonable. But the investigator
agreed that any time taken to invest once the funds were with the new provider was outside
ReAssures control and so it was reasonable to take that into account in the loss calculation.ReAssure responded to say that each business had its own service standards and in
previous cases the June 2006 Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of good
practice has been quoted. It said requests relating to transfers should be completed within
ten working days. ReAssure also cited a recently issued view where the investigator dealing
with that complaint had said it was reasonable to allow that period.
ReAssure responded to say that each business had its own service standards and in
previous cases the June 2006 Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of good
practice has been quoted. It said requests relating to transfers should be completed within
ten working days. ReAssure also cited a recently issued view where the investigator dealing
with that complaint had said it was reasonable to allow that period.
The investigator replied saying the ABI guidance had been issued some time ago and Mr Ls
transfer was completed using the Origo system which can significantly reduce transfer times.
The investigator referred to the 2016 (I think that should be 2018) consultation paper by the
Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG) as a more current indication of best
practice. It suggested a two business day standard for completing each step of a transfer
which was why the investigator had asked for details of the actions that had to be taken. He
said it might be ten working days was reasonable but without details of what ReAssure
needed to do to complete Mr Ls transfer he couldnt agree it was reasonable for ReAssure
to take ten working days to send the funds via BACS.
Mr L hadnt accepted the investigators view. Mr L said the call recording showed ReAssure
had given false information in that if he transferred after his NRD the fund would be some
£10,000 higher  a final bonus would then apply.
The investigator explained that he didnt think a guaranteed value had been promised, but it
was unclear what the different values were. And, even if a ReAssure had said Mr L would
get a certain value, his policy didnt have a guaranteed value and saying it did wouldnt mean
that would have to be paid  although thered be compensation for inconvenience resulting
from the loss of expectation and any impact if Mr L wouldve acted differently. The
investigator said Mr L wouldve waited until his NRD to transfer to avoid any penalty. 
Mr L queried why the higher figure if he transferred after NRD had been quoted with a much
lower figure then paid. Mr L said the sum paid to the new provider (£165,897.60) was the
£162,871.50 quoted in the statement dated 30 December 2020 plus investment growth until
his NRD. He said he should get the £176,439.40 plus the same investment growth.
The investigator didnt agree. He said the £165,897.60 was a drop in fund value due to
market movements. The values of £163,825.00 (as of 5 February 2021) and £171,151.20
(as of 3 March 2021) showed the fund value fluctuated during December 2020 to March
2021.
Mr L didnt agree. He said his investments had showed a slight decline in value from 1
December 2020 to 31 March 2021 which would make a difference of £405.81 to the value of
£176,439.40. Mr L provided a screen shot in support. He explained that it related to other
pension funds which didnt include the funds from ReAssure who Mr L had said was
dragging their heels over parting with the funds. The investigator said, as the figures related
to a different investment it wasnt reasonable to expect the funds with ReAssure would
perform in the same manner.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision because, as Ive set out above, since the investigator
issued his view, ReAssure has undertaken a further loss assessment. ReAssure initially
undertook a loss calculation based on Mr Ls transfer having been completed on 11 January
2021. It showed Mr L hadnt suffered any financial loss as the transfer value he was actually
paid was higher than the transfer value that wouldve been paid on 11 January 2021.
ReAssures further loss assessment has been done on the basis that Mr L wouldve waited
until his NRD before transferring. ReAssure has undertaken a loss assessment using Mr Ls
NRD as the date Mr L requested a transfer.
ReAssure has also factored in the actual time it took for Mr Ls new provider to invest the
fund. I think thats fair  that delay wasnt down to ReAssure and its not unreasonable to
assume that delay would still have arisen even if the transfer had been completed quicker by
ReAssure. ReAssures new calculation doesnt show a loss for Mr L.
I think Mr Ls position is that ReAssure should honour the £176,439.40 quoted in the
statement sent on 30 December 2020 and which Mr L and his IFA understood would be, in
effect, a guaranteed fund value if Mr L waited until his NRD before transferring.
I agree that the information given on 30 December 2020 was somewhat confusing. And Im
not sure the phone call on 31 January 2021 helped much. Ive listened to that call and like
the investigator I think there was some misunderstanding on both sides. But I dont think
there was anything to indicate that the values given on the statement dated 30 December
2020, and in particular what the fund value would be in Mr L didnt transfer until after his
NRD, were guaranteed. The statement itself warned that all the values quoted werent
guaranteed and were subject to revaluation. And that message was echoed in the letter
dated 7 February 2021.
I think it was made clear during the call that the transfer value as at Mr Ls NRD would be
higher than if he transferred before and when some kind of penalty would be applied. So
based on that Mr L and his IFA agreed to delay the transfer request until Mr Ls NRD. I dont
think Mr L acted to his detriment by doing that  even if he thought that would guarantee the
higher value quoted (and I dont think it would be fair to say that ReAssure actually said that)
 hed still have delayed transferring until hed passed his NRD anyway and to avoid any
penalty. So, hes not acted other than he wouldve done anyway and even if he thought hed
be entitled to the higher value.
I dont agree that Mr L is entitled to the higher value. Even if that was quoted and Mr L
thought hed get that as Ive explained it wasnt guaranteed. And, even if it had been
expressed as a guaranteed figure, that still wouldnt mean Mr L should be paid that amount if
the actual value of his policy was less. Where a mistake is made, and an incorrect policy 
value is quoted that wont usually give rise to an entitlement to the higher value in error
stated to be payable. Mistakes can be made and can usually be corrected. Although, as the
investigator has said, it will usually give rise to compensation being payable for the loss of
expectation and the disappointment suffered. I dont think that must follow here though
when, as Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to say that ReAssure did indicate that
the value quoted was guaranteed.
I cant agree with Mr L that he shouldve been paid a transfer value of £176,439.40 as I dont
think he was entitled to that amount. From what Ive seen he was paid the correct transfer
value  ReAssure paid the value as at Mr Ls NRD. The issue is that there was a delay
which meant that the transfer value wasnt received promptly by the new provider and sothere was a delay in investing it. That delay was compounded by the new providers delay
which, as Ive explained, isnt ReAssures responsibility. What ReAssure is responsible for is
the delay in the transfer value being sent to the new provider. So I need to decide when that
wouldve been, had there been no delay on ReAssures part.
The issue seems to be that ReAssures loss calculation assumes a ten working day window
for the transfer to have been completed. Whereas the investigator suggested a three
working day turnround time should apply. The investigator pointed out that the Origo Options
system was used which aims to cut down transfer times to a matter of a few days or sooner.
Ive borne that in mind along with the 2018 TRIG discussion document. The group was
formed to review current transfer and re-registration processes and comprised ten
participating trade bodies and their nominated member representatives. ReAssure is a
member of one of the trade bodies. That document suggested that each stage of the transfer
process should complete within two working days.
So here it might be reasonable to expect ReAssure to have completed its processing within
those two days. Whereas ReAssure has said that its internal processing target is to
complete transfers within ten days. Although thats more than the two days referred to in the
TRIG guidance, in some cases I might think that ten days isnt an unreasonable timeframe.
I think the investigators position was on the basis that, once ReAssure received the
receiving schemes Origo request, all ReAssure had to do was pay the transfer value. But I
dont think ReAssures requirements were complete. Before actioning the transfer ReAssure
needed confirmation that Mr L had taken independent financial advice. From the call log
ReAssure has provided it seems ReAssure called Mr Ls IFA on 6 April 2021 to check that
Mr L was happy to lose the GAR. ReAssure followed that up by writing to Mr L on 9 April
2021 saying it had received a request to transfer but ReAssure needed some further
information from Mr L. The letter set out that, due to Mr Ls policy having a transfer value
above £30,000 and a GAR which would be lost on transfer, Mr L was required to obtain
independent financial advice before the transfer could go ahead. Mr L was asked to
complete the attached Confirmation of Financial Advice form and return it to ReAssure with
the supporting documentation.
Im not sure when the form was returned to ReAssure. Id assume it was sent back promptly.
And I note that despite asking Mr Ls IFA about whether he was happy to give up the GAR
on 6 April 2021 it wasnt until 9 April which was outside a two working day window. But the
point Id make is that at least one further step was required. On that basis I dont agree that
the transfer shouldve been completed within three working days of Mr Ls NRD. In the
circumstances I think theres some justification for the ten working day turnround suggested
by ReAssure. I take into account that the financial advice confirmation form was sent to Mr L
by post and presumably had to be returned by post to ReAssure. Even if Im wrong and it
couldve been emailed back, I think the fact that the form had to be sent, completed by Mr L
and/or his IFA and returned is enough to say a three working day deadline wouldnt have
been met.
ReAssure has admitted it failed to deal with Mr Ls transfer request promptly. But ReAssures
calculations, which well share with Mr L, show, if a ten day turnround is allowed, he hasnt
suffered any loss. I know Mr L is unlikely to accept that but Ive explained why I dont think
thats an unreasonable period to allow a transfer requested on Mr Ls NRD to be completed.
And Ive also explained why I dont think Mr L is entitled to the higher value quoted on the 30
December 2020 statement.
ReAssure has also paid Mr L £200 as an apology for the delays. And it offered another £300
for the further delays in completing the loss assessment. I know Mr L didnt accept that but I
think £500 in total is fair and reasonable. I dont think ReAssure needs to do any more.ReAssure didnt want to add anything in response to my provisional decision.  
Mr L was disappointed. He said Id found ReAssure at fault on many occasions and Id 
contradicted myself. For example, Id said it had been made clear during the call (on 31 
January 2021) that the transfer value at Mr Ls NRD would be higher than if he transferred 
before and when some kind of a penalty would apply. Id gone on to say that hed acted 
accordingly. Mr L said that should be the end of the matter and my decision should be based 
on that. He added, while Id said all the figures quoted werent guaranteed, ReAssure had at 
no stage explained or provided a fact sheet about the drop in value of the funds between the 
stated dates.  
Mr L has also queried how the drop in value came about. He was invested in a with-profits 
fund which aimed to give some protection against short term stock market fluctuations  
although in any event there were little or no such movements during the period in which the 
value of his fund fell. He suggested ReAssure had miscalculated his fund value. ReAssure 
hadnt provided details of the reversionary and terminal bonuses. We told Mr L that we 
thought those were new issues which hadnt been investigated as part of his current 
complaint and that hed need to raise them with ReAssure first.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ls further comments but I havent changed my view of the complaint. Ive 
found ReAssures service was lacking. But I think the sums paid and offered by ReAssure as 
compensation for the distress (including disappointment) and inconvenience that Mr L was 
caused are fair and reasonable. I dont see that Mr L has suffered any financial loss  
ReAssure has undertaken two loss assessments, neither of which showed a financial loss. 
I know Mr L maintains he has suffered a loss  because the transfer value paid was less 
than the higher value that had been quoted. Mr Ls position about the telephone call on 31 
January 2021 is that, if he delayed transferring until his NRD, hed get the higher value. Ive 
explained why that value wasnt guaranteed. So it doesnt follow that Mr L would ever have 
been paid that value, whether he transferred at NRD or earlier. And I still think hed have 
waited until his NRD before transferring. Particularly as a Market Value Adjustment (MVA) 
may be applied before NRD. ReAssures further loss assessment has been done on the 
basis that Mr L wouldve waited until his NRD before transferring.  
Mr L was understandably disappointed that the transfer value was less than hed been 
expecting. But that was based on his understanding that hed get the higher value quoted if 
he waited until his NRD which, as Ive explained, wasnt guaranteed. I dont think there was 
any onus on ReAssure to explain why the value was less than had previously been quoted. 
More recently Mr L has expressed concerns about if the transfer value paid included the 
correct level of reversionary and terminal bonuses. Ive just considered Mr Ls current 
complaint from the perspective of whether there were delays on ReAssures part and if Mr L 
was entitled to the higher transfer value that had been quoted. I said in my provisional 
decision that, from what Id seen, Mr L was paid the correct transfer value. That was on the 
basis the higher value wasnt guaranteed and so Mr L wasnt entitled to it. But I havent 
looked further into whether the transfer value actually paid was correct in terms of it if 
included the correct bonuses. I think Mr L should ask ReAssure for a breakdown showing 
how the transfer value was made up and raise any queries with ReAssure. If Mr L remains 
dissatisfied with ReAssures explanations then he'll need to make a further complaint. ReAssure has paid £200 and offered a further £300. I think a total of £500 for distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has made an offer to pay a further £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
that offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr L £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman