DRN-3620760
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
gave her two credit cards she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs D was approved for a credit card with Tesco Bank with an initial credit 
limit of £9,000. In September 2020 Mrs D opened another credit card account with Tesco 
Bank with a limit of £5,600. Mrs D therefore had a combined credit limit of £14,600.
Mrs K says that the limits were unaffordable and Tesco Bank shouldnt have agreed to this 
level of credit as she couldnt afford to pay it back. Mrs D says that she has been unable to 
make any reduction in her debt and has only been able to pay the minimum repayment. 
Tesco Bank didnt agree. It said that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before deciding to lend to Mrs D and the credit was affordable.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint was upheld. They thought that the 
information Tesco Bank had from the credit checks demonstrated that Mrs D didnt have 
enough disposable income to sustainably make the repayments on the first card. They 
thought that taking into account Mrs Ds other debts the initial limit was unaffordable and the 
account shouldnt have been opened. They recommended that Tesco Bank refund all 
interest and charges across both accounts.
Tesco Bank didnt agree and replied to say in summary that Mrs D said in her application 
form she wasnt making any repayments towards the mortgage. It also disagreed with the 
investigators view that the amount Mrs D needed to pay towards her other revolving credit 
of 5% was reasonable. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank will be familiar with all of the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at complaints relating to irresponsible or unaffordable lending so I 
wont repeat it in detail in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints 
is set out on our website.
Before approving Mrs Ds application Tesco Bank assessed her financial situation. In the 
application Mrs D declared she was a homeowner with a mortgage, she was working full 
time with a monthly take home pay of £1553.
Tesco Bank also carried out a credit check. The results revealed that Mrs D was generally 
managing her other credit well with no adverse data such as missed repayments or defaults. 
The results showed the mortgage repayment and that Mrs D had a loan with £7171 
outstanding and other credit amounting to £3551. Tesco Bank assessed Mrs Ds regular 
other outgoings using average costs data. Tesco allowed £466 for mortgage repayments, 
£268 for loan repayments, £107 for other credit repayments, £466 for living expenses and 
£227 towards the new card. 
The credit bureau information showed a mortgage repayment of £694 but Tesco Bank says 
that Mrs D declared on her application form she was making no contribution to this 
repayment. Tesco Bank hasnt provided the application form. In any event, I dont think it 
was reasonable for Tesco to have assumed that Mrs D was paying less than the figure 
provided by the credit bureau for the repayments without further information. 
I agree with the investigator that sustainable repayments on Mrs Ds other credit should have 
been assumed at higher than the 3% of £3551 which was the £107 allowed for by Tesco 
Bank. This is because I think it is likely that Mrs D was likely to have had some unused credit 
which should have been factored in when calculating likely repayments. In any event, this 
figure and the repayment for the new card are not included in the calculation of Mrs Ds 
disposable income.
Taking all the figures as they were assessed by Tesco this left Mrs D with only £19 
disposable income after revolving debt repayments and repayments to the new card. I 
consider that Tesco Bank failed to properly take this information into account and the credit 
was not sustainable. 
I also think that Tesco underestimated the amount Mrs D was repaying on her mortgage and 
revolving debt commitments which meant that in reality she would have no disposable 
income and she would be unable to sustainably repay the credit. For these reasons I dont 
think Tesco Bank should have given Mrs D the first credit card.
Mrs Ds position didnt improve and so it follows that l dont think Tesco should have 
approved the second credit card either.   
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mrs D 
should pay back the amounts they have borrowed. Therefore, Tesco Bank should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs D along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Mrs D should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mrs Ds credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs D for the remaining amount. Once Mrs D has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from 
their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.My final decision
For the reasons set out I am upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should put things right in the way I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman