DRN-2126328
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc hasnt refunded her £1,096.43 she lost as the result 
of a safe account scam. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mrs Rs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary: 
On 15 January 2020, Mrs R received a phone call whilst she was out at lunch from 
someone claiming to be from the banks call centre. The caller told Mrs R that her 
bank account was being used by someone in a different part of the country. It turned 
out the caller was a scammer.
The call appeared to come from a genuine bank telephone number. 
Mrs R says the scammer asked her to complete security by confirming parts of her 
memorable information. 
Mrs R says the scammer asked her if she had recently increased her overdraft 
facility. He then asked her to log into her online banking to confirm details. Mrs R 
explains she logged in and saw a letter informing her that her overdraft facility had 
been increased, which married up with what she was being told. 
Mrs R sent £1,100 via faster payment to a new payee. She did so on the premise 
that her bank account had been compromised and was at risk. The money was 
transferred to an account controlled by a fraudster.
Mrs R explains she believed she was speaking to the genuine bank and was acting 
with urgency thinking she was protecting her account. She describes feeling 
panicked. 
Mrs R attempted to make a second payment of £800 two minutes after the first 
payment, but this was blocked from going through. 
Later that afternoon, Mrs R went to her local branch to lift the account block and the 
scam was uncovered.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Bank of Scotland has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider 
whether the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
When Mrs R reported the scam, Bank of Scotland held her responsible for the loss. It said 
she willingly sent funds to a third party bank account without verifying the caller. It pointed 
out the bank would never ask a customer to transfer funds out of their account to protect the 
account from fraud. It added that it provides information on its website to warn customers of 
the various ways to protect their account and also to warn them of current common threats. 
Bank of Scotland contacted the receiving bank to try and recover the money that had been 
sent. It was able to recover £3.57, which was refunded back to Mrs Rs account on 
20 January 2020.  
Mrs R brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Bank of Scotlands 
decision. One of our senior investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be 
upheld.
Our senior investigator noted the bank hadnt specifically said Mrs R had ignored an 
effective warning when making the payment. Bank of Scotland didnt provide any further 
details of its warnings when it provided its file to us. 
Our senior investigator found Mrs R had a reasonable basis for believing she was genuinely 
protecting her money. She pointed out Mrs R thought she was talking to a genuine bank 
employee because the number that came up on her phone matched the number she had 
saved for the bank. She also noted that the security processes and procedures Mrs R 
described were set up to convincingly impersonate the bank. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Mrs R not to take any further steps to validate the identity of the caller. She 
noted that this type of scam is sophisticated and intended to create panic. She could 
appreciate why Mrs R felt the need to follow the instructions she was being given, especially 
as she was completely convinced she was speaking to an organisation that she trusted. 
Overall, our senior investigator felt Bank of Scotland ought to have fully reimbursed Mrs R at 
the time she made her claim. She recommended that it should refund the remaining money 
she lost, together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it 
declined her claim under the Code to the date of settlement. 
The senior investigators opinion was sent to both parties on 29 April 2020 with a deadline 
for responding of 13 May 2020. Mrs R accepted the senior investigators position. The 
deadline for responses has now passed, and over three months later, the bank has still 
failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. I will explain why. 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Bank of Scotland to the 
senior investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of 
the evidence we already have and to take account of Bank of Scotlands failure to reply to 
the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the Code, Mrs R ought to have been fully reimbursed when 
she notified Bank of Scotland of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she 
met her requisite level of care. I believe she did, for substantively the same reasons as the 
senior investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for 
Mrs R to have received a full refund at the time.
Although most of Mrs Rs distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of the fraudsters, I think Bank of Scotland could have done more to protect her from the 
impact of this given its obligations under the CRM and its statutory duty to co-operate with 
our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). 
I therefore consider £100 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. 
Im aware that compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the 
complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of 
discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs R ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the Code. I there direct Bank of Scotland to 
pay Mrs R: 
the money she lost (less the £3.57 recovered) within 28 days of receiving notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Bank of Scotland declined Mrs Rs claim under the Code to 
the date of settlement; and
£100 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman