DRN-1445622
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to let mortgage application Mrs L and Mr W made to Precise 
Mortgages, a trading style of Charter Court Financial Services Limited. For simplicitys sake, 
Ill refer to the business throughout this decision as Precise. Mrs L and Mr W are unhappy 
with the valuation that was carried out on the property they wanted to buy. They say that the 
valuer underestimated the rental income potential, and that by the time this had been 
reviewed on appeal, the property had been sold elsewhere.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He explained that Precise 
hadnt carried out the valuation itself, but had commissioned it from a qualified third party. It 
was entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion and wasnt liable if the surveyor made a 
mistake. He also explained why the valuation fee Mrs L and Mr W had paid wasnt 
refundable.
Mrs L and Mr W indicated their intention to complain to the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) about the valuer, but they also asked for the complaint about Precise to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Precises duty to Mrs L and Mr W was to appoint a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the 
valuation. Provided it did that, and I am satisfied it did in Mrs L and Mr Ws case, it was 
entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion when assessing whether and on what terms to grant 
Mrs L and Mr Ws mortgage application. In these circumstances, a lender does not have any 
liability for any alleged shortcomings on the part of the valuer.
I have not  because I have no power to do so  considered whether the surveyors initial 
opinion, or indeed the revised one, were fair or not. If they havent already done so, Mrs L 
and Mr W may wish to consider obtaining legal advice on whether they have any recourse 
against the surveyor directly. All I can consider here is whether Precise has treated Mrs L 
and Mr W fairly. For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied it has done so.
As far as the fee is concerned, I understand Mrs L and Mr Ws frustration, but the purpose of 
the surveyors report was to allow Precise to assess the suitability of the property as security 
for the mortgage they were applying for. Although, ultimately the outcome was not what they 
were hoping for, the valuation was carried out and Precise passed the fee on to the valuer. 
In the circumstances, and given the fee has been spent, I cant fairly require Precise to 
refund the fee. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and 
dont make any other order or award. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman