DRN-3571234
The complaint
Mr C complains, with the help of a representative, that Westbury Capital Partners Ltd an 
appointed representative (AR) of Quilter Financial Services Ltd trading as Intrinsic Wealth 
Management (Quilter) gave him unsuitable advice to switch part of his pension to a SIPP 
and invest in a Sustainable Forestry fund, a high-risk unregulated investment. 
What happened
According to the FCA register, Westbury was an AR of Quilter between 17 June 2011 and 
12 January 2012. It then went on to be an AR of another network. 
On 21 September 2011, Westbury wrote to Mr Cs ceding scheme, asking for details of the 
scheme, this was on Westbury stationery and included a footer confirming it was an AR of 
Quilter. 
A financial adviser letter of authority dated 27 September 2011, was sent by Westbury to the 
SIPP provider, this said: 
Please accept this letter of authority from my client to appoint me as his financial 
adviser to the enclosed policy being applied for. [my emphasis]
This was signed by Mr C and the footer confirmed that Westbury was an AR of Intrinsic 
Financial Planning Limited (now Quilter). This was signed by Mr C on the same date as the 
SIPP application form, 13 October 2011. Mr W of Westbury also signed the SIPP application 
form as witness to the signature. 
The application form for Sustainable Forestry Fund appears to have been signed on the 
same date. The investment is listed as participation shares in Sustainable Forestry Project 
Ltd. It also confirms the investment period expires on 31 December 2022. 
Mr W of Westbury also certified a number of documents some dated 29 September 2011 
and some on 13 October 2011. 
Within the SIPP application form under investment strategy it was denoted that Mr Cs funds 
were to be invested in an alternative investment and the investment is named as the 
Sustainable Forestry fund. 
An application checklist dated 17 October 2011, listed a number of documents to be 
completed and confirmed that, amongst the other necessary documents, a letter of authority 
from the Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) had been received and listed the IFA as 
Westbury Financial Services.
The next day the SIPP provider wrote to Mr W at Westbury saying: 
Please find enclosed copy of correspondence relating to the above client [Mr C].
The transaction history of Mr Cs SIPP indicates that the investment was made at the end of 
November 2011. 
A risk profiler was completed by Westbury on 30 January 2012, by this point it seems its 
relationship with Quilter had ended. 
On 2 January 2015, the provider of the pension from which Mr C transferred part of his 
pension to the SIPP wrote to him with his annual review, this said:
If you feel you need further guidance, we recommend that you contact your financial 
adviser, Westbury Capital Partners Ltd who will be happy to arrange an evaluation of 
your present arrangements and advise on whatever action may be necessary.
Mr Cs statements from the two years prior say the same.
Background to the complaint 
Sadly, the investment failed. Mr C complained to Quilter, it didnt uphold his complaint, it said 
that Mr W hadnt been acting in his capacity as its AR in respect of any advice hed given. 
And, in any case, this wasnt business for which it had accepted responsibility as neither the 
SIPP provider nor the investment were approved products. 
Unhappy with its response Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Quilter objected to this 
service considering the merits of Mr Cs complaint against it on the basis that Westbury 
wasnt acting as its AR in respect of the activities complained about and, in any case, this 
wasnt business for which it had accepted responsibility. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded it was one we could consider 
and that it should be upheld. Quilter disagreed, briefly, it said: 
The discussions described by Mr C appear to be informal discussions and not 
confirmation of advice given. 
It hasnt seen any evidence that Mr W advised Mr C to invest in unregulated 
products. 
The letter of authority sent by the AR to the SIPP provider, which says that Westbury 
is an AR of Quilter doesnt confirm that any advice provided to Mr C by Mr W in 
respect of his pension/investment was provided in his capacity as an authorised 
individual/AR of Quilter. 
It has no paperwork relating to the pension transfer because the business wasnt 
submitted via Quilter. So, any advice Mr C may have received from Mr W in respect 
of his pension/investment wasnt provided in his capacity as AR of Quilter.  
As part of our investigation we asked Quilter for a list of permitted products, its compliance 
manual and the membership agreement. It hasnt been able to provide these. Whilst Quilter 
hasnt been able to provide these documents in this case, we know that these did apply both 
on the basis of the other cases weve seen against this network and the member offer 
document provided in this case. I think these are relevant considerations in determining what 
business Quilter accepted responsibility for and any restrictions that may have applied. 
I sent my provisional decision to Mr C and Quilter explaining that I thought this was a 
complaint we could consider and that it should be upheld. Mr C confirmed he didnt have any 
further submissions to make. Quilter also confirmed that it didnt have any new submissions 
to make and reiterated that it didnt think Mr W was acting on its behalf in respect of the acts 
complained about. Given what we know from other cases weve seen against this network and the 
documentation previously provided, we know that the documents that regulated the 
relationship between Quilter and its AR were very similar from case to case. So, I thought it 
reasonable to consider previously submitted documentation as likely examples of the 
documents that regulated the relationship in this case. If Quilter disagreed or had evidence 
that different agreements and manuals applied in this instance, I invited it to make 
submissions to this effect in response to my provisional decision. It didnt make any such 
submissions.
Neither party made any new material submissions in response to my provisional decision. 
Given Quilters ongoing assertion that Mr Cs complaint had been brought too late, I wrote to 
it confirming that Id considered this and thought the complaint had been made in time. 
Quilter confirmed it didnt have any evidence but maintained that Mr C would reasonably 
have been aware of the issues with the investment more than three years before the 
complaint was made. 
We asked the parties to the complaint for any further evidence they had. I considered the 
information provided and remained of the view that the complaint had been made in time. 
The investigator shared the information we received with Quilter and explained that: 
The 2013 statement doesnt indicate that there are any problems with the investment 
or that it had dropped in value.
The 2014 letter states that Liberty had been presented with some options in relation 
to the investment and that it would be attending a meeting to get more information 
about these. Theres no indication that something is wrong with the investment within 
the contents of that letter. Mr C has told us that he doesnt recall receiving this letter 
but it was correctly addressed so, on balance, it likely wouldve been received at that 
address. However, the contents of this letter  in and of itself  isnt persuasive 
evidence that Mr C ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for 
complaint on receipt of this letter and we have no evidence of what, if any, 
correspondence followed on from this letter.
Mr C has confirmed that he received the 2015 letter stating that there were 
outstanding fees due for the SIPP and that Liberty wouldnt send annual statements 
until the fees had been paid. Hes told us that he spoke with Mr W about this and was 
reassured that the fees would be taken care of when the investment matured. In any 
case, this complaint was raised with three years of that letter.
We invited Quilter to make any further submissions it had in relation to this, it confirmed that 
it had no further evidence or comments to provide. My findings remain as set out in my 
provisional decision and subsequent correspondence; Ive reiterated these below. 
What Ive decided  and why
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Having done so, Ive concluded the complaint is one we can consider. 
Prior to my provisional decision the parties to this complaint have provided detailed 
submissions to support their position, again, Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. 
Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the 
fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of this decision isnt to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules are 
referred to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 

In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or, if later,
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within the applicable time limits.
It isnt in dispute that the event happened more than six years before the complaint was 
raised. So, Ive focused on whether or not Mr C became  or ought reasonably to have 
become  aware of his cause for complaint more than three years before he raised the 
complaint. As set out above, I considered the information that was sent to Mr C during the 
course of his investment  and, in so far as relevant: 
The 2013 statement doesnt indicate that there are any problems with the investment 
or that it had dropped in value.
The 2014 letter states that Liberty had been presented with some options in relation to the investment and that it would be attending a meeting to get more information 
about these. Theres no indication that something is wrong with the investment within 
the contents of that letter. Mr C has told us that he doesnt recall receiving this letter, 
but it was correctly addressed so, on balance, it likely wouldve been received at that 
address. However, the contents of this letter  in and of itself  isnt persuasive 
evidence that Mr C ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for 
complaint on receipt of this letter and we have no evidence of what, if any, 
correspondence followed on from this letter.
Mr C has confirmed that he received the 2015 letter stating that there were 
outstanding fees due for the SIPP and that Liberty wouldnt send annual statements 
until the fees had been paid. Hes told us that he spoke with Mr W about this and was 
reassured that the fees would be taken care of when the investment matured. In any 
case, this complaint was raised with three years of that letter.
Overall, Ive not seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr C ought reasonably to 
have become aware that he had cause for complaint more than three years before he 
complained.
Other jurisdiction considerations
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) Section 22 (Regulated Activities) 
provides that: 
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind; or
(b) in the case of an activity of a kind which is also specified for the purposes of this 
paragraph, is carried on in relation to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates 
to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities (other than auction regulation bidding); 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firm
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firm has accepted responsibility).
Under section 39(3) of FSMA:The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Exemption of ARs
FSMA says under Article 19, The general prohibition, that:
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is - 
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.
Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant, it says:
(1) If a person (other than an authorised person)- 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which -
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000 (Appointed
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals in investments. 
So, for me to conclude that this is a complaint that we can consider I need to consider three 
questions:
1. What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2. Were the acts about which Mr C complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
3. Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, Quilter?
What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Westbury to switch part 
of his pension provision to a SIPP in order to invest in Sustainable Forestry. He says he was 
introduced to Mr W of Westbury at a social event where he said he was a financial adviser 
and gave him a business card. Mr W then attended a number of meetings at Mr Cs house. During the course of which 
Mr W of Westbury recommended that Mr C switch monies from his existing pension to a 
SIPP in order to invest in Sustainable Forestry. 
He now believes that this advice was unsuitable for him. I think his complaint includes the 
acts of: 
Advising Mr C to switch monies from his existing pension provision to a SIPP, in 
order to invest in Sustainable Forestry; and 
The arrangements made in respect of implementing this advice. 
Were the acts about which Mr C complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities are set out in Part II of FSMA (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
They include:
Advising on investments where the advice relates to buying, selling, subscribing for 
or underwriting a particular investment which is a security or a contractually based 
investment (article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals in investments for another personto buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite a particular investment which is a security or relevant investment (article 
25 RAO).
Mr C has told us that Mr W of Westbury advised him to switch some of his existing pension 
provision to a SIPP in order to invest it in Sustainable Forestry. There is limited 
documentation but between the documentation that is available and the consumers 
testimony, I think there is enough information to reasonably assess what most likely 
happened.
Westbury wrote to Mr Cs ceding scheme asking for details of the scheme just before the 
switch. It was also appointed as adviser in respect of that pension and in respect of the 
SIPP. The letter of authority in relation to the SIPP stated: 
Please accept this letter of authority from my client to appoint me as his financial 
adviser to the enclosed policy being applied for. [my emphasis]
Based on this, I think Westbury was adviser in relation to the SIPP from the outset. Also, 
both the letter of authority and the SIPP application form were signed by Mr C on the same 
date, I think these were most likely submitted together. The SIPP application stated that the 
intended investment was an alternative investment and named the investment as 
Sustainable Forestry. 
Taking all of this into account, I think Mr W of Westbury was involved throughout the 
transaction. Theres no evidence that Mr C was an experienced investor or that he came 
across the Sustainable Forestry investment himself or through the involvement of another 
party. Based on the available documentation, Mr Cs circumstances and what hes told us I 
think that it is more likely than not that Westbury did advise Mr C to switch some of his 
pension provision to a SIPP in order to invest in Sustainable Forestry and made 
arrangements for Mr C to do this. Overall, I am satisfied that Mr Cs complaint relates to activities done in the carrying on of the 
regulated activities  advising on investments and arranging deals in investments  as 
defined in the RAO. 
The next question is whether that business was business for which Quilter had accepted 
responsibility. 
Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, Quilter?
As set out above, under section 39(3) of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
And
DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
It follows that the question then is: were the advising and arranging activities conducted by 
Westbury for Mr C, activities for which Quilter is responsible?  
When Im considering responsibility by way of Section 39 FSMA, the test is: were those 
activities done in the carrying on of business for which Quilter has accepted responsibility?  
There are two parts to this question and the answer needs to be yes to both in order for me
to conclude Quilter was responsible for Mr Ws actions:
1. Was Mr W acting on behalf of Quilter when the acts complained about happened?
2. And if Mr W was acting on behalf of Quilter, was it business for which Quilter had 
accepted responsibility?
In its submissions to this service Quilter has contended that, if Mr W did undertake the acts 
complained he didnt do so as its AR. As I understand it Quilter doesnt have any evidence of 
the transaction and says the business wasnt reported to it. I dont think this necessarily 
means that Mr W wasnt acting as its AR in respect of the act complained about. 
The evidence we do have, and the sequence of events point to Mr W acting on behalf of 
Quilter throughout this transaction. Westbury was appointed adviser on both Mr Cs existing 
pensions arrangement and the established SIPP. 
All of the correspondence was on Westbury stationary, confirming it was an AR of Quilter. 
The letter of authority appointing Westbury in respect of the SIPP, SIPP application form and 
investment application form were signed on the same date. On balance, I think these were 
signed and submitted together. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr W was acting in any 
other capacity when undertaking the acts that are the subject of this complaint. Having 
concluded that these were the acts of Quilters AR, Ive gone on to consider if this was 
business for which Quilter accepted responsibility. Quilters arguments in relation to authority focused on the SIPP and subsequent investment 
not being approved products. Ill address this point later in this decision. First, Ive 
considered what business Quilter accepted responsibility for more broadly. 
Quilter has been able to provide us with the member offer in this case. This set out in so far 
as relevant: 
1. The Membership Agreement incorporates the Individual Rates Document, the 
Compliance Manual (available through Intrinsics Website), the Sales Process 
and the Deed of Guarantee all as expressly modified or augmented by the Offer. 
The Membership Agreement incorporating these documents therefore sets out 
the terms of the agreement between you and Intrinsic.
And
2.3 Permitted Activities
Your Registered Individuals are appointed to undertake such Selling Activities as 
Intrinsic has trained them to undertake. In addition, there are additional licensing and 
business approval requirements that apply to certain Permitted Activities and these 
will also be explained to the adviser upon appointment. 
The additional requirements are:

Products requiring the adviser to undergo additional Intrinsic training: 
Pension Transfers: Must attend the Pensions Transfer Workshop and pass the 
internal test. 
And
Products requiring pre-submission approval by Compliance: 
All Pension Transfers

Specialist Investments
Quilter hasnt been able to provide us with copies of all of the other documents mentioned in 
the member offer letter that regulated its relationship with Westbury. But, as Ive explained 
above and in my provisional decision, Ive looked at documents from similar arrangements 
Quilter had with other ARs and proceeded on the basis that the documents were the same 
as with Westbury.
The membership (section 39) agreement Ive reviewed said:
4.1 The member is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purpose only of 
carrying on the Business.
Business was defined as: 
the business of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set 
out in this Agreement.The Compliance Manual was more helpful on this point. It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic have approval are as follows:
a) arranging (bringing about) deals in;
b) making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c) advising on; or
d) agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c) in relation to 
designated investments, mortgages, pure protection and mortgage-
related general insurance
As appointed representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry out those 
activities detailed above (dependent on any restrictions inherent in your contract), 
these are referred to as the Scope of Permissions
Accordingly, the prescribed business Quilter permitted it appointed representative to carry on 
was arranging deals, advising on investments and mortgages and certain insurance and 
agreeing to arrange deals and advise on investments mortgages and insurance. Quilter 
accepted responsibility for that business with the section 39 agreement as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
To accept regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from 
time to time expressly authorised under the terms of this Agreement as required by 
Section 39 of the Act.
So, in this case Quilter did in principle authorise its AR to advise on investments, arrange 
deals in investments and agree to do both. 
The membership agreement (section 39 agreement) includes:
5. MEMBERS OBLIGATIONS
The Member shall have the following obligations:
5.1 Conduct of Business
5.1.1 The Member shall comply with the provisions of schedule 2.
Schedule Two of the section 39 agreement includes:
2 Personnel
2.1 The Member may appoint Personnel to carry on the Business, provided that any 
such Personnel:
2.1.1 are approved by Intrinsic; and
2.1.2 where Intrinsic considers it necessary, become an Appointed Representative of 
Intrinsic;
2.1.3 where necessary, are approved by the FSA;
2.1.4 have completed successfully, any training course provided by Intrinsic from 
time to time
Quilter says the products recommended in this complaint hadnt been approved and that its 
therefore not responsible for this advice. It hasnt been able to provide any evidence in 
relation to this argument. But I accept that such a restriction could apply, so Ive considered 
the implications of this in this case. In effect it says it authorises its ARs to give investment advice  but only if certain conditions 
are met, such as the investment being on its approved list.  
what do the courts say about these types of restrictions?
In Ovcharenko v Investuk, HHJ Waksman said the following (where D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting. The judge 
said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against, here, D2 for the activities 
of D1 in the way I have described. 
Then the judge said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal 
with authorised representatives but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry 
out regulated activities, so that they have a long stop liability target which is the party 
which granted permission to the authorised representative in the first place. In my 
judgment, section 39(3) is a clear and separate statutory route to liability. It does no 
more and no less than enable the claimant, without law, to render the second 
defendant liable where there have been defaults on the part of the authorised 
representative in the carrying out of the business and which responsibility had been 
accepted
34 [counsel for D2] has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised 
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply a promise 
by D1 to D2 that it will not do anything outside clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing 
about the scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants under section 39(3). The same 
point can be made in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not 
carry out any activity in breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as 
per the quote from clause 4.7 in paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following 
description of the clause] which limits the activities that can be undertaken or of any 
other applicable law or regulation". Again, that is a promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those promises is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to 
the claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen 
because D1 has exceeded what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any 
way, then that gives a right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 
against D1. If [Counsel for D2] was correct, it would follow that any time there was 
any default on the part of an authorised representative, for example, by being in 
breach of COBS, that very default will automatically take the authorised 
representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative agreement 
but will take D2 outside the scope of section 39(3) , in which case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered nugatory; that is an impossible 
construction and I reject it. The judge in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] agreed with the above. 
In that case the network principal had argued that it wasnt responsible for advice to invest in 
an investment in which it didnt authorise the appointed representative to deal. The judge 
said: 
the decisions in Martin v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel 
for TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual 
authority, express or implied, to act as he did on Tenet's behalf, nor was he held out 
by Tenet as having such authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So, its clear that the courts think that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties, that they 
regulate the position inter se.
Does that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way? The answer to that question is no 
because of the words part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases Ive referred to above really considered this point. But it was dealt with in 
Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834. In that case  that was later upheld by the 
Court of Appeal  the judge, Mr Justice Jacobs, said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that 
indicates that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined 
not by reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) 
cannot simply be answered by asking whether a particular transaction was within the 
scope of the AR's actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered the scope of Clause 3.2 of the 
AR agreement in that case, and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice 
was "firmly encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised representative 
agreement": see paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility 
had been accepted encompasses the services set out in Clause 3 of the authorised 
representative agreement". Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other 
provisions of the AR agreement which imposed obligations or restrictions upon the 
AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an obligation not to do anything 
outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions were matters which 
applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect liability under 
s.39.
138. Most recently, in TenetConnect, Ouseley J applied the decisions in 
both Martin and Ovcharenko, in circumstances where it was common ground that 
liability under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter of the contractual law of 
agency": see paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision in TenetConnect was that the 
relevant advice on "unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the 
advice on regulated investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case 
therefore again supports the proposition that in ascertaining the scope of section 39, 
and the question of the business for which the principal has accepted responsibility, it 
is relevant to consider the terms of agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit in the decision that if the advice on the unregulated investments had not been 
sufficiently closely linked to advice which the AR was authorised to give, then there 
would have been no liability under section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an 
inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise on a related 
transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to be fulfilled before a 
product was offered, does not mean that the transaction in question falls outside the 
scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is taken. Equally, the 
approach must not be so broad that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very 
AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has accepted 
responsibility for the business in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense that the scheme, and advice in 
connection with that scheme, were well beyond the scope of the "business" for which 
Sense accepted responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious 
argument that the activities of MFSS and Mr. Greig in relation to the scheme, both in 
terms of operating it and advising upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of 
the ordinary business of a financial adviser to operate a scheme for taking deposits 
from clients. As the Claimants' expert, Mr. Morrey, said: "operating the scheme, so 
having the monies under your control, clearly is not the work of a financial adviser". 
Mr. Ingram's evidence was that he knew that a firm of financial advisers should not 
be involved with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed to handle 
client money and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring to the express prohibitions 
in clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client 
money.
what does all this mean?
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an AR acting within 
their actual authority. It also means that sometimes a principal is responsible when the 
appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority. And sometimes a principal isnt 
responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority. And the 
test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the principal is responsible when the 
act or omission is sufficiently closely connected to the activities for which the actual authority 
was given.  
my view about the restrictions in the appointed representative agreement in this case:
advice restricted to approved products
The Compliance Manual includes the following:
All firms regulated by FSA entered the depolarised regime on 1 June 2005.  As an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic you will be restricted to the distribution channels 
and product ranges chosen by Intrinsic.
Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products from a limited number of companies in 
respect of Designated Investment business, commonly referred to as Multi-tieThe first three sections of the Section 39 agreement deal with:
The commencement date and the identity of the parties.
A short section saying the agreement incorporates various other documents including 
the compliance manual.
An interpretation section.
Section 4 is the appointment section. It says:
4.1 The Member is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purposes of 
carrying on the Business.
4.2 The Member is not permitted to represent other counterparties or to carry on any 
other Regulated Activity or to promote, sell or advise on any financial services or 
plans other that the Plans without the express written consent of Intrinsic, except the 
Member may make introductions to Independent Financial Advisers as permitted by 
Intrinsic from time to time.
Business is defined as:
The business of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic on the terms set 
out in this Agreement.
Plan is defined as:
Any policy, investment agreement, mortgage or other agreement or service specified 
from time to time in this Agreement.
Quilter says neither the SIPP nor the subsequent investment were specified under the 
agreement. And, we do know it limited its ARs to advising on approved products. So, Ive 
considered whether or not this was business for which it accepted responsibility if these 
products werent approved. 
On the face of it, advising on the taking out of the SIPP and the subsequent investment 
wasnt business Westbury was appointed to carry on. However, that advice didnt occur in 
isolation. There was also advice given to Mr C to switch his personal pension. And, I havent 
seen anything that suggests Quilter didnt accept responsibility for that business.
exclusion of UCIS advice
The Compliance Manual says advising on UCIS is a specialist activity and outside the 
appointed representatives scope of permission. And Quilter says the investment involved in 
this complaint was a UCIS. Quilter has also sent us compliance bulletins which indicate that 
UCIS advice could be given but the pre-approval was required.
I dont however need to consider whether or not giving advice on UCIS is sufficiently closely 
linked to the activities for which authority was given or if Mr W not following a prescribed 
process meant that this wasnt business for which Quilter had accepted responsibility. This is 
because the complaint is not exclusively about any UCIS advice. The complaint is about 
advice to switch part of Mr Cs personal pension into a SIPP in order to make the 
investment. This advice  the advice in relation to Mr Cs existing scheme  isnt caught by 
any exclusion in the Section 39 agreement, or related documents, relating to UCIS advice.
Other potential compliance breachesIt appears likely Westbury didnt follow certain processes, complete all the necessary 
paperwork, submit certain advice for approval or report the business properly. 
However, I should make it clear that a failure to follow a requirement that regulates the 
manner in which an authorised activity is conducted doesnt necessarily put that activity 
outside the operation of section 39 (as an activity for which the principal firm didnt accept 
responsibility).  
Failure to follow such processes in this instance doesnt mean that Quilter isnt responsible 
for the advice complained about. As above, in Anderson v SenseNetwork [2018] EWHC 
2834, in the High Court decision that was later upheld by the Court of Appeal, the judge said 
that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example because of breach of an obligation not to 
offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise 
on a related transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to 
be fulfilled before a product was offered, does not mean that the transaction in 
question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which 
responsibility is taken [my emphasis]. Equally, the approach must not be so broad 
that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very AR agreement relied upon in 
support of the case that the principal has accepted responsibility for the business in 
question.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that Westburys failure to follow certain 
procedures doesnt alter the effect of Section 39 in this case and Im satisfied that we can 
consider Mr Cs complaint against Quilter.
my view on whether the complaint is against Quilters AR:
For all the reasons discussed above it is my view that this is a complaint against Quilters AR 
acting in its capacity as Quilters AR. The complaint relates to business Quilter accepted 
responsibility for and Quilter is subject to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for complaints about that business.
Merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Westbury was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include 
the overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties Westbury had to know its client, act in his best 
interests and give suitable advice.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr Cs circumstances and investment experience dont point to 
him being a very high-risk and experienced investor.Im not persuaded that Mr C had the capacity for loss to justify taking such an adventurous 
approach to investing his personal pension provision. I dont think that the switch or 
subsequent investment were suitable for him. Mr Cs pension was intended to provide him 
with an income in retirement and investing in this manner put this future income at 
substantial risk. 
It hasnt been suggested that Mr C was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
go against suitable advice from his adviser. But, for the sake of completeness, Ive 
considered this  and, I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr C was 
likely to disregard suitable advice. I find that Mr C wouldnt have switched part of his pension 
to a SIPP and invested in Sustainable Forestry had suitable advice been given by Westbury. 
Under the circumstances, I find that its fair and reasonable for Quilter to compensate 
Mr C for the financial losses hes suffered as a result of its unsuitable advice. In addition to 
the financial loss established, I think that the loss of a significant amount of his pension 
provision caused Mr C much distress and inconvenience and that Quilter should 
compensate him for this. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below:
Quilter should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £500 for the distress caused by the loss of a significant portion of his
pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Quilter should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Quilter pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Quilter is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Quilter may require that Mr C provides an 
undertaking to pay Quilter any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future.
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Quilter will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr C's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Quilter should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr C's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Quilter taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr C can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Quilter is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
I think Mr C wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Taking everything into account, Ive found this is a complaint we can consider, and I uphold 
the complaint. My final decision is that Quilter Financial Services Ltd trading as Intrinsic Wealth Management should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd trading as Intrinsic Wealth Management should provide details 
of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman