DRN-3960073
The complaint
Miss C complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) failed to carry out appropriate affordability checks before agreeing two loans 
taken out in her name. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some of the key events here.
On 21 February 2022 Novuna approved two loan applications in Miss Cs name  one for 
£7,000 and the other for £10,000. The loan funds were transferred into Miss Cs current 
account the following day. 
Miss C complained to Novuna that these loans were taken out by someone other than her, 
and without her knowledge and consent. Novuna considered Miss Cs complaint but was 
unable to conclude the loans had been taken out fraudulently or without Miss Cs consent, it 
therefore maintained that she was liable for their repayment. 
Unhappy with Novunas decision to hold her liable for the loans, Miss C referred a complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman  which has been considered separately. While that complaint 
was being considered Miss C also asked us to consider whether Novuna had acted 
reasonably when it agreed the loan applications. Miss C argued that, had Novuna carried out 
appropriate affordability checks at the time, it would not have approved the loans and she 
would not be being pursued for loan repayments she cannot afford. 
Novuna investigated Miss Cs complaint. It concluded that while it had carried out automated 
affordability checks at the time it received the loan applications, it agreed in hindsight the 
loans were not affordable for her. To resolve the complaint, it offered to remove all interest 
and charges associated with the loans. It also agreed to remove any adverse information 
that was reported to her credit file. But Miss C would remain liable to repay the loan 
balances. 
Miss C wasnt happy with Novunas offer. She said it wasnt fair for it to hold her liable to 
repay the loan balances as she could never have afforded the loans from the outset. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but concluded Novunas offer to refund the 
interest and charges was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He thought Novunas 
offer put Miss C as close to the position she would have been in had the loans not been 
accepted, which is in line with what wed expect it to do. 
Miss C disagreed and asked for her complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Novuna accepted Miss Cs complaint that the lending was unaffordable, the only thing for 
me to consider is whether its offer to refund the interest and charges, is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive been presented with I think it is. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss C, but for the reasons Ill go on to explain I dont think 
Novuna needs to do anything further.
As our Investigator has previously explained, where we find a business has done something 
wrong, we would expect the business to put the consumer back (as far as reasonably 
practicable) in the position they would have been in had the error not occurred. But we would 
not ask a business to put a consumer in a more favourable position than they would have 
been in but for the event complained about. This is particularly relevant in complaints 
concerning unaffordable lending, where the loan funds have been spent. 
In cases like this, we would tell the lender to refund all interest and charges associated with 
the lending. But the consumer would remain liable for repaying the principal loan amount. 
This is because they had use of that money. 
I understand in this case Miss C does not feel she had use of the money as most of it was 
transferred out of her account to third parties. Ive considered Miss Cs concerns regarding 
these transactions under a separate complaint. But for this case, Ive had to consider the fact 
that the loan funds were paid into an account in Miss Cs name, which she had access to 
and control over. As such, I can only reasonably conclude she had use of that money. 
As such, I consider Novunas offer to refund all interest and charges associated with the 
lending, as well as removing any adverse information from her credit file to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And so, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman