DRN-3570517
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way Bamboo Limited has administered her loan with it.
What happened
Bamboo approved Miss T for a £5,000 loan. In September 2019, Miss T complained that this 
loan should not have been lent to her. Bamboo initially did not uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Miss T complained again about the same issues and in January 2020 Bamboo agreed that 
Miss T only needed to repay the capital amount borrowed. However, during this time;       
Miss Ts account had fallen into arrears. Bamboo sent Miss T a notice of sum of arrears in 
November 2019, and then a default notice in December 2019. In the final response letter 
from January 2020, Bamboo explained that it would reach out to Miss T to agree a suitable 
repayment plan. At this point Miss T had offered £100 repayments (against usual payments 
of approx. £200); and Bamboo had not accepted it. The final response letter made it clear 
that arrears would continue to accrue on the account as Miss T was going to be making 
reduced payments going forward. 
Bamboo says that after this letter an agreement was not reached, and Miss T was unable to 
meet the necessary repayments. This meant that arrears continued to accrue on the 
account, which led to Bamboo defaulting it and selling it to a third party. The default was 
applied to Miss Ts account in February 2020 and the debt was sold later in 2020.
Miss T complains about the events which occurred after the final response letter was sent in 
January 2020. She says Bamboo have not treated her in line with the regulators standards. 
She says Bamboo acted unfairly in relation to the default; and that she made numerous 
attempts to contact Bamboo to agree a suitable repayment plan. She says she was told by 
Bamboo not to worry about communications as she was led to believe the balance had been 
cleared. She says she was waiting for Bamboo to contact her to agree a repayment plan, 
and this never happened.
Our investigator did not recommend Miss Ts complaint be upheld. She felt Bamboo had 
acted reasonably in the handling of the account. Miss T disagreed with this assessment. She 
reiterated her unhappiness with the way Bamboo had administered her account noting it had 
not been responsive to her communications; that its inactions had caused her further 
distress and inconvenience and Bamboo had failed in its obligations to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that Bamboo needs to do anything further in relation to 
this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss T. I can assure her 
Ive carefully considered all of the information she has provided our service including all of 
her comments after our investigator issued their opinion on this complaint.
Miss Ts complaint centres on how Bamboo have administered her account since it agreed 
to waive the interest and charges associated with it. Whilst I understand the strength of    
Miss Ts feeling in relation to this complaint; Im satisfied Bamboo has handled this complaint 
in line with what I would expect to see in similar circumstances.
It is important to note that all parties agree that Miss T was unable to meet the required 
payments on this account. Miss T says Bamboo shouldve offered further forbearance 
measures in relation to her account. From what Ive seen Miss T initially offered to make 
payments of about £100 per month (this was then reduced to around £25 per month). This 
was substantially below the required amount; meaning that even though a reduced payment 
was in place arrears were continuing to accrue.
From what Ive seen Bamboo made the decision to default the account as a result of these 
arrears (and then latterly sell this debt to a third party). Whilst Miss T may disagree with the 
actions of Bamboo; Im satisfied it acted reasonably in relation to this aspect of Miss Ts 
complaint. 
By the time the account was defaulted Miss T had developed sustained arrears on the 
account; and there seemed little reasonable prospect of these arrears being reduced or 
cleared. So Im satisfied that the relationship between Bamboo and Miss T had broken 
down. Miss T says Bamboo shouldve offered more forbearance but by this point Bamboo 
had already agreed to waive all interest and charges in relation to the account; as well as 
attempting to arrange a suitable repayment plan with her. So Im not persuaded that there 
was anything more it could have offered to do to bring the account back on track at this 
stage. 
From what I can see Bamboo made the decision to start the default process after a 
sustained period of arrears and because its relationship with Miss T had broken down. This 
is a decision that it was entitled to make; and Im therefore satisfied it acted fairly in this 
instance by doing so.
Miss T also complains Bamboo did not provide sufficient information to her during and after 
this process. I can see that Bamboo sent Miss T the relevant notice of arrears and default 
letters confirming the steps it was taking in relation to her account in the lead up to the final 
response letter in January 2020. As noted above all parties accept that Miss T was aware 
she was making or was offering to make reduced payments to the account; so Im satisfied 
she was aware there were arrears on her account. Again; Im satisfied Bamboo gave her 
sufficient information in relation to the status of the account prior to the default process 
taking place.
Miss T further complains Bamboo did not engage with her and respond to her 
communications and efforts to make a payment plan. Whilst I accept there were 
communications which Bamboo did not acknowledge or engage with as quickly as it 
couldve; Im not persuaded this would have materially altered the outcome of this account. I 
can see Miss T asked Bamboo to provide some updates; and that Bamboo did not always 
respond to these. 
However; Im satisfied that it did give her sufficient information as to the status of the 
account; including following the default process and also engaging with her around her initial 
complaint. The final response letter which Miss T received in January 2020 explained that 
once a payment plan is in force, which suggests to me that Miss T was aware (or ought to 
have been aware) that a plan had not yet been agreed. I can also see Bamboo contacted 
Miss T in February 2020 asking for an update from her to how she was proposing to settle 
the outstanding balance of the loan, and this was followed up by a further income and 
expenditure form being sent in March 2020. From the records Ive seen, Im not satisfied that any point there was a repayment plan 
actually agreed between the two parties.  I should explain that whilst Miss T is entitled to 
offer to make reduced payments; Bamboo itself is not obliged to accept the amount being 
offered  especially in circumstances where this is unlikely to clear the arrears. And in this 
instance by March 2020, Miss T says she was only able to afford token repayments of 
approximately £25. So Im not persuaded Bamboo has acted unfairly in relation to this 
aspect of Miss Ts complaint.
One of Miss Ts complaint points is that she did not hear from Bamboo between March and 
November 2020. She says she was contacted out of the blue by a third-party which had 
purchased her account. I should explain that Bamboos decision to sell the debt to a third 
party was its to make (provided it has acted reasonably in defaulting the account). It wasnt 
required to tell Miss T it was assigning her debt. And whilst this mayve been beneficial in 
this instance, I cant say Bamboo was unreasonable in not doing so. It was for the debt 
purchaser to get in contact and explain the position.
Whilst there was no communication from Bamboo during March and November 2020; I cant 
say it had acted unreasonably in then deciding to sell the debt. Whilst Miss T had been 
contacting Bamboo prior to this period Im satisfied that she knew no new agreement had 
been put in place. I cant see that she made sustained contact with Bamboo during this 
period either; and as Ive set out above all parties knew arrears had been on the account 
and that Bamboo had sent a default notice previously. 
It also follows that once the debt is sold, as in this case, Bamboo would no longer be 
responsible from communicating with Miss T. This would be down to the third party debt 
collector who now owned the debt. From what Miss T has told us; this is what happened  
as she has received information from this third party. Any communication issues Miss T has 
had with that party would need to be directed to it, not Bamboo for comment.
As I understand the matter, there is still a balance outstanding with the third party for the 
remaining balance of the loan. Miss T will need to continue to work with that third party to 
reduce this balance. Our services usual approach is that once all arrears and debts have 
been cleared then any adverse information in relation to this loan should be removed from 
Miss Ts credit file. I see no reason to deviate from that approach here.
So for the reasons outlined above Im satisfied Bamboo does not need to do anything further 
in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman