DRN-2451127
The complaint
Miss H complains that she didnt receive an ISA bonus after opening a Help to Buy ISA with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
In November 2018 Miss H attended a NatWest branch in order to open a Help to Buy ISA. 
This is a government scheme, set up to help first time home buyers. The scheme allowed 
the account holder to deposit up to £1,200 in the first month of opening the ISA, followed by 
a monthly limit of £200.
Miss H had opened a Help to Buy ISA with another bank years before she opened her 
NatWest account. But she said this account was dormant as no money had ever been 
deposited into it.
Miss H deposited £1200 into her NatWest account on opening it. Thereafter, she credited 
her account with £200 per month until she was ready to purchase her first home.
In January 2020 Miss H decided to close her NatWest account. She provided her 
conveyancing solicitor with all her Help to Buy ISA documentation as she wanted to claim 
her ISA bonus. But her claim was declined because she held more than one Help to Buy ISA 
account.
Miss H was unhappy that she hadnt received the ISA bonus. She was expecting to receive 
a bonus of £1000. And she said NatWest had failed to inform her she could only hold one 
Help to Buy ISA product to be eligible to receive the ISA bonus. She stated that, if shed 
know that opening a second account would cause her to lose her ISA bonus, she wouldnt 
have gone ahead with opening it. So, she complained. 
NatWest investigated Miss Hs concerns. But it didnt uphold her complaint. In its final 
response to Miss Hs complaint, NatWest explained that shed been provided with a copy of 
the account terms and conditions on opening her account, which clearly outlined that she 
wouldnt be eligible for the bonus if she held more than one Help to Buy ISA.
Unhappy with how NatWest had dealt with her account, Miss H referred her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into Miss Hs concerns but didnt recommend upholding her 
complaint. They didnt think Miss H had lost out financially because of NatWests actions. 
And they werent persuaded NatWest had done anything wrong. But Miss H didnt accept 
our investigators view of her complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think NatWest made a mistake, or treated Miss H unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she 
and NatWest have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Miss H will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Miss H and NatWest, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it. Its because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
As the provider of the ISA, NatWest is responsible for running the account while its open. 
But responsibility for receiving, reviewing and processing applications for ISA bonus 
payments belongs to the scheme administrator. 
The rules surrounding Help to Buy ISAs are set by the scheme administrator not by 
NatWest, and NatWest must follow them. And, in accordance with these rules, a customer 
can only hold one Help to Buy ISA product in order to receive a bonus.
Miss H said NatWest failed to inform her that she wouldnt qualify for the ISA bonus as shed 
previously opened a Help to Buy ISA with another bank. But NatWest said it drew her 
attention to the eligibility criteria and terms and conditions applicable to the account. Given 
the difference in accounts Ive thought carefully about what is most likely to have happened.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Miss H opened her NatWest Help to Buy 
ISA in branch. NatWest has explained that its sale process here meant that Miss Hs Help to 
Buy ISA was opened as a digital application. And it said that, as part of the account opening 
process, the staff member assisting Miss H would have read out the scheme rules from the 
ISA declaration to ensure she was aware them. Its also told our service this is usually what 
happens as its part of its account opening process.
NatWest has provided our service with a copy of the ISA declaration and terms and 
conditions of the account, which it says would have been printed off and provided to Miss H 
for her to read and agree to. Its told our service that Miss Hs account couldnt have been 
opened without her agreeing to the declaration and account terms.
The terms and conditions for Miss Hs account clearly explain that in order to be eligible for 
the ISA bonus a customer must not have subscribed to another cash ISA (including a Help 
to Buy: ISA with another provider). I appreciate that these terms are contained within a 
lengthy document. But, because Miss H was agreeing to the terms that apply to a Help to 
Buy ISA, Id expect her to have read the terms before finalising her account application.  
The Help to Buy: ISA Eligible Customer Declaration form that NatWest say Miss H would 
have had to agree to in order to open her account states that in order to be eligible for a Help 
to Buy ISA a customer may only hold one account of this nature at any time.
NatWest isnt able to provide an account from the staff member who assisted Miss H in 
branch because theyre no longer employed by the bank. But its said the staff member in question was very experienced and would, most likely, have provided the account opening 
documentation to Miss H  as is the usual process. 
I appreciate that Miss H disputes what NatWest has said about this. But Im persuaded that 
this is what happened here. Theres nothing to suggest the documents NatWest has 
provided our service werent created at the time Miss H opened her account. And thered be 
no reason for Miss H not to have been provided with the documentation for her records on 
opening her account. 
I also think that, given the ISA declaration is a regulatory requirement., its most likely that 
documentation about this account would have been brought to Miss Hs attention. And I think 
its likely shed have seen and read this document previously on opening her first account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I havent seen enough to persuade me that NatWest didnt 
follow its usual account opening process when it opened her account. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that NatWest provided adequate 
information to Miss H about the eligibility criteria and restrictions relating to the account she 
had asked it to open for her. Both the ISA declaration and account terms and conditions set 
out in clear, intelligible language that an individual can only hold one Help to Buy ISA in 
order to qualify for the ISA bonus. I therefore think Miss H ought reasonably to have been 
aware that she wouldnt be eligible to receive the ISA bonus in circumstances where she 
already had another account open. 
I understand Miss H feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But for the reasons set out above Im satisfied 
NatWest acted fairly and reasonably and Im not going to be asking it to do anything more. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Miss Hs dispute with NatWest 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Miss H any further with this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman