DRN-2598548
The complaint
Mr H complains about the time it took Credit Suisse (UK) Limited to arrange a transfer of a 
portfolio of assets for which he is a trustee. 
What happened
Mr H asked Credit Suisse to transfer a portfolio of investments to another investment 
manager. The transfer took longer than he thought it should, so he complained to Credit 
Suisse who looked into what happened.
Credit Suisse said the delays were in the main caused by a party external to them. Because 
of this they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H was unhappy with this so brought his complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the details of the transfer and they thought Credit Suisse 
acted fairly. Mr H remained unhappy and provided extra information about what happened 
and questioned some of the explanation he had gotten from Credit Suisse about the delays. 
Our investigator considered everything Mr H submitted and said that a lot of the issues he 
raised seemed to be about how Credit Suisse investigated the complaint and these werent 
things we could look into. Mr H remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided a lot of information about this complaint. I want to reassure Mr H that Ive 
read and considered everything hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised and condensed what happened which reflects the informal nature of this 
service. 
A lot of the information provided by Mr H, and a lot of the questions he raises, are to do with 
how Credit Suisse dealt with the complaint. Ive thought about this, and considered 
everything he has said, but a lot of the things raised by Mr H I cant comment on as 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So whilst Mr H is unhappy with the investigation 
Credit Suisse did into the complaint, and feels we should consider these issues, Ive 
concentrated on what happened at the time, rather than how the complaint was investigated.
Its clear to me that things didnt go as smoothly as they shouldve done during the whole 
transfer process. In order to uphold a complaint like this Id need to be persuaded that Credit 
Suisse were responsible for any delay. And, if there was a delay, that any financial loss can 
been fairly evidenced. Having looked closely at what happened during the whole transfer 
process Im not persuaded this is the case. 
The problem started with a letter and an attached transfer request form which the new 
investment manager says they sent to Credit Suisse. Mr H has provided postal evidence 
which he says shows a letter was received by Credit Suisse on Thursday 29 August 2019. 
Credit Suisse say it was never received. The debate about the fate of this letter forms a lot of 
Mr Hs complaint points. 
The new investment manager realised there was a problem with the letter when they 
contacted Credit Suisse about a different matter on Thursday 5 September. This is five 
business days from when Mr H says the letter was received. It was then Credit Suisse told 
them the letter hadnt been received.  After receiving an email copy of the transfer form 
Credit Suisse acted straight away and confirmed the next day that the transfer of assets 
would commence shortly and that the cash element was being paid that day.
Looking at things overall, Im not persuaded the transfer wouldve necessarily been 
processed sooner by Credit Suisse even if they admitted theyd received the letter. I say this 
because Credit Suisse is a large organisation and it would always have taken some time for 
the letter to reach the right person. This is especially the case as the letter, whilst containing 
a reference number, wasnt addressed to a particular department.  
Ive also considered that a previous letter sent to Credit Suisse by Mr H took four (possibly 
five) business days to process. So its quite possible that the form wouldnt have been 
actioned any sooner if it had been received, or if it hadnt been lost, whichever is the case. 
Had the issue with the letter and transfer form been the only problem I mightve made a 
more definitive finding. However there were problems and delays with the transfer that were 
caused by the new investment manager.
The new investment manager used an incorrect email address when trying to send over 
scanned copies of the documents. This error led to an extra days delay in starting the 
transfer process. Had this mistake not been made Credit Suisse wouldve received the 
transfer form a day sooner than they did. Since Credit Suisse actioned the form on the day it 
was received it seems fair to say that the same thing wouldve happened had the correct 
email address been used. This brings the five business day time scale I talked about above 
down to four, which is in line with the previous time taken to action a letter from Mr H.
Credit Suisse sent instructions about the transfer to the new investment manager on 
9 September 2019 (three business days after they received the transfer form). I think this is 
a reasonable time in which to action the request. Credit Suisse didnt receive a complete 
response until 18 September 2019, some eight business days later.
The instructions Credit Suisse received from the new investment manager were incomplete, 
and it took some further time to sort out. The situation wasnt made clear until 3 October 
2019 (some 12 business days after the incomplete instructions were first sent) and the 
action was taken the next day.
Considering the timeline of events Im satisfied that the delays were caused by the new 
investment manager and not Credit Suisse. When Credit Suisse received the correct 
instructions for settlement they acted quickly.
Looking at what happened over all of the transfer process Im not persuaded that Credit 
Suisse were responsible for any delays. Its possible the transfer mightve been actioned one 
day or so sooner, but its just as possible that it wouldnt have been. I think a day or so of 
possible delays is inconsequential when compared with the much lengthier delays caused by 
the new investment manager. Therefore I dont think Credit Suisse are responsible for any 
financial loss that Mr H says the trust has suffered.Further to this, Mr H hasnt substantiated any financial losses due to the delays, and he told 
our investigator that there wasnt any significant loss. From his correspondence its clear the 
main part of Mr Hs complaint relates to how Credit Suisse investigated what happened. I 
know this has caused Mr H to lose faith in them, and I understand why he feels that way, but 
as I explained above, but this isnt something I can comment on. Ive come to a decision 
based on what happened, not how the complaint was investigated.
After carefully considering everything Im not persuaded that Credit Suisse were responsible 
for any financial loss incurred due to delays when transferring the investment portfolio. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman