DRN-4064662
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) chased him for payment, continued 
to apply interest to his loan and defaulted his account during a period of breathing space. 
What happened
Mr A had a loan account with Barclays, which fell into arrears. He says he applied to the 
Debt Respite Scheme (known as breathing space) with the help of a debt adviser. Mr A says 
the breathing space started on 5 July 2022. But he says that, during the breathing space, 
Barclays applied interest to his loan, asked him to clear the arrears in full and defaulted the 
account. He says that Barclays continued to contact him during the breathing space and that 
it called him more than 60 times during this period.
Mr A says that he was contacted by a debt collection agency (which Ill call M) in August. M 
had taken over the account from Barclays. He says he told M about the breathing space and 
they said they would contact Barclays. But he says that Barclays continued to chase him for 
payment.
Mr A says hes now in a position to bring the account up to date. But, first, he wants Barclays 
to remove the default from his credit file and refund the interest which was applied during the 
breathing space. He would also like some compensation for the extreme stress he 
experienced as a result of this situation.
When Mr A complained, Barclays said it had no record of any contact from him or any third 
party to request breathing space or discuss the arrears. So it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr A asked this service to look at the complaint. Our Investigator wrote to the debt adviser 
and asked whether it had contacted Barclays on behalf of Mr A. The debt adviser didnt 
respond. Our Investigator didnt think Barclays was aware of the breathing space and didnt 
think it had acted unfairly in any event. But Mr A didnt agree and asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He provided a copy letter from the debt adviser to Barclays. 
The letter said that the debt adviser had applied for breathing space on Mr As behalf and 
that the loan was included in this, together with some other Barclays accounts.
Mr A does hold some other accounts with Barclays. But, as our Investigator explained, this 
complaint only relates to one of the loan accounts so that is all I am looking at here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I find that Barclays sent a Default Notice to Mr A in June 2022 in respect of the loan. This 
required Mr A to take one of the following steps by 5 July 2022: either pay off the arrears or 
contact Barclays to agree an arrangement to pay the arrears.
Barclays says it didnt receive payment and didnt hear anything from Mr A. So, it defaulted 
the account. Im satisfied that the arrears remained outstanding on 5 July 2022. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr A contacted Barclays about the arrears before that 
date. So I find that it was reasonable for Barclays to default the account. I also think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to pass the account to M at that point. From the information Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that no additional interest was applied to this loan after 5 July 2022.
But Mr A says that Barclays shouldnt have defaulted the account because he was in a 
period of breathing space. Barclays, on the other hand, says it didnt receive any request for 
breathing space or communication about the arrears, either from Mr A or any third party. 
More specifically, it says it didnt receive the letter from the debt adviser which Mr A has 
recently provided. On balance, I find it most likely that Barclays didnt receive the letter. And I 
dont think it received any other notification that breathing space had started. 
When there has been a period of breathing space, the creditor should also receive 
notification when it comes to an end. But Barclays has no record of that either. Barclays says 
that, as well as checking its own records, it checked the official breathing space portal. But it 
says that Mr A wasnt recorded on the portal either. So, I cant safely conclude that breathing 
space was in place in respect of the loan. And, even if breathing space had been applied for, 
I dont find that Barclays knew about it or ought to have known about it at the time. Barclays 
suggested that Mr A speak to the debt adviser who arranged the breathing space to query 
this and I think thats a good idea.
Mr A says that, even if Barclays didnt hear from the debt adviser, it did know about the 
breathing space because he told Barclays about it himself. The information Ive seen shows 
that Mr A contacted Barclays at the end of July 2022 to raise this complaint. He talked about 
the breathing space in that context. But I havent seen anything to indicate that he contacted 
Barclays before that to make it aware of the breathing space. 
A breathing space can only be started by a debt adviser, not by the customer themselves. 
When Barclays responded to the complaint, it told Mr A that it had no record of any contact 
from a third party about breathing space. I think its reasonable to expect that Mr A would 
have followed this up with the debt adviser at the time. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest that he did so.
But, even if Barclays had received the letter from the debt adviser or any subsequent contact 
from them, I dont think it would have stopped the account defaulting. Thats because the 
deadline for action under the Default Notice was 5 July 2022. The letter about the breathing 
space is dated 5 July 2022 and says it was sent by post. So, even if it had reached Barclays, 
its unlikely it would have been received in time to stop the account being defaulted as that 
happened on 7 July 2022. 
The account was passed to M a few days later and I think that was reasonable whether 
Barclays had received the letter or not. Thats because breathing space only stops 
enforcement action. So, I dont think it would have prevented Barclays from taking 
administrative steps in relation to the account such as transferring it to M.
In terms of the amount of contact from Barclays, I havent seen anything to indicate this was 
excessive. The account was passed to M on or around 12 July 2022, so I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to have contacted Mr A about the account at all after that and I havent seen 
evidence that it did. I note that there were some calls from Barclays complaints team to Mr A, and he called Barclays himself at the end of August 2022. But I havent seen any 
evidence of Barclays chasing the debt or making excessive contact during the period in 
question.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A. But I dont think Barclays did anything wrong here. So Im not 
going to ask it to amend his credit file or do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman