DRN-2376556
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has failed to supply him with a copy of a cheque 
he wrote from his bank account.
What happened
Mr M had an account with BOS. In 1998 he wrote a large cheque which he paid to another 
financial institution. He says hes been attempting to get a copy of the cheque from BOS for 
two years to help him establish the whereabouts of the money.
Despite a number of phone calls to BOS, it wasnt able to supply him with a copy of the 
cheque. It explained its policy was to only keep paid cheques for six years. It paid Mr M £100 
as an apology for the time hed had to spend making enquiries about the issue and £21.60 to 
cover the cost of his calls. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint with this service. One of our 
investigators considered the evidence presented by both parties and concluded that it was 
BOSs policy only to retain cheques for six years so it was reasonable it couldnt supply a 
copy of the cheque from 1998.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
BOS has supplied a copy of its retention policy for cheques and other paper items. This 
shows it only retains cheques for a period of six years. I consider this to be in line with 
common banking industry practice.
Mr M may not agree with this approach and I acknowledge it will be a considerable 
inconvenience to him, but Im satisfied that what BOS has told him is correct  and that is, as 
the cheque was written out some twenty two years ago, it cant supply him with a copy as it 
no longer has the cheque.
So while I have sympathy for Mr M in trying to locate the money, put simply, I cant compel 
BOS to do something it cannot do. 
I understand why Mr M has found his search for information and the number of calls hes 
made frustrating. Overall, Im satisfied the £121.60 BOS has already paid him is a fair and 
reasonable way for it to apologise for the poor customer service hes experienced.
Overall, Im not going to be upholding this complaint or asking BOS to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman