DRN-4410217
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard cancelled the payment 
plan set up on his credit card after 12 months and hasnt provided him with the service it 
should have.
What happened
Mr W had two credit card accounts with Barclaycard. He explained he was unemployed for a 
period in 2018 and 2019 which caused him financial difficulties and both his credit card 
accounts defaulted and payment plans were put in place. Mr W said he wasnt told that the 
payment plans were only in place for 12 months and after this new plans needed to be set 
up. He was asked to complete an income and expenditure form before his payment plan 
could be reset but he explained he found this very stressful. Mr W said that Barclaycards 
policies hadnt been applied consistently as he was still making his payment of £48 a month 
on one card but wasnt making payments on his other card. He said late payment markers 
were being added to his credit file even though he was told they wouldnt be and his request 
for the debts to be consolidated and of other ways to pay were refused.
Barclaycard issued a final response letter dated 15 December 2022. It said that Mr W had 
set up a standing order in July 2021 which was due to expire in June 2022 in line with when 
his payment plan was due for review. It apologised if Mr W wasnt made aware of this at the 
time. It noted Mr Ws comment about late payment markers being recorded on his credit file 
but said that as Mr Ws accounts had defaulted there was no further impact on his credit file. 
It noted Mr Ws comment about completing an income and expenditure form causing him 
anxiety and stress but said this information was needed before a formal plan could be put in 
place. It said it wasnt able to comply with Mr Ws request to consolidate his outstanding 
debts. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that Mr Ws complaint was in regard 
to the credit card account on which his payment plan was cancelled. He said that 
Barclaycard provided a copy of a letter dated 27 July 2021 saying that a repayment plan had 
been set up to run for 12 months ending on 30 June 2022. Therefore, he didnt agree that 
Mr W wasnt told the repayment plan was only in place for 12 months. He noted that one 
repayment plan had continued while the other had stopped but said they were separate 
agreements, and each card was at a different stage in the collections process. He noted that 
Mr W found completing an income and expenditure form stressful but said this was needed 
by Barclaycard to ensure any agreed repayment plan was affordable. Regarding Mr Ws 
request to consolidate the accounts he said as these were separate agreements this wasnt 
possible and while Mr W hadnt been given a paying in book, he had been provided with the 
account details to make payments.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said that his two accounts were based on the 
same contract and terms and conditions. He said that while the letter our investigator 
referred to said the repayment plan ended on 30 June 2022 it didnt say anything about his 
payments being cancelled. He said there was nothing in the terms to say that an income and 
expenditure form needed to be completed and that he didnt have the details to make 
manual payments.
Our investigator responded to the points Mr W raised but as Mr W still wasnt satisfied an 
agreed outcome hasnt been reached. Therefore, this complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W is upset that his repayment plan on one of his credit cards stopped 
after 12 months but for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
Barclaycard had done something wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. 
I note Mr Ws comment about the terms of the repayment plans not being in the account 
terms and conditions, but we wouldnt expect this to be included. I say this because the 
account terms and conditions will set out the key features of the account and the contractual 
obligations, but repayment plans are set up in circumstances where a customer isnt able to 
make the contractual payments and so the terms of each will vary depending on the 
customers circumstances. What we would expect is for Barclaycard to provide Mr W with 
clear information about any repayment plan he had set up. 
Barclaycard sent Mr W a letter dated 27 July 2021 setting out the balance on his account, 
the agreed monthly payment amounts and that the plan would run for 12 months ending on 
30 June 2022. Having looked at this information I find it provides Mr W with clear details 
about his plan and its term. Mr W has said while the letter says the plans term is 12 months 
it doesnt say that the payment will be stopped after this. However, the letter requires Mr W 
to set up the payments and says Mr W should get in touch before the plan ends. Based on 
this I find that Mr W was made aware his repayment plan was for 12 months.
Barclaycard sent Mr W a letter dated 5 July 2022, saying his repayment plan was due for 
review. While Mr W may have wanted his repayment plan to continue without review, as the 
previous repayment plan was set up for 12 months it is right a review would take place 
before a new repayment plan was put in place. I note Mr Ws comments about how stressful 
completing an income and expenditure form is and that he is better placed to say how much 
he can afford, and this should be accepted. But Barclaycard is required to undertake 
reasonable checks to ensure that any new repayment plan is affordable, and it will have its 
own policies for doing this. It explained that Mr W could complete the form and post it, or he 
could talk through this on the telephone or submit it online. I find that Barclaycard was acting 
reasonably by requesting this information be completed before any new repayment plan was 
put in place and it provided Mr W with different options of how to do this.
I understand that Mr W wanted his two credit card debts to be consolidated but Barclaycard 
has said this cant happen. I appreciate that Mr W doesnt think this is right, but Barclaycard 
isnt required to undertake a consolidation process for the accounts. Mr W has also 
complained about it being difficult to make manual payments, but I note that Barclaycard 
provided him with the details he needed to make these in its final response letter.
While I understand that Mr W feels he hasnt been treated fairly, in this case I do not find I 
can say that Barclaycard has done anything wrong in regard to his repayment plan review or 
that it has treated Mr W unfairly. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman