DRN-3557682
The complaint
Mrs S complaint is that the lifetime mortgage she has with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited 
was mis-sold to her and her late husband, as they didnt need the money from it. This is 
because they had savings that would have provided for their needs or they could have 
arranged other forms of finance to pay for them.
The existence of the mortgage means that Mrs S wont have enough money to buy a new 
home closer to her family if the property is sold. As such, she has asked that Aviva refund 
some of the interest that has already accrued, apply a lower interest rate going forward and 
allow Mrs S to make payments to cover future interest. 
This complaint is brought by Mrs S attorney.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs S approached Aviva about releasing equity from their home. The fact 
find completed at the time of the first meeting with Avivas adviser detailed that Mr S was 
retired and Mrs S was working on a part-time basis. They owned their home outright. They 
had a total income of £20,400, although this would drop when Mrs S decided to retire. They 
were shown as having a disposable income of £645 and Mrs S employed income amounted 
to £200 per month.
Mr and Mrs S told the adviser that they needed a lump sum to complete some home 
improvements, including replacing their boiler, updating their fireplace and redecoration. 
They also wanted to replace their carpets and some furniture.  In addition, they wanted 
money for a new car and to be able to continue to holiday abroad, as they had for the last 
ten years. Mr and Mrs S had £30,000 in savings and also had an investment that was worth 
£10,000. However, they said they didnt want to use these funds for their needs and said 
they wanted £15,000 each as emergency funds. Mr and Mrs S said they wanted to release 
as much as possible from the house and declined the advisers recommendation that they 
use some of their savings and only take the difference from the mortgage.
The adviser recommended a lifetime mortgage to Mr and Mrs S. He explained his 
recommendation and provided them with an illustration for the mortgage. This was followed 
up with a suitability letter, setting out the discussions that had been had and his 
recommendations. 
The illustration set out the basic details of the mortgage, based on an estimated property 
value of £200,000. The interest rate was detailed as 7.29% per annum and it was explained 
that this would be rolled-up into the mortgage debt. It was confirmed that the interest rate 
was fixed at the time of the mortgage advance. Mr and Mrs S were told that based on the 
property value, they could borrow between £15,000 and £34,000. Figures for how much 
would be owed if they took the higher amount were set out for various points over the 
following 20 years. The latter showing a debt of £138,888. There were also estimates of how 
much would be left to Mr and Mrs S estate at those times, depending on what happened to 
house prices. 
Aviva went on to explain that the mortgage wasnt designed to be repaid until they both died 
or needed long term care. So if they repaid the mortgage in other circumstances an early 
repayment charge (ERC) might be payable. It was explained how the ERC was calculated 
and some examples of how much it could be were given.
The suitability letter confirmed that Mr S was retired and Mrs S had a part-time job. She 
wasnt sure how long she would continue to work and it was confirmed that they werent 
dependent on her income. Some details of their social lives were given, including that they 
enjoyed taking holidays abroad and wanted to continue to do so. It was set out at an early 
stage of the letter that Mr and Mrs S had been recommended to have a friend or family 
member with them, but they had declined to do so. However, they confirmed that they had 
discussed what they planned to do with their family, and they were happy for them to do as 
they wished.
The adviser reiterated his advice for Mr and Mrs S to use £20,000 of their savings for their 
needs and take a smaller release from the mortgage. It was documented that Mr and Mrs S 
had said they didnt want to use their savings and would prefer to have that money on 
deposit to help with unexpected bills, as it gave them peace of mind. The adviser pointed out 
that holding funds on deposit over the longer term might represent poor value, as the interest 
rate on deposit-based accounts was less than the interest rate applied to the mortgage. So 
that would erode what would be left to their beneficiaries. Mr and Mrs S didnt want to move 
home and they also didnt want to commit to monthly payments, so traditional mortgages 
were not an option they wanted to take.
The recommended mortgage was then explained, including when it would normally be paid 
off, that there was a fixed interest rate that would apply all the way through the loan and that 
no payments would be due.
Aviva accepted Mr and Mrs S application, but as their home was valued at £180,000 rather 
than the £200,000 they thought it was worth, the amount they could borrow was reduced. A 
new illustration for the mortgage at the lower amount of £30,600 was sent to Mr and Mrs S. 
This detailed the same information about how the mortgage worked, the risks, a projection of 
the amount that would be owed on the lower mortgage advance and the potential ERCs. 
Mr and Mrs S agreed to the lower amount being released under the mortgage and, after 
meeting with their solicitor to ensure they understood the mortgage and its implications, they 
signed the mortgage offer. The mortgage funds were released shortly thereafter.
The attorney complained in 2021 on behalf of both Mr and Mrs S that the mortgage had 
been mis-sold. This was because Mr and Mrs S had more than the amount of the mortgage 
advance in savings and Mr S pension income was such that they could easily have afforded 
to cover monthly payments on more traditional borrowing. 
Aviva responded to the complaint. It explained the sales process, including the various 
meetings that took place with its adviser and Mr and Mrs S solicitor. It then went on to 
summarise Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time and the discussions that took place. 
Based on this, Aviva said that it didnt agree that the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
Subsequently, Aviva also highlighted that its adviser had recommended that Mr and Mrs S 
have a friend or family member in the meetings, but that they had declined to do so as theyd 
already discussed their plans with their family.
The attorney didnt accept Avivas position and remained of the view that the mortgage was 
not in Mr and Mrs S best interests. She asked that the interest accrued be reduced, a new, 
lower interest rate be applied to the mortgage and Mrs S be allowed to make interest-only 
payments to the mortgage. Aviva didnt agree and the complaint was referred to this service. Sadly, Mr S died earlier this year and the mortgage and complaint are not in just Mrs S 
name.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She concluded that Mr and Mrs S had genuine reasons for borrowing and so didnt 
consider the advice theyd received was unsuitable.
The attorney didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said that she was currently 
studying for a qualification in providing equity release advice, and that her training was 
conflicting with the advice Mr and Mrs S received.
The investigator highlighted that the attorneys training would have been based on the 
current regulatory requirements and industry good practice. However, Mr and Mrs S 
mortgage had been sold in 2004 and normal/good practice was different then. She went on 
to comment on the matter of the interest rate applied  
The attorney confirmed that she and Mrs S remained unhappy with the investigators 
findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. They said they 
disagreed because:
A car could have been purchased on HP or lease;
A holiday could have been purchased with a personal loan;
Home improvements could have been paid for with a personal loan; and
Mr S income would easily have afforded interest payments if the equity release offered 
this option.
The investigator considered the further points, but she wasnt persuaded to change her 
conclusions. She highlighted Mr and Mrs S disposable income and the cost of short-term 
lending for their needs. She wasnt persuaded that it would have been affordable. In 
addition, the documentation from 2004 confirmed that other options had been considered, 
but Mr and Mrs S chose the lifetime mortgage. 
The attorney confirmed that she wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly comment on the attorneys concerns about the discussions that took place 
differing to what she as an adviser at the present time would be expected to discuss. As our 
investigator has explained, requirements and guidance for the sale of mortgages, including 
lifetime mortgages, has evolved over time. Indeed, at the time Mr and Mrs S mortgage was 
sold to them, there was no regulation in place governing the sale of any mortgages. Rather 
there were voluntary codes and schemes in place, one of which Aviva had signed up to. 
There was and still is no requirement for consumers considering taking out a lifetime 
mortgage to involve their family in the process. It is something that is recommended, but it 
would be entirely inappropriate for an adviser or lender to insist that a customer disclose 
information about their finances to a third party of any description. In this case, the adviser 
recommended that Mr and Mrs S have a family member in the meetings, but they declined to 
do so. They told the adviser that theyd discussed the matter with their family and that they 
were happy for them to proceed. Whether this latter statement was true or not was not 
something that I would expect the adviser to question, as an adviser is entitled to assume 
their customers are being honest with them.As for the suitability of the mortgage for Mr and Mrs S, the point of sale documentation is the 
starting point to establish this. The value of such documents is that they are 
contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the relevant time. 
Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be recorded 
incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance 
of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
In this case, it does appear that alternative ways of raising the money were discussed. 
Indeed, the adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs S use some of their savings initially, 
rather than drawing the maximum from their home in the form of a mortgage. There were 
other types of borrowing suggested, but Mr and Mrs S were recorded as having rejected 
those options because they didnt want to commit to monthly outgoings. While I have noted 
the alternative ways of funding the expenses that the attorney has suggested should have 
been used, rather than the lifetime mortgage being taken, the fact that Mr and Mrs S didnt 
want to commit to monthly payments would mean that they wouldnt have been viable 
options in 2004. That would also apply to arranging a mortgage where Mr and Mrs S would 
be expected to pay the interest on the mortgage on a monthly basis.
In addition, while the interest rate on the mortgage seems high given mortgage rates in 
recent years, interest rates for traditional fixed term mortgages in 2004 was in the region of 
6%. Interest rates for personal loans would have been higher and potentially much higher. 
So even if Mr and Mrs S had been willing to commit to paying out on a monthly basis over 
the short to medium term, it is unlikely that the disposable income from their pensions (as 
Mrs S employed income may not have been available) would have been sufficient to provide 
for the borrowing they wanted. 
As I have said above, interest rates were around 6% for traditional mortgages with a set term 
in 2004. Lifetime mortgages have always involved slightly higher interest rates than 
traditional mortgages, due to the nature of the mortgage. Lenders committed to lending 
money for an unknown period of time, with no income from the arrangement until the 
property was sold following the death or incapacity of the borrower. There is nothing wrong 
with that and the rate that Mr and Mrs S had attached to their mortgage was in line with what 
I would expect to see from that period. 
It is also very common that lifetime lenders offered fixed rates of interest for the entire term 
of the mortgage. This allowed both the lender and the borrower to know where they stood 
within the arrangement. The borrower could be given precise amounts for what they would 
owe when and so understand how the mortgage would affect their estates. If the borrower 
wasnt happy with those figures, they could choose not to apply for the mortgage or turn 
down the offer if they changed their mind after applying. Mr and Mrs S entered into the 
mortgage in the full knowledge of the interest rate that would be charged and how much they 
would owe at various points. I cant find that it is inappropriate for Aviva to administer the 
mortgage in line with the agreement that was entered into. I also cant find that it is being 
unreasonable in declining to alter that contract and back-date the alterations, so that 
Mr and Mrs S would have effectively paid an interest rate for the borrowing that they couldnt 
have obtained in 2004. 
Having said all of the above, I have looked at Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time they 
took the mortgage. Initially, I would say that they would have had to have asked Aviva to talk 
about releasing money from their home, as Aviva didnt cold-call for this type of mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S told the adviser what they wanted to release money for, and how much. 
Alternative options to fulfil Mr and Mrs S requirements were discussed and, given that Mr and Mrs S didnt want to commit to monthly payments, the lifetime mortgage was likely 
the only option they had to do what they wanted. As such, it would appear that the mortgage 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs S needs and priorities in 2004.
The information that Mr and Mrs S were given at the time explained the nature of the 
mortgage and its consequences  making it clear that the debt would increase and could 
increase very significantly in the longer term. This in turn would erode the equity in the 
property and it could be completely eroded. It was also highlighted that the mortgage was 
designed to be in place for the remainder of Mr and Mrs S lives and that if they wanted to 
pay it off earlier an ERC would be payable.  
Overall, while I know that the attorney wont agree, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs S 
understood and accepted the lifetime mortgage contract in 2004. Given that it provided for 
the needs and requirements Mr and Mrs S had, I dont consider that it was mis-sold or 
inappropriate for them at that time. 
I have noted the attorneys comments about what she considered should have been 
discussed about what might happen in the future. She considers Aviva should have 
discussed with Mr and Mrs S the potential consequences of one of them needing fulltime 
care. I can understand why she thinks this in the circumstances, but as our investigator 
pointed out, there were so many potential scenarios that could happen, none of which was 
guaranteed to happen, that all of those possibilities couldnt have been discussed at the time 
of the sale. Had Mr and Mrs S had concerns about that type of situation, they could have 
raised it. In addition, as I have said above, they would have understood how the mortgage 
would impact the equity they owned in the property. It would have been simple enough for 
them to understand that any other debt would reduce the equity even further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman