DRN-3564254
The complaint
Miss P complains about charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
have asked her to pay for refurbishment of a car she had been leasing through an 
agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss P, but I agree with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
Miss P acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss P responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition. I understand that Miss P had some repairs completed on the car before she 
returned it to MBFS. But if the standard of those repairs was of an unacceptable standard, it 
is for Miss P to dispute that with the repairer and it wouldnt be fair to suggest MBFS should 
take the repair attempt into account, as they would still be likely to incur a loss in the resale 
value of the car if returned in an inadequate condition.
The damage charges that remain
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use 
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage in the second report and compared the 
damage to the BVRLA standard.
Bumper scratch
The BVRLA guidelines say that surface scratches of no more than 25mm are acceptable as 
long as the primer or bare metal is not visible, and the scratch can be polished out. 
The photograph shows that the primer is visible through the scratches and they exceed 
25mm. So, I think the charge is reasonable.
Door dent
The BVRLA standard says that dents of less than 15mm are acceptable as long as the paint 
surface is not broken and that chips within dents are not acceptable.
Theres a chip within the dent on the photograph and looking at the distortion in the zebra 
board that has been used to show the extent of the dent, I think its over 15mm. So, I think 
the charge is reasonable.
Missing parcel shelf
The BVRLA guidelines say that cars should be returned with all accessories. The missing 
parcel shelf was identified during both inspections. It was Miss Ps responsibility to ensure 
the car was returned intact and whilst I understand the parcel tray was still in her 
possession, by the time she alerted MBFS of that the car had been taken to auction and it 
seems likely the missing item would have impacted on the resale value. I understand that 
Miss P thinks the inspector should have brought that to her attention at the time of inspection 
but I think its likely he did as the first inspection report notes the missing part and Miss P 
would have been asked to sign it. I therefore think the charge is reasonable.
Quarter panel dent
The BVRLA standard says that dents of less than 15mm are acceptable but the zebra board 
shows that the dent here is well in excess of that standard. I think the charge was 
reasonable.
Wheel damage
The BVRLA guidelines say that there should be no damage to the spokes and the 
photographs show damage to the spokes on both wheels. I therefore think the charges have 
been levied reasonably.
Missing V5
The BVRLA guidelines say that all vehicle documentation must be available including the 
V5C. So, Im also satisfied that this charge is reasonable as the V5C was not returned.
Overall, I dont think Ive seen evidence that MBFS have been unreasonable when applying 
the charges that they have and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman