DRN-4306473
The complaint
Miss L complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited caused delays in 
reaching a decision on a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy, which prejudiced 
her position in the legal proceedings against her. Shes also unhappy with the decision it 
reached to decline cover. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a brief summary of the key events here. 
On 19 July 2022, Miss L made a claim to DAS regarding a dispute with the 
management company of her property. Shed withheld service charge payments due 
to the unsatisfactory service being provided, and as a result she was accruing late 
payment fees and receiving threats of legal action being taken against her.
The following day, DAS acknowledged Miss Ls claim and set out what she could 
expect from the claim process. This letter said DAS would assess the claim to check 
its covered by the policy and, if it is, instruct solicitors to assess whether there was a 
reasonable chance of the claim succeeding.
DAS requested further information from Miss L on 25 July 2022. Specifically, it asked 
her to confirm whether she had a contract in place with the management company. 
Miss L responded the same day to say that she believed there was a contract in 
place but personally shed never seen it and the previous resident was refusing to 
give her a copy. 
On 2 August 2022, DAS accepted the claim and instructed its panel firm of solicitors. 
It told both Miss L and the panel firm that the claim was a contract dispute which 
was covered by the policy. 
In late September, the panel firm queried with DAS whether this claim was in fact 
covered by the policy as there didnt seem to be a contract in place between Miss L 
and the management company. And in any event, it didnt think it had the required 
expertise for what appeared to be a property dispute. So it told DAS it couldnt take 
on the case.
This prompted DAS to review the claim and on 31 October 2022, it advised Miss L 
that there was no cover under her policy for this type of dispute. This was because 
Miss L didnt hold a contract with the management company in her personal capacity, 
and it didnt fall under any other section of cover.
Miss L raised a complaint about DAS decision to decline the claim and the time it 
had taken to make it. She said the delay in getting legal support has resulted in more 
late payment charges being accrued on her service charge arrears, and its 
jeapardised her legal position because she hasnt followed the pre-action protocol 
following the threat of legal action against her. 
DAS responded to the complaint in January 2023. It said the decision to decline 
cover was correct and that there werent any delays in handling the claim. But it 
acknowledged that cover had been confirmed in error, which it apologised for. To 
recognise the upset and inconvenience of cover being withdrawn, it offered £100 
compensation. 
Miss L didnt think this fairly compensated her for what went wrong, so she brought 
her complaint to our service. But our Investigator was satisfied that the offer of £100 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, and she didnt think 
DAS needed to do more. 
As Miss L didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide and I issued the 
following provisional decision.
Provisional decision
Firstly, to be clear, Im aware Miss L is unhappy with the panel firm of solicitors, but I cant 
comment on that. Theyre a separate entity to DAS and dont act on its behalf, so I cant 
fairly hold DAS liable for their actions. Solicitors have their own regulatory body and 
ombudsman service. So, if Miss L is unhappy with the day-to-day handling of her legal case, 
the conduct, actions, or advice of a legal professional, shell need to raise this with them 
directly and escalate it to the relevant dispute resolution service, the Legal Ombudsman. 
Claims decision
The terms and conditions of Miss Ls policy say it will cover contract disputes defined as 
your legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement 
which you have entered into forthe buying or hiring in of any goods or services, or the 
selling of any goods.
Miss L doesnt have a contract with the management company personally, rather this was a 
contract entered into by what appears to be the freeholders as a Residents Management 
Association. I cant see any other section of cover which this claim would fall into. As such, 
Im satisfied that DAS decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Claims handling
Prior to instructing solicitors, it was DAS role to determine whether Miss Ls claim fell within 
the policy terms and conditions. It said so in its letter to Miss L dated 20 July 2022. But 
despite specifically asking Miss L whether she had a contract in place with the management 
company, and receiving information that implied she might not, DAS went ahead and 
instructed solicitors regardless. 
Im persuaded that DAS had enough information to be on notice that the claim may not be 
covered on 25 July 2022. I say this because Miss L said she believed there was a contract 
in place but that she hadnt seen it (my emphasis). If Miss L had personally entered into a 
contract, she wouldve had to have seen it in order to sign it. Instead, she said the old 
management resident was refusing to give her a copy which implied that someone else was 
a party to the contract. 
Whilst this comment alone may not have given DAS enough grounds to conclude that the 
claim wasnt covered, Im satisfied it was enough to prompt it to ask further questions. Had it 
done so, DAS most likely wouldve discovered for itself that Miss L wasnt a party to the contract and that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. This wouldve resulted in the 
claim being declined almost three months earlier than it was.
In missing the opportunity to assess the claim correctly, DAS subjected Miss L to a delay 
during a time when she was under threat of legal action and under an obligation to comply 
with the pre-action protocol. And even after being advised by the panel solicitors on 29 
September 2022 that the claim was unlikely to be covered, DAS still didnt inform Miss L of 
its decision to decline the claim until a month later. So Im persuaded there were delays 
here, and that they were avoidable. 
Putting things right
When awarding compensation, I must consider the impact Miss L has suffered as a result of 
whats gone wrong. I have no doubt that this whole process has caused her distress and 
inconvenience at an already stressful time. Furthermore, Miss L tells us that late payment 
fees were accruing on her arrears during these delays and her legal claim was jeopardised. 
Taking everything into account, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im inclined to increase 
compensation to a total of £300 (inclusive of DAS initial offer of £100). Im satisfied this fairly 
reflects the impact caused to Miss L based on the length of the delays and the distress it 
wouldve caused. 
Im not minded to award Miss L the late payment fees themselves. This is because it was 
Miss Ls decision to withhold her service charge payments from the management company, 
and she was aware that they were applying these late fees prior to making her claim. So 
whilst I appreciate she feels shes in a worse position now than before her claim, I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Miss L wouldve brought her account up to date had DAS 
declined her claim correctly at the outset.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Miss L has told us she has nothing more to add. And DAS has accepted my provisional 
decision, confirming that no compensation has been paid as yet.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss L compensation of £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman