DRN-1802319
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
handled a claim on her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In May 2019, Miss A was involved in a car accident while approaching a roundabout. 
Advantage says, at first, it told Miss A that she would not be liable. But later, when they sent 
the dashboard camera footage of the accident, (provided by Miss A), to the third-party 
insurer - liability was disputed by the third-party insurer. Advantage says that after Miss A 
raised a complaint, they tried to settle the liability with the third-party insurer on a 50/50 
basis. But, the third-party insurer didnt agree with them. The third-party insurer said it was 
Miss As fault because she changed lanes and the duty of care was on her to ensure the 
way was clear. 
Advantage says, after this, they did their own further review and accepted liability because, 
based on the evidence they have seen, they could not successfully defend the claim. 
Advantage said if they felt they were in a position to defend the claim, they would have done 
so; as they were financially invested. But they felt that most likely they would be 
unsuccessful and would end up being liable for both theirs and the third-partys court fees. 
However, Advantage did send Miss A £100 compensation cheque in recognition of the 
service issues she has experienced when initially dealing with the claim.
Miss A says that her explanation of the lane structure, the camera footage of the junction, 
and the street view were not reviewed or responded to in any material way by Advantage. 
She also felt that the dashboard camera footage of the accident was not taken into 
consideration when liability was decided. She says, she has evidenced that she was 
established in a lane that splits in two, and forks to the left, while the third-party driver 
conversely sped from the right lane cutting across the middle lane (the lane she was in) 
which resulted in the collision. 
Miss A says the accident should be classed as a non-fault, she should not be required to pay 
any excess, and her no claims discount should not be affected. She is also unhappy that 
Advantage did not respond to the Data Subject Access Request she made. Overall Miss A 
disagreed with Advantages decision and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Advantage handle Miss As claim in a fair and reasonable manner and in line with the 
terms and conditions of her policy?
My role here is to consider whether Advantage handled Miss As claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner and in line with her policy terms. Its not to determine who was liable for 
the accident.
Miss A feels strongly that at the point the liability decision was made by Advantage, not all 
relevant information was taken into consideration. Miss A says that a burden rests on 
Advantage to demonstrate that all evidence was taken into consideration. 
It is important for me to explain that according to the terms and conditions of Miss As 
insurance policy, Advantage have full discretion in how they settle or defend a claim. But that 
decision needs to be based on facts and evidence. I have therefore considered this to see if 
Advantage has made their decision in line with the policy, but also on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
When reaching their decision Advantage considered: 
- Miss As version of events
- the dashboard camera footage of the accident provided by Miss A 
- the camera footage of the scene taken after the accident (showing the road layout) 
provided by Miss A 
- road layout on a map
Overall, Advantage said that Miss A was the one that made the manoeuvre which caused 
the accident; by turning into the path of the third party. They felt that the road markings and 
where the third party was traveling would not hold a lot of weight in court. 
 
I know Miss A disagrees with Advantages interpretation of the evidence and doesnt agree 
that she should be liable. But, I think Advantage has followed the terms of their policy and 
exercised their discretion reasonably, based on what they considered, when coming to their 
final conclusion. And insurers arent required to take the third party to court in order to decide 
liability just because their policyholder wants them to. Advantage is entitled, under the terms 
of Miss As policy, to settle a claim as they see fit.
Is Advantage required to do anything else regarding Miss As claim?
Advantage has admitted there were mistakes in their initial handling of the claim and sent a 
£100 cheque to Miss A. Based on the circumstances of this complaint I believe this is 
reasonable, as it provides a fair level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Miss A has experienced; as a result of Advantage acting inappropriately initially. Miss A also mentioned she is unhappy that Advantage did not respond to the Data Subject 
Access Request she made. Advantage provided our service with a copy of the letter it issued 
to Miss A on 21 August 2019. This letter says they are enclosing her policy correspondence, 
claim correspondence, and an audio copy of all calls available in relation to her policy and 
her claim. I can see this was addressed to the address which matches the one Miss A has 
provided to our service. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that this was posted to Miss A. It may be that she has not received this correspondence due 
to issues with the post. While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the post, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to hold Advantage responsible for that. It is not something over 
which they have any control.
While I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss A, taking all the 
available evidence into consideration, Im not asking Advantage to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman