DRN-3850839
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he did not receive the correct cashback incentive payments from 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) he was entitled to when he transferred his ISA and 
SIPP from another platform in 2021.
What happened
Mr H transferred his ISA and SIPP from another platform who I shall refer to as Company A 
in this decision. He also transferred a further SIPP which he held with a different platform 
which I shall refer to as Company B.
Mr H complained to II but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said;
He had transferred his ISA on 7 October 2021 and received £100 which was the 
highest amount payable.
It detailed the cashback incentives for SIPP transfers for which Mr H received £150 
for the transfer from Company B. The incentive promotion was different for SIPPs.
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
Mr H hadnt actually qualified for the cashback incentive for the ISA which ran from 1 
July to 31 August 2021 as his transfer was initiated in April 2021.
II had paid him the maximum incentive amount for the ISA transfer of £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill and which was credited to Mr Hs account on 23 November 2021.
Mr H had been credited £150 for the SIPP transfer on 6 December 2021. That 
amount was because the value of Mr Hs SIPP transfer fell between the bracket of 
£25,000 and £100,000. 
He didnt think II needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He explained that he had experienced delays in both 
the ISA (valued at around £300,000) and SIPP (valued at around £470,000) being 
transferred from Company A. Not all of his investments were transferred at the same time  
one fund for the ISA account valued at around £52,000 and two funds for the SIPP valued at 
a total of around £158,000. 
He said further cashback should apply for those outstanding SIPP and ISA transfers 
originally from the inception of the transfers  in April 2021   and as well as for any new 
SIPP and ISA cashback offered ongoing for any ISA and SIPP funds not yet transferred. And 
Mr H recalls that the cashback amount for a SIPP transfer was £500.  Mr H thought he was 
entitled to further cash back as other cashback offers came into play.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The ISA transfer
II has explained that the cashback incentive scheme was per account transfer and not per 
line of stock held. In any event, Mr H didnt meet the qualifying criteria for his ISA, but it had 
paid him the maximum possible cashback sum of £100 as a gesture of goodwill in relation to 
a complaint he had with it. The sum was credited to his account on 23 November 2021. 
I note from a secure message sent to Mr H on 26 August 2021 that as Mr Hs ISA transfer is 
still going, I believe you can be eligible for this offer. As stated in a previous message, I dont 
deal with ISA transfer and I will assign this message to the case handler. 
A further message sent to Mr H on 7 September still implied Mr H was entitled to the offer 
The above client is eligible for the cashback offer as he has submitted the transfer before 
31st August. He doesnt need to get the paperwork in before that date.
As it transpired the above was incorrect and Mr H wasnt eligible for the incentive payment 
because of the terms of the promotion. Those terms outlined that the transfer needed to be 
submitted between 1 July and 31 August 2021 for a flat payment of £100. Mr Hs transfer 
was initiated in April 2021 so fell outside of the dates of the promotion.
II has provided a copy of the ISA cashback offer terms and conditions which I note says;
1. Subject to these offer terms, you will be entitled to receive a £100 cashback 
payment (the Offer) from Interactive Investor Services Limited.if you 
submit one or more Qualifying transfers to us and the Qualifying Criteria are 
met
2. The Offer only applies to transfer requests of an ISA from another ISA 
provider in accordance with this clause 2 into a new or existing ii ISA received 
between 1 July and 31 August 2021.
..
7. You are only entitled to a maximum of one cashback payment in Connection 
with the Offer.
I understand from correspondence on file that the offer was extended. But I dont think that 
has any impact on any amount Mr H may be due. Mr H wasnt in fact entitled to any 
cashback for the ISA transfer because of the dates that applied to the offer. However, II has 
already paid Mr H as a gesture of goodwill. 
Taking all of this into account I dont think II needs to do anything more. It has paid to Mr H 
the amount he was potentially entitled to. Any delays Mr H may have experienced in 
transferring all of his ISA assets dont make any difference to the amount payable  it was 
payable per ISA account and irrespective of when the individual stocks received. And it was 
the date of the initial transfer request made in April 2021 that triggered any cashback 
entitlement. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this element of Mr Hs complaint. 
The SIPP transfer 
The SIPP cashback offer terms say;1. Subject to these offer terms, you will be entitled to receive a cashback 
payment from Interactive Investor Services Limited.if you submit a 
Qualifying Transfer to us.between 1 August 2021 and 30 September 
2021.The cashback amount will be calculated in accordance with the table 
below.
Qualifying Transfer amount Cashback
£25,000 - £100,000 £150
£100,000.01 - £500,000 £250
£500,000.01+ £500
Mr H was credited with £150 on 6 December 2021.This was in payment in respect of a 
transfer into Mr Hs SIPP of £34,923.47 from Company B on 29 November 2021. 
So, Mr H is correct in his recollection that the cashback payment he could have potentially 
been paid was £500. But the amount received by II within the appropriate time limits was for 
the lower amount of £34,923.47 so Mr H was entitled to the reduced cashback sum of £150 
which he was paid. 
Mr H is not entitled to any cashback for any SIPP transfer from Company A because of the 
dates that applied. The instruction to transfer Mr Hs SIPP to II was given in April 2021 so fell 
outside of the dates as confirmed in the SIPP cashback offer terms. Mr H has said not all of 
his funds were transferred to II in a timely manner and so the dates of transfer did fall within 
the dates of the terms. But I dont agree. It was at the point of the origination of the transfer 
instruction that is applicable and not the dates the underlying investments were actually 
transferred. 
So I dont think Mr H has interpreted the terms of the cashback offer correctly and I dont find 
that he was entitled to receive a cashback payment for the SIPP transfer from Company A to 
II as the instruction for the SIPP was outside of the relevant dates of the terms. 
Overall, I dont find that II needs to do anything further. It has correctly paid the sum of £150 
for the SIPP transfer from Company B and it has already paid Mr H £100 for the ISA transfer 
but as a gesture of goodwill. I dont agree that any delays in all of the assets being 
transferred cause for further payment to be made to him. The requests for the transfers had 
to be within the dates as per the schemes terms. And I dont agree that Mr H is entitled to 
any cashback offers that came about after his original instruction. The amounts paid relate to 
the accounts themselves and have nothing to do with the underlying stocks with the 
exception of the value transferred for the SIPP. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman