DRN-4121530
The complaint
Miss D complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down her private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
Miss D holds private medical insurance cover with Bupa. In 2022, she made a claim for 
gastric bypass surgery, in order to treat her condition of gastroparesis. 
Bupa turned down the claim as it was of the view that gastric bypass surgery to treat 
Miss Ds condition would be considered experimental or unproven, which isnt covered under 
the policy. Unhappy with Bupas decision, Miss D brought a complaint to this service. I 
understand she went ahead with the surgery and paid for this herself.
Our investigator ultimately didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said there were 
limited studies on the use of the treatment for Miss Ds condition, and the results were 
mixed. He therefore agreed with Bupa that gastric bypass surgery wasnt considered 
standard clinical treatment for gastroparesis, and thought Bupas decision to turn down the 
claim was reasonable. 
Miss D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes treatment that is considered to be unproven or investigational with 
regards to safety and efficacy. It says that Bupa does not pay for any treatment that is not 
considered to be in standard clinical use. 
The policy then provides further information, and says standard clinical use includes:
treatment agreed to be best or good practice in national or international evidence-
based (but not consensus-based) guidelines, such as those produced by NICE 
(National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) (excluding medicines approved 
through the UK Cancer Drugs Fund), Royal Colleges or equivalent national specialist 
bodies in the country of treatment; 
the conclusions from independent evidence-based health technology assessment or 
systemic review (e.g. Hayes, CADTH, The Cochrane Collaboration, the NCCN level 
1 or Bupas in-house Clinical Effectiveness team) indicate that the treatment is safe 
and effective;
where the treatment has received full regulatory approval by the licensing authority 
(e.g US Food and Drugs Agency (FDA), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), the 
Saudi Arabia Food and Drug Agency, etc.) in the location where the member has 
requested treatment, and is duly licensed for the condition and patient population 
being requested (please note  full regulatory approval would require submission of 
data to the local licensing agency that adequately demonstrated safety and 
effectiveness in published phase 3 trials); and/or
tests, treatment, equipment, medicines, devices or procedures which are mandated 
to be made available by the local law or regulation in the country in which treatment 
is requested.
Ive read the information provided by both parties to see whether gastric bypass surgery is 
considered standard clinical treatment for gastroparesis. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
that it is. Ill explain why. 
NICE is an independent public body that provides evidence-based guidance and advice for 
health practitioners, with the aim of improving health in England. The NICE guidance on 
gastroparesis discusses the use of medicine to treat the condition, as well as gastroelectrical 
stimulation as another treatment option. However, it doesnt mention gastric bypass surgery 
as an option. 
Miss Ds representative has provided articles which refer to some studies that suggest 
gastric bypass for gastroparesis can have good results (though as Bupa has pointed out, two 
of those studies include a very small patient sample size). However, the policy says that 
case studies, observational studies, editorials, advertorials, letters, conference abstracts and 
non-peer reviewed published or unpublished studies are not considered appropriate 
evidence to demonstrate that treatment should be used in standard clinical use. 
Bupa has referred to an article which says theres limited controlled data of surgical 
treatment of gastroparesis, and that most uncontrolled studies report disappointing 
responses. Another article refers to morbidity occurring in up to 40% of patients.
I agree with our investigator that there are limited studies on gastric bypass surgery as a 
treatment option for gastroparesis, and the results on the safety and efficacy of the surgery 
for this condition are mixed. The surgery hasnt been approved by NICE as safe and 
effective for treatment of gastroparesis, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that it is 
in standard clinical use for this condition, based on the guidance set out above. 
I can of course understand why Miss D decided to go ahead with the surgery, with the 
support of her doctors who thought this treatment was the best option for her. Nonetheless, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Bupa to conclude that gastric bypass surgery is 
considered unproven or investigational with regards to the safety and efficacy of treating 
gastroparesis. I therefore find that Bupa turned down the claim fairly, and in line with the 
policy terms.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman