DRN-3356751
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs B have complained that Soteria Insurance Limited trading as The Co-
operative Insurance (Soteria) unfairly declined part of a claim under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs B contacted Soteria as water had entered their home causing damage. 
Soteria assessed the claim and declined the claim for the external damage because it said 
there wasnt evidence of storm damage. It agreed to cover some of the internal damage as 
accidental damage. 
When Mr G and Mrs B complained, Soteria maintained its decision to decline the claim for 
the external damage. It said the surveyor had found the damage was most likely caused by 
a problem with the brickwork around the window, which Mr G and Mrs B would need to 
investigate. The internal damage to the office was accepted as accidental damage, for which 
it offered a settlement. However, the damage to the bedroom below was declined as Soteria 
said this could have been prevented if the leak had been looked into when it first happened, 
as it happened on an intermittent basis. It said it couldnt keep claims open indefinitely so 
had closed it because Mr G and Mrs B hadnt provided further evidence to support their 
claim. However, this could still be sent at a later date. 
When Mr G and Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
it was reasonable for Soteria to decline the claim for the external damage and the internal 
damage to the bedroom as there wasnt evidence to show it was covered by the policy. 
As Mr G and Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports around the time the damage was 
reported. In the couple of weeks before the claim, I saw there were windspeeds of 64 mph, 
which would be considered storm strength winds. So, I think the answer to the first question 
is yes.
So, Ive looked at the second question. The surveyor said water appeared to be getting in 
around the window, but couldnt identify a source for this and didnt identify any storm 
damage. Looking at the surveyors findings, I think that was reasonable. Soteria also wasnt 
required to keep looking into whether there was damage, as it for the policyholder to show 
they have a valid claim. Soteria told Mr G and Mrs B they should arrange for a builder to look 
at this. It also agreed to look at further evidence they provided. So, I think Soteria acted 
reasonably. However, I think the answer to the second question is no, as there wasnt 
evidence to show what the external damage actually was and or that it was storm related. As 
a result, I also dont need to consider the third question.
Im also aware the surveyor noted Mr G said water had leaked through before but a lot more 
water entered during the storm, which was when the internal damage in the office appeared. 
The damage to the bedroom below the office was declined as water had leaked into the 
property intermittently over time and the surveyor was of the view the damage to the 
bedroom wouldnt have happened if the leak had been dealt with earlier. Accidental damage 
is defined in the policy as physical damage that is caused suddenly by an external event 
and that is unexpected and not deliberate. So, I think it was reasonable that Soteria didnt 
cover the damage to the bedroom as part of the claim.
Mr G and Mrs B said the settlement they were offered for the internal damage wasnt enough 
to cover the cost of the work. However, Soteria was only offering a settlement for the 
damage covered by the claim. So, I wouldnt expect the settlement to cover the full cost of 
the internal works
Mr G and Mrs B also complained that Soteria closed the claim. Looking at what happened, 
Soteria said Mr G and Mrs B could submit further evidence if they wanted to, but when this 
wasnt received it closed the claim. I wouldnt expect an insurer to keep a claim open 
indefinitely. Im also aware that Soteria said it would consider further evidence if this was 
submitted later. So, I think that was reasonable.
Thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Soteria to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman