DRN-4190431
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc declined his claim for a refund under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 of his purchase of 1,000 bricks.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr H bought 1,000 reclaimed bricks from a trader, and paid for them with his 
Sainsburys Bank credit card. Five days after the bricks were delivered, Mr H told the trader 
he wanted to reject the bricks, as he was not satisfied with their quality.
After phoning the trader, Mr H emailed the trader to check which address he should return 
the bricks to. In that email, Mr H said that if he received no reply that same day, then he 
would dispose of the bricks. Mr H says that he received no reply to that email or any of his 
other emails or text messages, and that the trader would not assist him during the phone 
call. So a couple of days later, he sent the bricks to a local salvage yard (because the trader 
was about 200 miles away). Mr H paid about £290 to a delivery firm to take the bricks there. 
There is a dispute about whether the salvage yard was going to pay Mr H for the bricks, or 
whether Mr H donated them for free.
Mr H then asked Sainsburys for a refund of the purchase price of the bricks, and the cost of 
delivering them to the salvage yard, under section 75. But Sainsburys declined his claim, on 
the grounds that Mr H had not returned the bricks to the trader, the salvage yard was going 
to pay him for the bricks, and it was no longer possible to verify the alleged poor condition of 
the bricks.
Mr H complained to our service about the banks decision. Our investigator was not 
persuaded that the bricks were in unsatisfactory condition, considering that they were 
reclaimed bricks. But he upheld Mr Hs complaint on another ground. He pointed out that 
regulations1 gave Mr H a right to cancel his purchase without giving any reason (provided 
that he did so within 14 days of the bricks being delivered to him, which he had done). The 
regulations provided that Mr H was entitled to a refund from the trader, and that there was an 
implied term to that effect in his contract. As the trader had breached this term, the bank was 
liable for this breach under section 75.
The investigator recommended that the bank refund Mr H the cost of the bricks and the cost 
of delivering the bricks to the salvage yard, with interest, plus another £100 for his 
inconvenience.
The bank did not accept that decision. It said:
Mr H had acted unreasonably by sending the bricks to a third party instead of back to 
the trader he had bought them from;
Mr H had clearly known the traders address, since he had written that address in his 
email to the trader in which he had asked it to confirm this was the correct address to 
send the bricks to (and that address also appeared on the traders paperwork and on 
1 The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. See 
https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/3134/part/3 .
its website);
Mr H had imposed an unreasonably strict timescale on the trader, as at 4:14pm he 
had sent his email requiring a response that same day or else he would dispose of 
the bricks;
Mr H had sent the bricks to the salvage yard only eight days after telling the trader he 
wanted to reject them, even though the regulations allowed the trader 14 days to 
collect or accept delivery of the bricks;
Mr H had previously said that he didnt need to get rid of the bricks until the end of 
September, but he had sent them to the salvage yard early in that month.
Our investigator considered those points, but he did not change his mind. He said that as the 
trader had been ignoring Mr Hs emails and text messages, Mr H had been entitled to 
mitigate his loss by sending the bricks to a third party instead of back to the trader. He 
thought that Mr Hs timescale was unimportant because of the traders failure or refusal to 
communicate with him.
The bank asked for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional decision which read as 
follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regardless of whether the quality of the bricks was satisfactory, the regulations gave Mr H 
the right to reject the bricks without giving a reason. This was an implied term of his contract, 
and so the bank is liable for any breach of that term.
However, this is not an absolute right. Regulation 34(5) says that no refund is due until 14 
days after the day on which the trader receives the goods back. Since the trader never got 
the bricks back, the refund never became due. So I have considered why this state of affairs 
came about, and what should happen as a result.
I think it was the traders responsibility under regulation 35(1)(b) to collect the goods. So if 
the trader did not agree to do that during the phone call, or in subsequent correspondence 
(and I accept that is the case here), then it might not be fair to allow the trader to hide behind 
regulation 34(5). Instead, I could say that the refund still had to be paid anyway, and that the 
cost of Mr H returning the goods to the trader should be refunded as well. But there are two 
objections which the bank has made about that. One is that Mr H sent the goods to a third 
party, and the other is that he did so only a couple of days after the phone call.
Although paragraphs (2) to (7) of regulation 35 do not technically apply in this case, because 
they are only about circumstances where the trader is not responsible for collecting the 
goods (and I think it was the traders responsibility to do so in this case), I nevertheless think 
it is still useful to consider some of those paragraphs here, as a guide to how Mr H should 
have responded to the traders refusal to assist him. I think that is a fair and reasonable 
approach to follow, largely because the regulations, if strictly interpreted, do not actually say 
what a consumers remedy is if a trader fails to comply with regulation 35(1).
Paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) say that the consumer must send the goods back to the trader 
without undue delay, and that he can send them to any place of business of the trader if 
the trader doesnt specify an address to send them to. I think the words without undue 
delay mean that the rather fast timescale in which Mr H acted cannot be faulted. 14 days is 
the maximum time he was allowed; it does not mean that he was supposed to wait for that 
long. On the contrary, he was supposed to act quickly.I think it was reasonable of Mr H to ask the trader where he should send the bricks, in case 
the trader wanted to nominate a different site (which a trader is entitled to do under these 
paragraphs, when they apply). However, when Mr H received no reply, that didnt mean he 
could send the bricks anywhere he liked, or treat them as his own to do with as he pleased. 
The regulations simply do not envisage goods being sent to a third party, whether by 
donation or by sale. They say that the goods must be sent to the trader, and may be sent to 
any address where the trader carries on his business. There isnt an exception for when the 
trader and the consumer live far apart.
If I took the opposite view, it would mean that a consumer would be entitled to sell the goods 
and still be entitled to a full refund. That would be an unusual and draconian outcome, so 
I think if that is what the regulations were intended to do, then they would have said so in 
clear terms, instead of leaving it to be inferred from their silence on the subject.
For these reasons, I do not regard the deadline in regulation 34(5) as a mere technicality. 
I think that by not returning the bricks to the trader, and treating them as his own to do with 
as he wanted, Mr H thereby waived his right to reject them, and effectively accepted them. 
Or to put it in a way which is more consistent with the text of the regulations, the deadline by 
which the trader had to refund Mr H can never apply now, and I do not think it would be fair 
and reasonable of me to substitute a deadline of my own.
I am therefore satisfied that the bank did not mishandle Mr Hs section 75 claim.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
The bank agreed with my provisional decision. Mr H did not. He made the following points:
He reiterated that the trader had been unco-operative, and pointed out that as the 
trader has never actually been told that the bricks have been delivered to a third 
party, he is still technically waiting for a response from the trader;
It is therefore irrelevant that the bricks have gone to a third party, because even if 
Mr H had kept them at home all this time, he would still be awaiting the traders 
response;
Under regulation 35 it is the traders responsibility to collect the bricks;
Mr H denied that he had waived the right to reject the bricks, as he had already 
rejected them within the regulatory deadline  instead, the trader had waived its right 
to have the bricks back, by not engaging with Mr H and not complying with the 
regulations;
Although Mr H had known an address used by the trader, and the regulations state 
that a consumer may return goods to any place of business of the trader if the trader 
does not specify a particular address for return, that address might not have been a 
delivery yard, but just a correspondence address entirely unsuitable for the delivery 
of 1,000 bricks. Mr H pointed out that the delivery of pallets of bricks cant realistically 
be done unilaterally; it has to be done by arrangement, because if the address is 
unsuitable for delivery then Mr H would be liable for additional costs and the bricks 
might end up being returned to his home;
My interpretation of the regulations leads to a catch-22 situation in which the 
consumer is left without a remedy in the face of an unresponsive trader;
The traders reluctance to take the bricks back suggests that it actually doesnt want 
them back.I think that all of those submissions are attractive, and so I have reconsidered this case, 
starting with examining the regulations again.
The regulations
I have found two clauses that I overlooked when I wrote my provisional decision. Regulation 
34(4) says:
(4) Reimbursement must be without undue delay, and in any event not later than the 
time specified in paragraph (5) or (6).
I have already referred to paragraph (5), which says the time limit is 14 days from when the 
trader receives the goods back. Then paragraph (6) says:
(6) Otherwise, the time is the end of 14 days after the day on which the trader is 
informed of the consumer's decision to withdraw the offer or cancel the contract
So contrary to what I wrote in my provisional decision about the regulations, they do provide 
for what happens if a trader fails to collect the goods  they say the refund still has to be paid 
without undue delay, and no later than 14 days from when the goods were rejected.
That by itself doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint, because I had already said in my 
provisional decision that I would not let the trader hide behind regulation 34(5) by not 
complying with its duty to collect the bricks. As I said before, this case really turns on what 
I should make of Mr H sending the bricks to a third party. So I now turn to that.
The disposal of the bricks
On further reflection, I am now satisfied by the traders conduct that the trader was not 
interested in getting the bricks back. I also take Mr Hs point about the potential difficulty in 
returning bricks to an address which may turn out to be unsuitable. So I no longer take the 
view that Mr Hs decision to send the bricks on to a third party (a scrapyard) should mean 
that his claim should have automatically failed. And even if he sold them, I would regard that 
as a reasonable step taken by him to mitigate his loss.
However, I still agree with the bank that Mr H should not get double recovery. That is to say, 
he should not get his money back twice. The bank says the salvage yard told it that it was 
going to pay Mr H for the bricks; Mr H says he donated them for free. I previously thought 
this was a moot point, but now I have to consider how the bank dealt with this issue.
The bank wrote to the scrapyard on 7 October 2021, and received a reply on 11 October. 
The reply stated that the scrapyard was buying the bricks from Mr H. I realise that Mr H 
disputes that, but I think that the bank was entitled to accept the scrapyards answer, since 
the scrapyard was not invested in the outcome of Mr Hs section 75 claim, and the bank has 
no means of ascertaining whether Mr H or the scrapyard was more reliable than the other.
I should emphasise here that my role is only to determine whether the bank mishandled 
Mr Hs section 75 claim, not to re-investigate it myself and then to substitute my own view for 
the banks. So taking into account the evidence received by the bank at the time, I am 
satisfied that the bank was entitled to reject Mr Hs claim, because it was entitled to conclude 
that he was already being reimbursed for the bricks by a third party.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman