DRN-1645313
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about three instalment loans he took with Gain Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. He says these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
Lending Stream provided Mr K with 11 instalment loans between May 2017 and           
October 2018. Loans 10 and 11 are outstanding at the time of writing this decision. 
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mr K 
with the first five loans. But they thought that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loans 
6 and 11 to Mr K. So, they partially upheld Mr Ks complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view, but it didnt provide the correct calculations 
for the redress. Our adjudicator went back and gave guidance on the correct calculations, 
but Lending Stream didnt change its offer. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about loans 1 to 5. As Mr K has accepted the 
adjudicators opinion about these loans, I wont make any further findings on it. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators findings that loans 6 and 11 shouldnt have 
been lent. Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these 
loans werent suitable for Mr K. 
Lending Stream provided its calculations for the redress. These are:
 Refund interest and charges: £480.47
 Pay interest at 8% simple: £41.41
 Deduct 20% withholding tax: £8.28
 Apply refund to the outstanding balance on loans 10 to 11: £370.22
 Refund to be paid to Mr K: £143.38
 Remove the negative credit file entries on loans 5
 Remove loans 6 to 11 from the credit file
However, the transaction history for loans 10 and 11 show that the capital borrowed was 
£450 and Mr K had made £421.16 in repayments. This leaves an outstanding capital of 
£28.84.
So, Mr K is due a redress of £302.79 plus 8% interest minus £28.84 (the outstanding 
principal)
For clarity I have outlined what Lending Stream has agreed to do below. 
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts Lending Stream should buy these back if 
Lending Stream is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream cant 
buy the debts back, then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below.A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Lending Stream has already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr K having made 
overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr K. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Lending Stream has 
already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing for loans 6 to 11 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ks 
credit file. Lending Stream does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Ks credit 
file until these have been repaid, but Lending Stream should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit LLC 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Gain Credit LLC should make sure it calculates his 
redress correctly as also outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman