DRN-2232924
The complaint
Mr B complains that Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) charged 
him a success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) complaint. He says he was led 
to believe he was only requesting a free PPI check. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B completed a request for a free PPI check online. FTR sent Mr B some 
paperwork to complete in the post, but he didnt return it. 
In July 2019, a lender informed Mr B it had upheld his PPI mis-selling complaint and sent 
him a settlement offer. FTR sent Mr B an invoice for 20% (+VAT) of the settlement.
 
Mr B told FTR he hadnt realised that charges would be applied as he thought it was a free 
PPI checker service. He said if hed known there would be charges, he wouldnt have agreed 
to it as it would have been just as easy to check for PPI directly himself. He also asked if 
FTR would be willing to let him pay the fee in instalments as he was experiencing financial 
difficulty and was going through a difficult time, supporting his mother who was in poor 
health. 
FTR wouldnt agree to a payment arrangement. It said it would expect a client to pay in full if 
their settlement had been paid to them in full. It said his account was about to enter a debt 
recovery process and would be referred to a solicitor if full payment was not received by the 
end of the following month.
Mr B complained that he hadnt realised he was entering into a formal legally binding 
contract with FTR. Hed used the service because it was a free PPI checker. He hadnt 
signed or sent any confirmation to FTR to deal with the matter on his behalf, other than the 
free PPI check. He hadnt sent any paperwork when asked to support the claim further. 
FTR acknowledged that Mr B hadnt returned any paperwork, but said its fee was charged in 
line with the terms and conditions Mr B had agreed to. It said it would consider offering Mr B 
a payment plan if he provided proof of his income and an income and expenditure form.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 September 2020, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require FTR to communicate with its customers in a way that is 
fair, clear and not misleading. 
FTR says Mr B agreed to its terms and conditions when submitting his request for the free 
PPI check. Its referred to this wording: Once PPI is identified, the free PPI check period 
ends and you authorise FTR to continue to provide you with the Claims Services.
 
Mr B says he was led to believe that all he was agreeing to, was a free PPI check and his 
intention was to make any claims himself if PPI was found. So, I need to be satisfied that 
FTR had made it clear to him that he was agreeing for it to pursue his claims if he didnt 
cancel the agreement.
FTR says it isnt able to send us screenshots of what was showing on its website when Mr B 
agreed to the free PPI check in April 2019. It sent us screenshots of what was showing from 
July 2019 before our investigator issued her view. More recently, its sent us screenshots of 
what it says was on its website from 2018. The screenshots of the front page of the website 
appear to be the same as those FTR previously sent us. FTR told us that the website 
journey remained the same but the terms & conditions on the final page changed depending 
on when the client engaged its services.
Ive located an archive of FTRs website from January 2019 which shows the front page was 
different to what was showing on the screenshots FTR has sent us. I sent FTR screenshots 
of what Id found and asked FTR for its comments because I thought this was more likely to 
have been what Mr B saw when he engaged FTRs services in April 2019.
FTR said the screenshots Id provided only showed the front page from January 2019 and 
not any of the other pages a client would have seen whilst making their application. It said 
the screenshots it had sent us showed the web journey the client went on following the front 
screen of FTRs website. The terms were clearly displayed, and every client had to tick a box 
to confirm they had read and agreed to the terms before an application can be submitted.  
Mr B ticked to confirm he did agree to the terms, where it is fully explained that FTR would 
pursue a claim if PPI is identified. It said the terms form the binding agreement between FTR 
and the client, not the front page of its website. 
I dont dispute that FTRs terms and conditions allowed it to auto convert Mr Bs free PPI 
check into a claim. But the basis of Mr Bs complaint is that he was led to believe he was 
only agreeing to a free PPI check and he hadnt wanted FTR to pursue the claim on his 
behalf. 
I think the web page from January 2019 is more likely to have been what Mr B saw than the 
screenshots FTR has sent us. And FTR hasnt disputed that the first page from January 
2019 is the one that wouldve applied at the time Mr B signed up to its service. 
The first web page from January 2019 says: Isnt it Time You Checked For PPI? 100% Free 
PPI Check. The QUICKEST & EASIEST Online Checker  GUARANTEED. Check Now.
The screenshot FTR sent us shows similar wording but beneath this it says: There is no 
charge for the PPI check. If PPI is discovered terms and conditions apply. This wording 
doesnt appear on the January 2019 web page.
The website goes on to explain How it works. The screenshot FTR provided contains this 
wording:
*FREE PPI CHECK: Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our Fee of 24%, 
inclusive of VAT, will be payable on all successful Claim(s), as per the Terms of 
Engagement. Click here to view our terms and conditions.But the January 2019 wording is different. This says:
FREE PPI CHECK: If you think you may have taken out PPI or simply not sure, you can find 
out for FREE*. Well check PPI on EVERY credit card, loan & mortgage youve EVER had  
In most cases we do not require account numbers  Just the name of the bank will do!
I appreciate that Mr B would have had to confirm he agreed to FTRs terms and conditions at 
the end of his web journey. But I think the information on the front page of website was 
misleading and Im also persuaded by Mr Bs testimony that he believed he was only 
agreeing to a free PPI check. So, I dont think FTR has done enough to make it clear to Mr B 
that he was agreeing for FTR to submit PPI claims on his behalf which it would then charge 
him a fee for. And I dont think Mr B would have gone ahead with the free PPI check if this 
had been made clear. 
This meant Mr B lost the opportunity to pursue the PPI claim directly with the lender which 
would have allowed him to retain the full settlement. So, I dont think its fair for FTR to 
invoice Mr B for its success fee.
Im aware that Mr B has been going through a difficult time, supporting his mother who is in 
poor health. Hes told us that FTRs pursuit of his fee has added to his stress. So, I think our 
investigators recommendation that FTR pay Mr B £100 in recognition of the trouble and 
upset hes experienced is fair. 
I set out what I thought FTR should do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond with any further information theyd like me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses
Mr B confirmed hed received my provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
comments.
FTR said it didnt have any additional information to provide and would await my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new, I see no reason to change the findings Id 
reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
FTR should:
Waive all outstanding fees and any additional charges added to recover these.
Refund any fees Mr B has paid plus 8% simple interest calculated from the date they 
were paid to the date Mr B receives the refund.
Pay Mr B £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset its caused.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Quickly Finance Limited, 
trading as Fast Track Reclaim to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman