DRN-2218399
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about HSBC UK Bank Plc applied unfair charges to her credit card 
account and didnt treat her fairly when she entered into financial difficulties. She says her 
credit card was blocked but interest was still charged making it hard for her to reduce the 
outstanding balance
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss M entered into a credit card agreement with HSBC in May 2017 and in doing so 
agreed to its terms and conditions. These included making the required monthly 
payments. 
Having looked through the credit card statements provided from June 2017, I can see 
that the June 2017 statement showed Miss M had spent beyond the credit limit. She 
did then bring the account below the limit the following month but also her direct debt 
payment was returned unpaid, so a charge was applied. Miss M continued to 
experience issues with her payments over the following months and further charges 
were applied. As the charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions I do 
not find I can say HSBC applied the charges unfairly.
In August 2018, Miss Ms card was blocked. Given the situation on the account I do 
not find this was unreasonable. Miss M was clearly struggling to manage her money 
and I find that stopping any further credit was a reasonable step to take. 
I understand that Miss M thinks her interest should have been frozen at this point. 
When a customer is experiencing financial difficulties, banks are expected to treat 
them positively and sympathetically. The bank isnt required to freeze the interest on 
an account, although this may be considered. 
In this case HSBC has contacted Miss M providing information about free debt 
services and suggesting that if she is experiencing financial difficulties she contact its 
financial guidance team. I find that this shows it was treating her sympathetically. 
Miss M didnt contact the financial guidance team. Had this happened it would have 
been possible to discuss the options available to Miss M. 
I can see that HSBC maintained contact with Miss M However, without further 
contact I dont find that HSBC did anything wrong by continuing to charge interest.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman