DRN-4450683
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours 
Student Loans (HSL) has dealt with the deferment process for his student loans. 
What happened
HSL administers mortgage style student loans that Mr W had taken out via the Student 
Loans Company (SLC).
Mr W had deferred repayment of the loans several times, with the last period of deferment 
ending in March 2023.
In early 2023, SLC marked Mr Ws deferment application as incomplete. After HSL asked 
why, SLC said that as Mr W was both employed and self-employed, it needed to see three of 
Mr Ws most recent payslips. SLC said that it made a mistake in the previous year when it 
accepted Mr Ws deferment application based on self-employment evidence alone.
HSL concluded that SLCs decision to mark Mr Ws deferment application as incomplete was 
in line with the deferment guidelines. 
Mr W is unhappy that SLC wont assess his income based on the SA302 tax calculation, as 
it did last year. Mr W says that his income, as a dual employed individual, could only be 
assessed as one, meaning there is no need to assess his employed income over a three 
month period.
Mr W says that he includes his PAYE and self-employed income on his tax return, which 
HMRC adds together. Mr W says that previously, SLC accepted his SA302, so there is a 
precedent for this. 
Mr W told SLC that there is nothing on the payslip that he provided which refers to gross 
income. And that Mr Ws taxable pay, left him under the threshold for deferment.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Under the terms of HSLs purchase of student loans, SLC continues to manage the 
deferment process. The deferment form states that if someone is employed, they need to 
send payslips for three months. Mr Ws application has been marked as incomplete by SLC 
because he didnt send in three payslips. I havent seen anything that shows HSL was at 
fault for the fact that SLC would not process Mr Ws deferment application. 
I understand Mr Ws point that SLC previously accepted his SA302 to complete the 
deferment process. But as Ive said above, I dont think this is something which HSL had 
influence over. I also dont consider it fair to require HSL to override SLCs decision not to 
accept the SA302 without seeing payslips, just because SLC previously made a mistake and 
accepted the SA302.
Im satisfied that HSL took the steps I would have expected when it asked SLC for further 
details of the deferment process. I appreciate Mr W disagrees with the method that SLC will 
use to calculate his income. As he made a self-employed loss, Mr W thinks that this should 
be applied against his employed income, to arrive at his income charged to tax  in line with 
the way that HMRC would assess his income. However, as our investigator has explained  
it is not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to make decisions about the way that SLC 
carries out the deferment process. 
I should also say that as things stand, Mr W has not completed the deferment process 
because of the outstanding request for additional payslips. So, I dont think it is for me to 
speculate on what decision will be reached if Mr W does provide the payslips. If after 
providing the further information, Mr W remains unhappy with the deferment decision, I dont 
see why he could not raise a fresh complaint at that point. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr W but I dont consider HSL has treated him unfairly by agreeing 
with SLC that in order to process his deferment he needs to supply SLC with three payslips. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman