DRN-4101680
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the service she received from Great Lakes Insurance SE when she 
claimed on her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs F tripped and fell whilst on holiday. She had a complex fracture in her arm and needed 
urgent surgery. She was scheduled to have the surgery in a private hospital, but her insurer 
didnt authorise it in time. The surgery was cancelled, and Mrs F then tested positive for 
Covid-19. A few weeks later she was moved to a private hospital and had the surgery. Great 
Lakes then repatriated her to the UK. Mrs F complained about the service shed received.   
Great Lakes issued a final response letter and offered £200 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill. In summary, they said the delays in returning Mrs F to the UK were caused by her 
contracting Covid-19. But they acknowledged there was a lack of communication between 
the emergency assistance company and Mrs F. Unhappy with this response, Mrs F 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Fs complaint. She thought 
that had Great Lakes progressed the claim sooner she could have had the surgery and 
returned home as originally planned. However, due to the way in which the claim was 
handled she spent four weeks in hospital abroad on her own. She said this had caused 
Mrs F substantial stress and worry. She also thought that the communication wasnt to the 
level that Mrs F should have reasonably expected. So, she recommended Great Lakes pay 
Mrs F £1000 compensation. 
Great Lakes responded to say that given the incubation period of Covid-19 it would be 
reasonable to assume Mrs F already had Covid-19. So, even if theyd responded sooner to 
Mrs F, it was unlikely that the outcome would have been any different. The investigator 
responded to say shed considered this point and highlighting that Mrs F was having daily 
Covid-19 tests. So, her position remained unchanged. 
There was no further response from Great Lakes about the outcome of the complaint. So, 
the investigator asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mrs F said that she wanted 
to emphasise the impact the whole experience has had on her life, and the ongoing impact. 
That included the ongoing physical impact and the impact on her confidence. So, I need to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly.
Im upholding this complaint and directing Great Lakes to pay Mrs F a total of £1000 
compensation. I say that because: 
I dont think Great Lakes has adequately explained why it took two days for the case 
to be referred to their emergency assistance team. Given the nature of Mrs Fs injury, 
and that she was admitted as an inpatient, I think the initial response should have 
been quicker. 
The delay in starting the claims process meant that Mrs F couldnt commit to having 
the surgery as she wasnt sure if she was covered by her insurance or not. As she 
didnt have cover confirmed she was understandably reluctant to go ahead with 
private surgery which shed have to pay for in the event she wasnt covered. That 
situation could have been avoided if the claim had progressed more quickly in the 
early stages.   
Ive taken into account the information Great Lakes provided in response to the 
investigators opinion about the incubation period for Covid-19. Its possible that 
Mrs F had Covid-19 before the date she tested positive. But the evidence thats 
available says she first tested positive the day after the surgery should have taken 
place. So, I think its reasonable to conclude, based on the available evidence, that 
the surgery could have gone ahead as planned had the claim progressed more 
quickly. In any event, even if I accepted Great Lakes argument on this point, I still 
think there are other reasons to uphold the complaint and award compensation.  
Great Lakes has accepted the communication between the assistance company and 
Mrs F wasnt as good as it could have been. They also havent made any further 
comments or presented any additional evidence relating to the investigators findings 
on this point. I think better communication would have avoided unnecessary worry 
and distress. For example, in one of the first communications to Great Lakes Mrs F 
described herself as confused and upset. She also highlighted that she was 
struggling with the language barrier. Mrs F had to chase for updates and ask others 
to do so for her. Its clear from those communications that she was in a very difficult 
situation and the lack of clear and timely updates was causing her distress. 
I think Great Lakes could have communicated the plans for Mrs Fs transfer to the 
private facility and repatriation more clearly and in a timelier way. There were a 
number of issues. For example, I think Mrs F would have benefitted from a clearer 
action plan so that she understood what the next steps would be throughout her 
transfer to the private hospital and her repatriation. Mrs F also had to chase up the
 fit to fly documentation and didnt receive the level of assistance at the airport that 
she should have done. All of this added to her worry and distress at an already 
difficult time.  
Ive taken into account Mrs Fs comments about Great Lakes not covering her 
friends taxi expenses or additional pet care costs. But that isnt something that is 
covered by the policy under the emergency medical and repatriation expenses 
section. I considered the longer-term impact of this experience on Mrs F. Its clear from what 
shes said that its impacted her physical health and her confidence. I understand she 
is having ongoing treatment and that her injury still has an impact on her day to day 
life. I have a lot of empathy with Mrs Fs circumstances. This was a traumatic 
experience and the poor service from Great Lakes added to her distress and 
inconvenience. However, I think compensation of £1000 fairly reflects the impact on 
her, bearing in mind the overall circumstances. In reaching that conclusion I bear in 
mind that Ive not been provided with any medical evidence which confirms that 
Mrs Fs recovery was significantly and negatively impacted by the service she 
received from Great Lakes.  
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Great Lakes to put things right by paying Mrs F a 
total of £1000 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor customer service whilst 
she was unwell and distressed. 
If Great Lakes has already made payment of the £200 it offered Mrs F, then this amount can 
be deducted from the overall settlement.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman