DRN-3004341
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delayed transfer of his ISA from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset
Management Limited, referred to as the business or the transferor, to a third-party
business referred to as the transferee.
He says that hes suffered financial loss as a result of the delays caused by the business.
  
What happened
In mid-July 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint.
Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress and
whether its reasonable in the circumstances.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, Im
satisfied that the redress methodology is reasonable in the circumstances. However, I think
the business should calculate redress using the period between 24 March 2020  when I
think the cash transfer shouldve taken place, and 3 July 2020 when the cash was 
transferred, and pay Mr C £200 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience
caused.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Cs strength of
feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support this complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr C and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Looking at the chronology of events, it seems that in early February 2020, Mr C instructed
the transferee to transfer his holdings with the business. I understand that it was a partial
request, and that it was received on 12 February 2020.
It seems the request was then processed, and a valuation sent on 27 February 2020. I note
it took the business almost 11 working days to do this. On 2 March 2020, the value was
agreed by the transferee and a response sent the same day, but its not clear when the
response was received by the business.
On 20 March 2020, I note the business sold three of the seven holdings, in response to Mr
Cs request at the time, but didnt transfer the cash that I think shouldve taken around five
days. I note he then contacted the business on 27 March and 30 April 2020, because he was 
concerned that the money hadnt been transferred.
On 5 May 2020, Mr C says he spoke to the business again, but it failed to progress matters
despite undertaking to do so. Its still not clear why, soon after the sale, the funds werent
transferred over.
Im mindful that the business nevertheless accepts its error and says that it was a busy time
of year. The business also accepts that it couldve been more proactive in dealing with the
situation, and thats why it upheld the complaint and is offering compensation.
I note on 7 May 2020, Mr C confirmed that he wanted a full transfer and in due course the
business contacted the transferee about this. In a massage to the transferee the business
confirmed that it had only received a partial transfer out request, which I think was in
relation to the February 2020 request.
On 22 June 2020, the business sent a reminder of the remaining four stocks sold, upon
receipt of new acceptance from the transferee  the proceeds for which settled in due course
on 26 June 2020. I note that on 3 July 2020 the cash was eventually sent to the transferee.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the proposed
redress methodology to pay interest is unreasonable. I think the business quite rightly
accepts that it shouldve transferred the cash sooner, and taken a more proactive approach
to dealing with Mr C. But in the circumstances, I think it should pay Mr C £200 compensation
for the overall distress and inconvenience caused.
That notwithstanding, Im satisfied that the proposed redress methodology places Mr C close
to the position he wouldve been in but for the error. So, in the circumstances I think the
business should pay him the interest  at 8% simple  on the cash that she couldve had
access to sooner, but for the delay.
In other words, the interest between 25 March 2020 when the transfer ought to have taken
place, and 3 July 2020 when the transfer took place.
I appreciate what Mr C says about other financial loss. Im sure Mr C already knows, that the
value of his investment is dependent on the stock market. The impact of the Covid-19 global
pandemic on the financial market is not something that Cofunds could control or predict. So,
I cant blame it for not being able to obtain a better price when funds were sold. But I agree
that the business shouldve transferred the cash sooner.
Despite what Mr C now says about new investments, Im unable to safely say what he
wouldve done with the money. Ive seen no evidence of any instructions setting out what
should happen to the money. Its also not possible to prove any potential loss from failing to
open his new ISA when the markets were low. In other words, I simply cant award redress
on the basis of what he mightve done if hed received the money sooner.
Despite what Mr C now says about new investments, Im unable to safely say what he
wouldve done with the money. Ive seen no evidence of any instructions setting out what
should happen to the money. Its also not possible to prove any potential loss from failing to
open his new ISA when the markets were low. In other words, I simply cant award redress
on the basis of what he mightve done if hed received the money sooner.
Mr C now accepts that the guidance about ISA transfers allows for 30 days, not 21 days as
he originally thought, for transfer and this includes the cash in his ISA. So, in thecircumstances, Im satisfied that the redress offered reflects the business wrongdoing.
Mr C may not have any recollection of receiving the letter or email of 27 February 2020, but
that doesnt of itself mean the communication wasnt sent. It might be that he received it and
has forgotten about it, or its possible that there was an issue with the post/email. But if that
was the case, it wasnt of the business doing and I cant blame the business for the actions
of a third-party postal/email service.
I appreciate Mr C will be very unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator,
but I still havent given him what he wants.
I realise my decision isnt what Mr C wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
unable to give him what he wants.
Mr C responded and said that he was happy with the uphold but disappointed with the level 
of compensation. Nevertheless, as this matter had been going on for over a year, he would 
accept the provisional decision.  
The business also responded and sought clarification about why I had issued a provisional 
decision awarding higher redress and compensation based on different dates.  
It seemed to me that the business wasnt objecting to the decision as such but wanted a 
better understanding of my redress and why  according to the business  it wasnt given an 
opportunity to respond.
I explained that so far as redress was concerned, in the circumstances I felt that Mr C 
deserved an additional £50 compensation to better reflect the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. In other words, I didnt think what the business had offered in the 
circumstances was reasonable. 
Despite the business concerns, I explained that the whole point of referring a complaint to 
an ombudsman is that everything is considered with fresh eyes, and not by someone whose 
thoughts are already aligned with the investigator.
In relation to the interest payment, I explained that I was correcting the period in which I 
thought the 8% interest should be applied, because I didnt think that the business had 
applied the correct interest rate or the correct dates  namely 24 March 2020 (not 25 March 
2020 which Id erroneously mentioned in my provisional decision but was only a typo)  
when I think the cash transfer shouldve taken place  and 3 July 2020, when the cash was 
transferred. 
In the circumstances, given all the changes that I had made to the redress payment, I felt 
that a provisional decision was reasonable to allow both the business and Mr C an 
opportunity to respond to my decision. 
I note the business said: Another concern is that the Final Decision has already been 
communicated to the client before HLAM had the opportunity to review the decision and 
respond which was incorrect. 
I explained that only the provisional decision had been provided at this stage, to both Mr C 
and the business, and the business still had an opportunity to respond to my provisional 
decision with any further points it wanted me to consider. 
I again asked if the business had any further points to make in relation to my provisional 
decision and that I would be most grateful if it could provide them within the time allocated.Having considered my response the business said that it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that my redress methodology is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited must do the following:
Calculate and pay 8% simple interest on the £16,869.2 it held between 24 March 
2020 (when the funds shouldve been transferred) and 3 July 2020 when they were 
transferred.
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should calculate and pay redress to Mr C 
as set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman