DRN-3963456
The complaint
The Trust of Mr B complained that HSBC Life (UK) Ltd (HSBC) did not reinstate their life 
assurance policy after it lapsed because of non-payment of premiums. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr B took out a 25-year decreasing term life assurance policy, underwritten by HSBC, in 
November 2015. The policy was placed in trust, for the benefit of Mr Bs partner. The sum 
assured was £247,500, with a monthly premium of £23.63. Mr B also took out a critical 
illness policy at the same time, which is being dealt with by this Service as a separate 
complaint.  
The policy premium due at the end of September 2020 for the life assurance policy was not 
paid. The HSBC bank account, out of which the direct debit to pay the monthly premium was 
taken, had been closed and so the direct debit was cancelled. The last premium was paid on 
27 August 2020. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 30 September 2020 and said the direct debit had been cancelled 
and the September premium was outstanding. It told Mr B that if a second premium was 
missed then the policy would automatically lapse, and cover would cease.
HSBC again wrote to Mr B on 29 October 2020 and said two premiums were now 
outstanding. It said the policy had lapsed and no cover was being provided. HSBC said if it 
received the outstanding amount within seven days then the policy could be reinstated. It 
also said it would consider reinstating the policy for up to one year from the date of the first 
outstanding premium, subject to a satisfactory declaration of health being completed and 
outstanding premiums being paid. 
Mr B contacted HSBC several times in November 2020 and complained about the policy 
having lapsed and about being told payment for the outstanding premiums couldnt be made 
over the phone and had to be made by either direct debit or cheque. 
HSBC responded to the complaint by email in December 2020 and confirmed it could not 
take premium payments by phone. It reiterated what was said in the letter sent on 
29 October 2020 in relation to the steps needed to reinstate the policy. HSBC said the policy 
could be reinstated within 12 months from the time it lapsed.  
Mr B contacted HSBC in July 2021 to enquire about reinstating the policy. HSBC sent the 
necessary documentation at the end of July 2021, although Mr B said he didnt receive it.
HSBC told Mr B in late September 2021 that it would allow the policy to be reinstated subject 
to receiving the completed documents and premium arrears by 13 October 2021. It said after 
this date no further reinstatement requests would be considered. When HSBC didnt receive 
the completed reinstatement pack by the deadline, it wrote to Mr B in late October 2021 and 
said it would not be able to consider the request to reinstate the policy. 
Mr B again contacted HSBC in mid-November 2021. It was clear there were difficulties with 
communicating by post, so both parties agreed Mr B would visit his local HSBC branch to 
complete the paperwork. Following the visit, HSBC told Mr B it would write to him once it had 
assessed the request to reinstate the policy.  
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 8 December 2021. It told him the premium arrears for both policies  
totalling £1,680  would be deducted from his bank account on 15 December 2021. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 24 December 2021 and said the direct debit had been returned 
unpaid by the bank. It said the premium arrears for the life assurance policy were £354.45. 
HSBC wrote to Mr B again on 11 January 2022 and said that as the payment for the 
premium arrears couldnt be taken, the policy could not be reinstated. 
Mr B complained to HSBC and said he wasnt told that a decision had been made to 
reinstate the policy and take a payment for the outstanding premiums. He said he was told 
he would be notified well in advance of the payment being taken. At this point Mr B also 
complained about being discriminated against on the grounds of ethnicity and mental health 
issues. Mr B asked to be allowed to keep the policies or, if not, to have all premiums paid to 
date refunded. The Trust of Mr B, who is the eligible complainant here, brought their 
complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator liaised with HSBC and it was agreed that the Trust of Mr Bs complaint 
about the life assurance policy could be looked at in its entirety by this Service. But our 
Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said HSBC had treated Mr B fairly during the 
time he was trying to reinstate the policy and had informed him when it intended to try and 
take the total premium arrears from his bank account. 
The Trust of Mr B was unhappy with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a 
decision. 
I contacted HSBC and asked for clarification about the attempts made by it to take the 
premium arrears in December 2021 and clarification about whether it had considered 
offering Mr B a payment holiday, which it provided. I am now in a position to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that the Trust of Mr B thinks HSBC acted unfairly when it didnt 
reinstate Mr Bs life assurance policy, which had lapsed in October 2020 following non-
payment of premiums. The Trust of Mr B also complained that HSBC didnt give any notice 
before it tried to take the total amount of the premium arrears  £1,680, of which £354.45 
related to the life assurance policy  from Mr Bs bank account in December 2021. 
Its my understanding that the life assurance policy lapsed because the direct debits that had 
been set up to pay premiums were cancelled following the closure of Mr Bs HSBC current 
account. The complaint about the closure of the HSBC current account has been looked at 
separately by this Service. Our Service is also looking separately at the complaint Mr B 
raised about his critical illness policy. So my decision will only address the cancellation of the 
life assurance policy and HSBCs decision not to reinstate it. Ive first of all looked at whether HSBC acted fairly and in line with its own terms and 
conditions when it cancelled Mr Bs life assurance policy. Theres no dispute here about 
whether the premiums were paid  both parties agree they werent. The policy terms allow 
HSBC to let the policy lapse for non-payment of premiums. 
I would expect any insurer to let a consumer know if direct debits have been returned unpaid 
and so premiums had been missed. This gives a consumer the opportunity to prevent the 
policy from lapsing.  
I can see that HSBCs system notes indicate that a letter was sent to Mr B, using the correct 
address, in September 2020 informing him of the first missed premium and letting him know 
that the policy would lapse if a second premium payment was missed. The system notes 
show a second letter was sent in October 2020, once the second premium payment was 
missed. This letter also said the policy had lapsed and outlined the steps that needed to be 
taken by Mr B to have it reinstated. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly and in line with 
the policy terms when it stopped providing cover for Mr B following non-payment of 
premiums.   
HSBC and Mr B were in contact between July and December 2021 about reinstating the 
policy. At the end of December 2021, once it had tried unsuccessfully to take the full amount 
of premium arrears, HSBC decided it would not do anything else to try and reinstate the 
policy. So Ive looked at whether HSBC acted fairly in the way it dealt with Mr Bs 
reinstatement request.   
The terms of the policy say that if the policy has lapsed because of non-payment of 
premiums, then the policy holder may make a request, within 12 months of the due date of 
the first unpaid premium, for the policy to be reinstated. It also says HSBC is under no 
obligation to reinstate the policy, but if it does then all of the unpaid premiums due if the 
policy had not lapsed will be immediately payable together with the next premium due. 
So this term, which I think is clearly worded and reasonable, makes it clear that once a 
policy lapses HSBC doesnt have to reinstate it. Should it decide to consider reinstatement, 
then this is conditional on, amongst other things, premium arrears being paid in full.  
In this case, the date of the first unpaid premium was 28 September 2020 and this means 
Mr B made his request for reinstatement within the year allowed. 
I think its clear Mr B was keen to reinstate the policy, given the extent of his communication 
with HSBC. There were difficulties with paperwork being sent and received, so Mr B visited 
an HSBC branch in around December 2021 and completed the reinstatement paperwork. 
Mr B told this Service he had expected HSBC to give him sufficient notice before taking the 
premium arrears from his bank account. He doesnt think HSBC did this. I would certainly 
expect HSBC to have given Mr B proper notice, as by December 2021 the arrears for both 
policies amounted to a significant sum of money.
However, I can see that HSBC sent a letter to Mr B on 8 December 2021 letting him know it 
would be collecting an amount of £1,680 from his current account on or around 
15 December 2021. I realise that Mr B says he didnt receive this letter, but Im satisfied 
HSBC sent it. HSBC doesnt have any control over whether a letter sent to a consumer is 
delivered to them. For HSBC to be considered to have fulfilled its obligation to let Mr B know 
when the money was coming out, its enough that it can show it sent the letter. So Im 
satisfied HSBC gave Mr B notice of when the total premium arrears were due to be taken out 
of his bank account. HSBC also tried to take the payment out of Mr Bs account on a second occasion  a week 
after the first attempt  but this also failed. It then decided not to take any further steps to 
look to reinstate the policy and wrote to Mr B informing him of its decision. 
As I said, the policy terms state that reinstatement of the policy is conditional on the premium 
arrears being paid in full. So the policy terms allow HSBC to decline to reinstate the policy in 
the circumstances outlined above. Given that HSBC has acted in line with the terms, hasnt 
made any errors, and acted on Mr Bs initial request to look to have the policy reinstated, I 
dont think it acted unfairly when it decided to draw a line under this matter when it wasnt 
able to get full payment in December 2021 for the premium arrears. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr B, as its clear he wanted the policy reinstated. But I 
think HSBC acted fairly and within its own terms and conditions when it decided not to 
reinstate the policy. 
The Trust of Mr B said they thought HSBC should have put a repayment plan in place so 
that the premium arrears could be paid off over time rather than all at once. But its important 
to note that HSBC are under no obligation to reinstate a plan once it lapses, and that the 
relevant policy term says reinstatement is conditional on premium arrears being paid off in 
full. And while I appreciate why Mr B would have found a repayment plan helpful, HSBC 
arent obliged to take this step. For my part, I might ask HSBC to set up a repayment plan if I 
thought it had made an error that contributed to Mr B being in the difficult position he was in 
but, based on the information Ive been provided with, I dont think it has. 
The Trust of Mr B also thought HSBC should have given Mr B a payment holiday back in 
2020 when the first two premium payments were missed. Ive considered this, given that 
payment holidays for consumers were not unusual in 2020 because of the pandemic. I 
asked HSBC to clarify why this wasnt offered to him. 
HSBC told me that a payment holiday was considered internally after Mr B made a complaint 
in December 2020. It said that, because of the pandemic, consumers were generally offered 
a three month deferral option at that point in time. By the time HSBC was asked to consider 
this for Mr B, the September and October 2020 premiums had already been missed and the 
November 2020 premium was shortly due. HSBC said it was aware Mr B didnt have a bank 
account at that stage and there was no certainty he would open a bank account by the time 
premiums became payable again in December 2020. So it said it decided that the 
reinstatement process, which allowed Mr B 12 months, was the only option. 
From what I can see, HSBC made the decision not to offer a repayment plan based on 
Mr Bs circumstances at the time. It opted for a course of action that it thought would put him 
in the position where he had time to sort out opening a new bank account, and once this had 
been done Mr B would be in a position to request a reinstatement of the policy. I cant see 
that having a three month payment holiday to cover the missed premiums in September, 
October and November 2020 would have made a difference here. Without having a way to 
start paying the premiums again in December 2020, I think its more likely than not that Mr B 
would have found himself in the same position, albeit later, of having the policy lapse when 
further premiums were missed. So I dont think that HSBCs decision not to offer a payment 
holiday has placed Mr B at a disadvantage. 
I can see that the Trust of Mr B were concerned that HSBCs behaviour was discriminatory. 
Mr B said at one point that he felt HSBC made so many mistakes that they must be 
intentional, and he was concerned about being mocked by HSBC members of staff in 
relation to his mental health. I want to reassure the Trust of Mr B that Ive considered everything thats been said in 
relation to discrimination. However, this complaint was brought to this Service by a Trust, 
which is a legal entity but not an actual person. If I thought a business had behaved in a 
discriminatory way, I could only award compensation if the complainant was an actual 
person, and not a Trust.  
In any event, its the case that HSBC were willing to take Mr B through the process of trying 
to reinstate the policy. It was only when the premium arrears werent paid in December 
2021, that it decided the policy should be allowed to lapse. And, based on the evidence 
thats been provided to me, I cant see that any of the interactions between Mr B and HSBC 
members of staff could be considered discriminatory. I think HSBC has dealt with Mr Bs 
reinstatement request fairly and as it would for any other customer. 
The Trust of Mr B also complained about HSBC not accepting premium payments by phone 
in November 2020. HSBC said it only accepted payments at that stage by direct debit or 
cheque. But Mr B didnt have a bank account then, and he said the pandemic made it 
difficult for him to open one.
I appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr B, but as long as HSBC offered other 
reasonable ways to pay the premiums on the policy, then I wouldnt interfere with its decision 
not to accept payments over the phone.  While I know Mr B didnt have a bank account from 
which to arrange a direct debit or issue a cheque at the point in time the policy first lapsed, 
he was able to open one later and make a request for reinstatement, so he hasnt been 
placed at a disadvantage here. 
The Trust of Mr B also asked for a full refund of all premiums paid since the start of the 
policy if the policy couldnt be reinstated. But Im not asking HSBC to do that. This is 
because the Trust of Mr B had the benefit of the policy until it lapsed in October 2020  if 
Mr B had become unwell while the policy was still in force and his condition was covered by 
the policy, then he would have been able to make a claim and have it assessed by HSBC in 
the usual way.  
I know my decision will be disappointing, but I am not asking HSBC to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Trust of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman