DRN-2574690
The complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about a branded bicycle insurance policy underwritten by Hiscox 
Insurance Company Limited. She is unhappy that her claim for her stolen bike was declined 
and believes the policy is ambiguous in order to benefit Hiscox in the event of a claim. She 
doesnt think it has its clients best interests at heart.
What happened
Ms F took out her policy via a broker acting as a retail insurer over the internet. The policy 
started in September 2019 and provided cover for bicycles and accessories at home and 
away from home up to £1,100.
The key features document for the policy, which Ms F was given when she bought the 
policy, detailed that the policy provided cover for theft. However, for a claim to be paid when 
a bike was stolen from the home there were security requirements that needed to be met. 
These were detailed as:
the items are under your personal supervision;
the normal security protections in your home, hall of residence, lockable outbuildings, 
shed or carpark, holiday home, hotel or guest house, are in operation and the theft arises 
from forcible and violent entry; or the cycle is locked through the frame with an approved 
lock and secured in a cycle hanger or to an immoveable object.
The insurance policy defined home as the location where the bike was usually kept, 
meaning:
a. your private dwelling built of brick, stone or concrete and roofed with slates or tiles; or
b. a lockable outbuilding or garage built of brick, stone or concrete and roofed  which is 
within the boundaries of your private dwelling; or
c. a secured gated car park within the boundaries of your private swelling which is privately 
accessed by residents and their guests only; or
d. a lockable wooden or metal shed within the boundaries of your private dwelling which is 
privately accessed by residents and their guests only; or

i. any other specific location which has been referred to and agreed by us in writing.
The bikes owned by Ms F and her partner were stored overnight on a first-floor private 
balcony (which Ms F has said is between four and five metres high) at her home. In late 
2019 someone used items from outside the property to gain access to the balcony in the 
early morning.  Her bike was stolen.
She made a claim for the stolen bike, but Hiscox declined the claim. It said she hadnt 
complied with the policy terms for the bikes storage. 
Ms F didnt accept Hiscoxs decision as she was at home at the time of the theft, so it 
couldnt be argued that the bike wasnt under her personal supervision. In addition, she said 
the relevant question was whether the balcony should be considered part of a private 
dwelling and normal security operations were in place, thereby making the removal of the 
bike the result of forceable entry. 
Hiscox responded to Ms Fs complaint. It said it didnt consider the bike was under her 
supervision at the time of the theft, as this required her to have sight of the bike and have the 
opportunity to deter or prevent the theft from occurring. It said that while the balcony was 
part of the building, it was external to the home and not protected by the normal security 
protections. As the balcony was an external, uncovered structure and the bike was not 
secured, Hiscox didnt think its decision was wrong.
Ms F remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. She said Hiscox had 
introduced the concept of supervision involving the policyholder putting themselves in harms 
way to deter a theft in progress  which she considered unreasonable - and that a balcony is 
not part of a home. Ms F said that if Hiscox want the interpretation of the word home to 
mean something other than an ordinary person would expect it to, it should have spelt that 
out in the policy. She understood her home to be any part of the building that was accessible 
exclusively to her, including a balcony or terrace. She didnt consider leaving the bike 
unlocked on the balcony was the same as leaving it unlocked on the street and she argued 
that normal security protections were in place. 
Ms F also said that she had made the business through which shed bought the policy, 
aware of how she stored her bike at home. As this was the case, she considers that storage 
arrangement was deemed acceptable and cover provided for that arrangement.  She also 
provided confirmation that she had enquired with her landlord about installing a hook on the 
balcony to lock bikes to, but had been told she couldnt do so as it provided a lockable bike 
room for storage.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Ms F didnt accept the investigators conclusions as she didnt think Hiscoxs decision was 
fair. She asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
This complaint is about the decision by Hiscox to decline the claim. Ms Fs concerns about 
the broker that sold her the policy will be dealt with under a separate complaint and I wont 
comment on it in this decision. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms Fs concerns about Hiscoxs explanation of an item being supervised and her 
conclusion that it considers a policyholder should put themselves in harms way to prevent a 
theft. That is not the case. However, an item would need to be in the sight of a policyholder 
in order to be consider supervised. The simple fact of an item being observed often acts as a 
deterrent to thieves. When the thief gained access to the balcony, Ms F was sleeping in 
another part of the property and so didnt have sight of the bike; I can only conclude the bike 
wasnt being supervised at the time.  
Ms F is unhappy, as she considers Hiscox has deemed her balcony not to be part of her 
home. I dont think it has said that. Rather it has said that the balcony is an external structure 
that is not protected by the normal security protections associated with her home. 
Protections being walls, locked doors and windows, which would need to be breached (forcibly entered) for an item to be stolen. This is the same way a private garden would be 
viewed. Whilst I accept the bike was stored on Ms Fs property, it was not subject to any 
security protections at the time it was stolen and as such, should have been locked to an 
immovable object under the policy terms and conditions. As it was not, I cant find that 
Hiscox was wrong when it declined the claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 
24 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman