DRN-2721865
The complaint
Miss M complained that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) have been pursuing 
a debt which she disputes she owes. Miss M says the letters and phone calls she has 
received from One Call have affected her health. Miss M told us she had paid several 
thousand pounds over the years and feels she has been treated unfairly
What happened
One Call cancelled Miss Ms car insurance in 2015 as she didnt pay her premiums following 
a claim. It said she owed £941.81, which included broker and cancellation fees. Miss M 
complained to us in 2019 and One Call said it would remove its broker fees  leaving an 
outstanding balance of £381.94.
Miss M was previously in dispute with One Call about having to pay the cost of the claim. 
This matter was taken to court and is not the subject of this complaint. The court ordered 
Miss M should pay £4,560.00 of the £14,000.00 claim One Call wanted her to pay. This 
amount was only in relation to the claim and associated costs and didnt include the 
cancellation charges of the policy. Miss M paid the £4,560.00 ordered by the court in full.
I can also see One Call continued to contact Miss M in relation to her outstanding debt while 
our investigator was looking into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint and she disagreed with this, requesting the 
case be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator and I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain my 
reasons.
I can see Miss M is correct when she says she has paid thousands of pounds to One Call, 
but this was in relation to the excess not the cancellation fees. 
I can also see One Call have agreed to remove the broker fees from Miss Ms outstanding 
balance. I think this is fair.
However I think it is fair Miss M pays the remaining cancellation fees. This is because 
Miss Ms policy states where the service excess hasnt been paid within 14 days, we will 
cancel all service and recover the monies by using a debt recovery agent.
Miss M had cover with One Call before her policy was cancelled and her insurers have the 
right to charge for the time she had coverage (between May 2014 and February 2015) as 
outlined in her policy. One Call has confirmed that the outstanding balance theyre 
requesting is for these premiums.
I can see that this has been going on for a very long time (the initial incident which triggered 
these disputes happened in 2014) and Miss M has told us it has impacted her health. I 
recognise this may not be outcome Miss M would have hoped for and I am sorry for that, but 
I think it is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Miss Ms complaint is not 
upheld
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman