DRN-2684348
The complaint
Miss K complains about charges she was asked to pay at the end of her agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited.  
What happened
In June 2016 Miss K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA. The agreement was due to end on 12 December 2019.
In December 2019 Miss K advised PSA that she intended to return the car at the end of the 
agreement. There were delays in arranging collection of the car due to it not having a current 
MOT. 
The car was collected in or around February 2020. In April 2020 Miss K received a letter 
from PSA asking her to pay charges comprising auction fees, repossession fees and a 
shortfall under the finance agreement.
Miss K contacted PSA about the charges, but her complaint wasnt investigated. PSA has 
given permission for this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said she thought most of the charges 
were fair but that the repossession charge wasnt fair because there wasnt any evidence to 
show that Miss K had been unwilling to hand the car back and therefore it was questionable 
whether it was necessary to have passed the account to a repossession agent. The 
investigator said PSA should refund the repossession fee and pay compensation for trouble 
and upset.
PSA didnt agree. It said the reasons for the repossession fee was because the car had no 
MOT, meaning it needed to be collected by low loader. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some aspects to Miss Ks complaint which Im unable to look into because shes 
brought her complaint to this service outside of the six-month time limit which runs from the 
date of the final response. So, Im unbale to comment on the charges which PSA has asked 
Miss K to pay in respect of the MOT. 
I am, however, able to look at Miss Ks complaint about the charges shes been asked to pay 
following the car being sold at auction.
Ive looked at the charges which PSA has asked Miss K to pay. These are:
£97.24 final payment for GAP insurance
£15.00 administration fee for termination
£102.00 auction charges
£464.40 repossession agents fee
£171.24 shortfall under the finance agreement
The agreement ended on 12 December 2019. At that date, Miss K was obliged, under the 
terms of the agreement, to either pay the balloon payment or hand the car back.
Theres a dispute between Miss K and PSA as to why the car wasnt handed back when it 
should have been. Miss K says the collection agents told her it didnt have any collection 
slots available until the New Year. PSA says that its collection agents contacted Miss K in 
December 2019 and explained that the car had to have a current MOT before it could be 
collected. PSA says that Miss K told them she wasnt happy about paying for a MOT and 
that it wasnt completed until the end of January 2020, by which time a default notice had 
been issued on 14 January 2020.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss K was in breach of the agreement because 
she hadnt returned the car or paid the balloon payment by 12 December 2019.
I can see that following the issue of the default notice, PSA instructed agents on 24 February 
2020 to repossess the car. I can see that when the agents contacted Miss K on 24 February 
2020, she asked them to collect the car. The car was collected on 26 February 2020.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement and the voluntary surrender which 
Miss K signed when the car was collected. Ive also looked at the account history. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the GAP insurance, the administration fee, the auction 
house charges and the shortfall under the finance agreement have been charged fairly, and 
in line with the terms and conditions. 
In relation to the repossession agents fees, I dont think PSA has acted fairly in charging 
these. Ill explain why.
Theres nothing to suggest that Miss K was unwilling to return the car. Im aware that Miss K 
and PSA were in contact between 12 December 2019 (the date when the agreement ended) 
and 14 January 2020 (the date when the default notice was issued) because Miss K had 
complained about the requirement for a MOT and the costs of obtaining this. Based on what 
Ive seen, I think PSA was aware that Miss K was having the car MOTd in order that she 
could arrange for it to be collected by the collection agents, as she had tried to do in 
December 2019. So, I think it was unfair in the circumstances for PSA to instruct 
repossession agents. PSA said it was necessary to do this because the car didnt have a 
MOT. However, the car had passed its MOT on 31 January 2020.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the collection agents took any steps to contact 
Miss K to arrange collection of the car once it had passed its MOT at the end of January 
2020. Three weeks passed between the car passing its MOT and PSA instructing 
repossession agents, but theres nothing to suggest that PSA or its collection agents tried to 
contact Miss K during this time to arrange collection of the car. And theres no evidence to 
suggest that Miss K wasnt willing for the car to be collected during this time.
Taking everything into account, I dont think its fair that Miss K has been asked to pay 
repossession agents fees.
Putting things rightIve explained why I dont think the repossession charges are fair. To put things right, I think 
PSA should remove these. 
Its clear that Miss K has been caused a degree of worry by the charges shes been asked to 
pay. The repossession charges are the largest element of these charges. Im of the view that 
PA should pay compensation to Miss K for the trouble and upset caused. This compensation 
can be deducted directly from the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited must:
Refund the repossession fees
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset. This sum can be deducted from the 
outstanding balance.
Remove the default from Miss Ks credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman