DRN-4154224
The complaint
Mr F complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt handled his building 
warranty claim fairly. 
What happened
Mr F bought a new-build apartment thats covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. 
The policy started in November 2018. Two sections of the policy are relevant to Mr Fs 
complaint. Those are section 2 and section 4. 
Mr Fs claim is for remedial work to the common parts of the apartment block, relating to fire 
safety issues. For claims relating to the common parts:
- The section 2 cover period runs for three years from the first completion date of an 
apartment in the block. 
- The cover period for sections 3, 4, and 5 starts after the section 2 cover period has 
ended, and it runs until ten years has passed from the first completion date of an 
apartment in the block. 
For Mr Fs apartment block, for common parts claims, the section 2 period ended in 
November 2021. 
The original builder is responsible for putting right a failure to meet the NHBC requirements 
during construction, where that failure is reported to the builder during the section 2 period.
However, if theres a dispute between the homeowner and the builder about issues raised 
during the section 2 period, NHBC offers a resolution service. If NHBC issues a resolution 
report requiring the builder to act, but the builder fails to comply, NHBC becomes 
responsible for those required actions. 
Section 4 covers the builders non-compliance with certain building regulations that applied 
at the time of construction, providing the issue is causing an immediate danger and its 
reported during the section 4 cover period. 
Mr F contacted NHBC in October 2020, after the managing agent put the leaseholders on 
notice that remedial work may be required subject to the results of an external wall survey. 
NHBC advised him to ask the managing agent to put the original builder on notice, and he 
was given a claim reference. Mr F says he asked the managing agent to act accordingly.
Surveys were undertaken in 2022, and Mr F returned to NHBC in November 2022. NHBC 
concluded that, based on the date of the surveys, there wasnt evidence the defects had 
been identified and reported to the builder before November 2021. So, NHBC explained 
section 2 wouldnt apply, and the claim would need to be considered under section 4.
Mr F complained about NHBCs position. He considers section 2 offers more protection than 
section 4, as theres no requirement for immediate damager  and he considers the builder 
was put on notice before November 2021 due to the relationship between the builder and 
the managing agent. Mr F also doesnt consider NHBC gave reasonable guidance about 
how to make a section 2 claim, when he first made contact in October 2020.
NHBC issued a final response to Mr Fs complaint on 31 January 2023. NHBC reiterated that 
for section 2 to apply, it needed evidence the defects were reported to the builder within the 
section 2 period. NHBC said the claim was currently being assessed under section 4, but it 
was still making enquiries with the managing agent to check whether the defects had been 
reported to the builder within the section 2 period.
Mr F contacted our service in February 2023. In March 2023, NHBC confirmed to Mr F it had 
completed its enquiries with the managing agent and its position remained the same, i.e., 
there was no evidence the defects had been reported to the builder within the section 2 
period.
One of our investigators has reviewed Mr Fs complaint. He didnt think we could consider 
NHBCs decision not to offer its resolution service under section 2. He also didnt think 
NHBC had unreasonably delayed its consideration of the claim under section 4. 
Because Mr F was unhappy with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can, and cant, consider. 
In my decision, I explained:
- We cant consider NHBCs decision not to offer its resolution service under section 2, 
or the guidance it gave in October 2020.
- We can consider NHBCs handling of the claim under section 4, up to the date of its 
latest final response (31 January 2023).
Ill now set out my findings about the points we can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F contacted NHBC in November 2022 with the surveys. NHBC then proceeded to make 
enquiries about the surveys, and about when the builder was first notified of the defects in 
relation to a potential section 2 claim. Ive not seen anything that leads me to conclude 
NHBC unreasonably delayed its consideration of the claim under section 4, between 
November 2022 and 31 January 2023. But rather, NHBC was gathering necessary 
information during this period.
NHBC confirmed in its final response it was currently assessing the claim under section 4. If 
Mr F is unhappy with the progress of the section 4 claim since 31 January 2023, or if hes 
unhappy with NHBCs eventual claim decision under section 4, he needs to make a new 
complaint to NHBC about those matters. My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman