DRN-3790404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about the mortgage they hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
They are unhappy that after the mortgage offer was issued, Barclays decided it should have 
done a physical valuation of the property they were buying, which caused delays in the 
purchase and almost caused them to lose the property.
Mr and Mrs M have asked to be compensated for having to pay an additional months rent 
because of the delay in moving and the stress they suffered because of the situation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied for their mortgage via a mortgage broker at the end of June 2021. It 
was on a repayment basis for £627,000 over a term of 27 years. The mortgage had a 
five-year fixed interest rate product attached to it. The application stated that a physical 
valuation was not needed.
The application was accepted, and a mortgage offer was issued to Mr and Mrs M on 14 July 
2021.  A condition of the offer was that Mrs M needed to receive legal advice, due to her 
being a party to the mortgage, but not being a joint owner of the property  that being in 
Mr Ms name only. The document confirming legal advice had been taken was received by 
Barclays on 27 July 2021, but there was an issue with it as the address of the advising 
solicitor was different from the one the form was addressed to. An email was sent to 
Mr and Mrs Ms broker explaining the problem with the legal advice form on 30 July 2021.
In addition, it was confirmed by Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors on 2 August 2021 that it was still 
awaiting another document from Mrs M  the occupier consent form.
On 13 August 2021 Barclays received a letter from Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors regarding the 
right of access to the property due to it being located on a private road. The letter confirmed 
that an indemnity policy was being arranged to provide protection in the event of any 
problems. However, Barclays referred the matter to the valuers it used and asked 
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors for details of the estate agent. The response to the enquiry wasnt 
initially recorded, which delayed the valuation being commissioned.
 
Barclays has confirmed that it should not have requested a physical valuation as an 
indemnity policy was being put in place. 
The valuation was completed, and a new mortgage offer was issued on 5 September 2021. 
On 8 September 2021 Barclays contacted Mr and Mrs Ms broker to chase the outstanding 
legal advice form. Barclays also received a letter from Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors that same 
day asking it to confirm that the mortgage could go ahead with the indemnity policy in place.
A legal advice form was sent to Barclays in response to the solicitors request. However, it 
was a copy of the form that had previously been provided. Barclays reverted to the broker on 
13 September 2021. An amended form was received the same day, and as the addresses 
matched, Barclays accepted the form. A revised offer was issued to Mr and Mrs M and their 
solicitors the same day, along with an email to their solicitors confirming Barclays was happy 
to proceed. It required a certificate of title and an occupancy form signed by Mrs M, as it had 
previously. 
The mortgage completed at the end of September 2021.
Mr and Mrs M complained about Barclays actions and the delays that had been caused in 
the progression of the mortgage. 
Barclays responded to the complaint in its letter of 16 September 2021. It apologised for 
having requested the estate agents details several times, despite having them, and the 
delays this caused, which resulted in worry and frustration for Mr and Mrs M. It offered them 
£200 compensation for the poor service. 
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with Barclays response and referred their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that the issue with the 
valuation had delayed the mortgage progressing by a month. However, he didnt consider 
that Mr and Mrs M had lost out by having to pay another months rent, as they would have 
been paying money out on the mortgage for that month anyway, and the mortgage would 
have been significantly more than the rent paid.  He also explained that we would only award 
compensation for the added stress and upset Barclays mistake caused Mr and Mrs M. 
Having reviewed the matter, he considered the compensation payment Barclays had offered 
wasnt enough. He recommended that it be increased to £300.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators conclusion. They said they could understand 
the investigators conclusion about them having to pay out no matter what, but they 
highlighted that if they had been paying into the mortgage, they would have benefitted from 
the capital reduction element of the payment. They also highlighted that the cost of Mr Ms 
time hadnt been taken into account and they didnt think that an increase of £100 from 
Barclays offer was reasonable or fair.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation.
The investigator explained his rationale for the amount of compensation hed recommended. 
He confirmed that, having considered Mr and Mrs Ms further comments, he wasnt 
persuaded to change his recommendation. Mr and Mrs M remained of the opinion that the 
amount recommended by our investigator didnt fairly compensate them, but told our 
investigator that they would accept the compensation in order to bring the complaint to an 
end. However, they subsequently changed their minds and asked that the complaint be 
escalated to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
Barclays has confirmed that the physical valuation shouldnt have been requested and that it 
didnt process the estate agents details within that process properly. As such, I dont need to 
determine whether there was a mistake made, but only to determine the effect that mistake 
had on the progress of the mortgage.
The valuation process error took place between 13 August and 5 September 2021. That 
period could be seen as a delay. However, I dont consider that it did actually delay the 
mortgage application. Prior to Barclays deciding that it needed a valuation, it had highlighted 
a problem with the legal advice form, which meant it was not acceptable. That was explained on 30 July 2021, but a corrected version of the form was not provided until 13 September 
2021, over a week after the post-valuation offer had been issued. 
Mrs Ms signed occupier consent form was also outstanding at the time the valuation 
process started, as confirmed by their solicitors. This form again doesnt appear to have 
been provided until after the post-valuation offer was issued. 
Without these documents the mortgage could not have completed. So I am not persuaded 
the mistakes made by Barclays about the valuation delayed the mortgage process or cause 
Mr and Mrs M a financial loss. As such, much of the stress and worry they suffered because 
they thought they might lose the property they were buying was not as a result of Barclays 
error, although the error would have added to it. Barclays offered Mr and Mrs M £200 
compensation for that error and I consider that it was an appropriate amount in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision. They reiterated that they didnt consider 
that Barclays offer of £200 was fair or reasonable, given the distress and inconvenience they 
had been placed under. They said that they had needed to put in significant time and effort 
to get Barclays to issue the updated offer, which then allowed them to complete on the 
property purchase. They also reiterated that they were under significant pressure from the 
sellers and their agent, and they feared that they would lose the property. Mr and Mrs M 
consider that given the circumstances, the award should be closer to £750, based on their 
review of our compensation guidelines. 
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that it received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment in my conclusions and why they dont think 
that the compensation amount is adequate. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, while they focussed on the error Barclays made, and the delay they perceived this 
caused, in reality, it didnt cause a delay. The mortgage could not have completed without 
the outstanding documentation. The provision of that documentation wasnt affected by the 
valuation issue, but it was not provided until sometime after the valuation issue was 
resolved.  So the valuation issue didnt actually delay the completion of the mortgage. As 
such, I remain satisfied that the amount of compensation offered by Barclays is appropriate.
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman