DRN-4273851
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs decision to suspend his 
online banking access.
What happened
Mr C was making an online payment to a family member. The payment was stopped for 
further checks and Mr C was asked to contact the bank. He did so but was unhappy with the 
security questions that were being asked and didnt want to provide some of the information. 
Halifax then blocked Mr Cs payment and because he had not answered their questions 
satisfactorily, they also blocked Mr Cs access to online banking and said hed need to 
attend a branch with identification to have the block removed. Mr C complained saying he 
couldnt do so as hes the sole carer for his wife, who is housebound and cant be left alone. 
Halifax responded to the complaint to say they were sorry for the inconvenience, but they 
were satisfied theyd followed the correct process. Unhappy with this response, Mr C 
referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Cs concerns but said, in summary, he thought Halifax had 
followed the correct process. 
Mr C didnt agree, he felt his circumstances meant that it wasnt fair or reasonable for Halifax 
to have left him without online banking access for the several months since the transaction 
had been attempted. Following further enquiries, Halifax agreed to reinstate Mr Cs online 
banking access without him needing to go to a branch. 
As Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators view, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision. Ive set out my findings again below and they form part of this decision. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Theres no dispute that the payment Mr C was trying to make was blocked by Halifaxs fraud 
prevention measures. All banks have fraud prevention measures in place. These are 
designed to protect customers and the bank. Its for financial businesses to decide how their 
fraud prevention measures operate and which transactions will be subject to further checks. 
And the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account set out when Halifax could refuse to make a 
payment or stop access to his accounts. 
Mr C contacted Halifax when his payment was stopped, and Ive listened to this call. Mr C 
answered some of the initial security questions, but then became concerned and wouldnt 
answer any further questions. Mr C was worried about answering these questions because 
Halifax had called him (he had requested a call back earlier in the day). I see Mr Cs point, 
but the call wasnt unexpected, and Halifax did suggest Mr C call them back using the 
number on the back of his debit card if he was concerned. Mr C said he didnt want to do 
that. Halifax have provided evidence of their security process and Im satisfied the agent was 
asking Mr C questions in line with that process- so I dont think they made a mistake by 
asking these questions. 
Because Mr C didnt want to answer the questions, the agent explained his online banking 
access would be blocked and hed need to attend a branch with identification to have the 
block removed. 
Sadly, fraudulent transactions and scams are very common. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Halifax to want to check that the payment being attempted was genuinely 
being made by Mr C and not as part of a scam. Scams often involve people being asked to 
transfer large sums of money. Its also not unusual for customers to be told by the scammers 
not to answer questions asked by the bank  as part of the scam itself. So I dont think 
Halifax were being unfair or unreasonable in requiring Mr C to answer some additional 
security questions or then blocking his online account access when he wouldnt answer 
them. 
However, Mr C told Halifax in this call and in a later call with the complaint handler that he 
would be unable to attend the branch because hes the sole carer for his wife who is 
housebound and cannot be left alone. Mr C also has his own health issues which wouldve 
made it difficult for him to visit a branch  which Halifax were also made aware of. Despite 
Mr C telling Halifax this twice, they offered him no alternative to attending the branch to get 
the online banking unblocked. 
The FCAs guidance for firms on vulnerable customers requires firms to act with a level of 
care appropriate given the individual characteristics of the customer themselves. Halifax 
have told us when Mr C first explained his circumstances they made further enquiries with 
the fraud team, but given their concerns felt the only way to proceed was to insist Mr C 
attended the branch with identification. So I dont think Halifax properly engaged with what 
Mr C was telling them about his circumstances and that, because of those circumstances, he 
was a vulnerable customer. 
Halifax has, following our Investigators view, decided to unblock Mr Cs online banking 
access  without Mr C needing to attend a branch. When we asked them why they decided 
to do so, they said they did it as an exception. However, this didnt really explain why they 
were prepared to do this now, having refused to do anything further when Mr C first 
complained. Based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think Halifax made proper attempts to 
help Mr C find another way of getting the account unblocked after hed explained his 
particular circumstances when the online banking access was first blocked and, given what 
he'd told them about his circumstances, I think they shouldve done. Because of this, Mr Cs 
been without online banking access for about five months. 
Mr Cs got several accounts with Halifax including a current account and a credit card. Ive 
reviewed Mr Cs current account statements during the period the online banking was 
blocked, it seems he was able to use it normally despite not being able to view the account 
online and also not receiving statements (since they were paperless). But he has told us he 
found it difficult to keep track of his finances and was worried during this time. 
Mr Cs also unhappy Halifax didnt start sending paper statements because his online 
banking access was blocked. Normally, online banking access is suspended on a short-term 
basis. So I wouldnt necessarily expect Halifax to have started sending paper statements 
automatically and I cant see Mr C made a request for them to do so. 
Overall, I dont think Halifax did enough to help Mr C get online banking access again after their decision to block it and had they done so, I think its likely Mr C wouldve got online 
banking access reinstated much sooner. This has caused Mr C distress and inconvenience 
and I think Halifax should pay Mr C £200 in recognition of this. 
Responses to my provisional findings
Both Mr C and Halifax said they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have said they accept my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
To put things right, I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr C £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman