DRN-2973025
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage which, until 2018, Mr B and Mrs B held 
with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB), a business that is part of the Lloyds Banking 
Group. Theyre unhappy with a number of matters relating to how TMB ran their mortgage, 
including that it refused a request from them in 2014 to switch the mortgage from 
interest-only to capital repayment. Mr B and Mrs B say they were turned down again more 
recently; they also dont think TMB accounted properly for some lump sum reductions they 
made in 2017.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision issued on 27 July 2021, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information 
here that might result in Mr B and Mrs B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Also, any figures I may have referenced are rounded.
Mr B and Mrs B took the mortgage out in 2005; the term was for twelve years, so the 
capital was due for repayment in 2017. In 2014 Mr B and Mrs B asked for it to 
switched to capital repayment. TMB refused; Mr B and Mrs B complained about this 
at the time, and TMB issued a final response rejecting the complaint.
During 2016 and 2017, Mr B and Mrs B and TMB maintained a dialogue about how 
the underlying debt would be repaid. TMB said it would consider a term extension 
after Mr B and Mrs B had made a lump sum reduction from an investment that was 
due to mature. The lump sum was paid (in two amounts) in June 2017, and soon 
after, TMB agreed a one-year extension. 
In early 2018, the mortgage was repaid in full, when Mr B and Mrs B re-mortgaged to 
a different lender that is also part of the Lloyds Banking Group. Ill refer to that lender 
as B. 
In 2019, Mr B and Mrs B complained that since 2014, TMB hadnt allowed them to 
switch to capital repayment. They also said the lump sums paid in 2017 hadnt come 
off their mortgage balance. When the case was referred to us, a fellow ombudsman 
issued a jurisdiction decision setting out, with reasons, which parts of the complaint 
we could (and couldnt) look into. 
She decided that the refusal to switch to capital repayment in 2014 was time-barred 
under our rules, because Mr B and Mrs B had referred the issue to us more than six 
months after TMBs final response. That meant our remit was restricted to what TMB 
had done (or not) since 2014.
One of our investigators then looked into the case; she wasnt persuaded TMB had 
treated Mr B and Mrs B unfairly in its dealings with them, or that it had refused a 
switch to capital repayment unjustifiably. She was also satisfied, from looking at the 
account statement for 2017, that TMB had credited their account correctly with the 
lump sums.
Mr B and Mrs B have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In 
doing so, they asked if the reviewing ombudsman would speak to them directly. The 
investigator explained that would only happen if the ombudsman judged it necessary 
for him or her to do that. Ive looked at everything both parties have said provided; 
Im satisfied I have all I need to decide the complaint fairly without speaking directly 
to either party.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator; 
however, there are some contextual issues that I need to clarify, as they have a 
bearing on the scope of our investigation. I set out my provisional findings below so 
that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
First of all, Ive looked at the decision my fellow ombudsman made on the events of 
2014 being time-barred under our rules. I agree with the decision she reached and 
have confined my review to more recent events.
This decision is not about what B did (or didnt do) with the new mortgage in and after 
2018; where I refer to the mortgage with B, its to provide context to what TMB did (or 
didnt do) after 2014 up to the redemption of the mortgage thats the subject of this 
complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ill deal first of all with the accounting question. Ive seen a statement of Mr B and 
Mrs Bs mortgage account for 2017. It clearly shows the two lump sums being 
credited in June 2017, and the account balance being reduced correspondingly. Im 
neither an accountant nor an auditor, but Mr B and Mrs Bs account looks as Id 
expect it to after the transactions had been posted.
If Mr B and Mrs B have a real and substantive belief that TMB didnt credit their 
account correctly, it is for them to arrange for the accounts to be audited by a suitably 
qualified and independent party. The evidence of the audit could then be used as the 
basis for a new complaint, but not as the basis for this one. I make the latter point 
because TMB would need to be presented with the finished audit first, and be given 
the opportunity to consider and respond to it. Mr B and Mrs B would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found 
that were to their detriment, we would then expect TMB to reimburse any reasonable 
cost of the audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be 
necessary. But as things stand, theres no evidence that gives me any reason to 
think that TMB didnt account correctly for the transactions Mr B and Mrs B have 
disputed.
That leaves the question of whether TMB refused a request from Mr B and Mrs B 
(other than the one in 2014) to convert their mortgage to capital repayment; and if it 
did, whether it did so unfairly. Lenders are subject to regulation by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA); the rules of regulation are set out in the Mortgage and 
Home Finance Conduct of Business rules, known as MCOB. 
MCOB has provisions for people wishing to extend their interest-only mortgage  or 
convert it to capital repayment. TMB did extend Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage in 2017, 
by one year; but it wasnt prepared to convert it to capital repayment. 
As a general rule, MCOB requires lenders that are being asked to make changes to a 
mortgage to conduct an affordability assessment on the proposed change. A lender 
doesnt have to do that if the proposed change is unlikely to make a material change 
to affordability. 
Switching from interest-only to capital repayment does constitute a material change 
in affordability, as it increases the amount borrowers have to pay each month. Thats 
especially so in a case like Mr B and Mrs Bs where the capital needs to be repaid 
over a short period of time. That means TMB was required to assess the affordability 
of switching Mr B and Mrs Bs mortgage to capital repayment, albeit with one further 
proviso. 
Even where a proposed change to a mortgage involves a material change in 
affordability, a separate provision in MCOB still allows a lender to disregard an 
affordability assessment, or dispense with it altogether, if, in the lenders judgement, 
it would be in the borrowers best interests for the change to the mortgage (in this, 
case, a switch to capital repayment) to go ahead.
Switching to capital repayment, would have required Mr B and Mrs B to pay 
substantially more each month that they had said they had available to pay. It seems 
TMB didnt consider that to be in Mr B and Mrs Bs best interests. As the ombudsman 
reviewing their complaint, it now falls to me to decide if that was a fair judgement call 
on TMBs part. Having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, Im not persuaded TMB made an unfair judgement. 
The mortgage balance was a little over £180,000; switching to capital repayment 
wasnt merely tight on affordability, but completely unsustainable on Mr B and 
Mrs Bs income, unless it was accompanied by a further term extension that would 
require the mortgage having to run for more years again than it had already been 
running. Even that assumes Mr B and Mrs B would continue to earn the income they 
declared in 2017 for the duration of such an extended term. Based on what they have 
said about their health, there has to be some real doubt about the likelihood of that 
being feasible.
I said earlier that this decision isnt about the mortgage taken out with B to repay 
TMB in 2018. But I also said I might refer to it for context, and I do that now. The 
mortgage Mr B and Mrs B took out in 2018 in order to repay TMB was also interest-
only; it was also for one year only initially. B agreed in 2019 to extend it by a further three years, but not to switch it to capital repayment, again for reasons of 
affordability. 
Every lender has its own lending policy and appetite for risk. Every lender will have 
its own interpretation of what MCOB requires it to do and will make its own 
judgement on what is in a persons best interests. Mr B and Mrs B can complain 
separately about how B has operated their mortgage since taking it out to repay 
TMB. As far the case against TMB is concerned, Im not persuaded TMB made an 
unfair decision that failed take account of Mr B and Mrs Bs best interests.
The parties were given until 10 August 2021 to make any further comments. TMB hasnt said 
anything further. In conversation with our investigator, Mrs B explained that for personal 
reasons (which I wont reproduce here to preserve Mr B and Mrs Bs privacy) this complaint 
was no longer their top priority. The investigator asked Mrs B if she was happy for me to 
proceed with my final decision on the basis of what she and Mr B had said previously. Mrs B 
confirmed that she was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
there arent any grounds for me to depart from my provisional decision. All I can add is how 
sorry I am to learn of Mr B and Mrs Bs current situation, and I wish them well. If shes not 
already done so, Id urge Mrs B to make sure the current lender B know what is happening, 
so it can take their current circumstances into account in its dealings with them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman