DRN-4454645
Complaint
Miss W has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable as she had serious gambling issues and if L2G had carried out 
proportionate checks it would have seen this.
Background
L2G provided Miss W with a loan for £1,500.00 in August 2019. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and the total amount to be repaid of £6,170.94, which included interest, fees and 
charges of £4,670.94, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £342.83. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ws complaint and he thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss W unfairly. So he didnt think that Miss Ws complaint should 
be upheld. Miss W disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 7 November 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 7 November 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Miss Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I kept this in mind while provisionally deciding Miss Ws complaint.
L2 G had carried out credit checks. And I was mindful that the credit check showed Miss W 
had had previous difficulties with credit  in the form of a number of accounts with missed 
payments and in arrangements to pay. The credit check also showed that Miss W had 
recently taken out a loan for £7,250.00, was over the limit on one of her revolving credit 
accounts and close to the limit on at least one other account. 
Furthermore, the monthly payment was taking up a significant chunk of the disposable 
income L2G had arrived at for Miss W too. And this was without actually verifying what   
Miss W had said about her income and expenditure. I did appreciate that there might have 
been a degree of cross checking using some online tools but, in my view, this wasnt the 
same as verification.
I thought that further checks would have extended into finding out more about Miss Ws 
expenditure. And I thought that if L2G had found out more about Miss Ws expenditure (it 
was my understanding that it had seen Miss Ws bank statements as part of its review of her 
complaint), it would have seen that Miss W was already in a difficult financial position. 
In these circumstances, I also thought that L2G would have found out the reason Miss W 
was in the position that she was and realised that it was unlikely that Miss W would be able 
to repay this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences or financial difficulty. 
This left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss W. And as L2G provided 
Miss W with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss W ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with in the first place. So I concluded by setting out my intention to find that Miss W 
lost out because of what L2G did wrong and confirm that I would be directing it to put things 
right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss W confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything 
further to me to consider.
L2G also confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and also said that it didnt have 
anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for the responses provided and Im pleased to see that they agree with my 
findings and conclusions.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Ws complaint in my provisional 
decision of 7 November 2023. As the parties have accepted these conclusions and havent 
provided anything further to consider, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
So I remain satisfied that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld and L2G should put things 
right.
Fair compensation  what I think L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss W
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances for L2G to put things right for Miss W by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss W paid as a result of her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss W to the date of settlementremoving all adverse information recorded about this loan from Miss Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 7 November 2023, 
Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman