DRN-4474924
The complaint
Dr R, on behalf of the R Trust, complains about the lack of information about corporate 
actions received from Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited regarding 
the Trusts investments.
What happened
In 2020 the R Trust opened a general investment account with Bestinvest, a trading name of 
Evelyn Partners. In 2021 Dr R raised concerns about not receiving information about certain 
corporate actions and voting rights for the holdings in the Trusts account. She mentioned 
three specific holdings and the related corporate actions:
The merger of the Schroder UK Equity fund into the Schroder UK Alpha Plus fund
Glaxo Smith Kline undertaking a share split and demerging from Haleon
Scottish Investment Trust merger with JP Morgan Global Growth and Income
Dr R is primarily unhappy with this because it means the trustees werent aware of their right 
to vote at the Annual General Meetings (AGM) held by the companies in which theyve 
invested, nor were they in an informed position to decide whether to sell their holdings prior 
to the activities taking place. In particular, shes said this is contrary to SRD I and II, and 
MIFID II. In reply, Evelyn Partners explained that they werent required by regulation to 
inform the trustees of these mandatory corporate actions, or proactively provide them with 
the AGM proxy voting forms. As she remained unhappy with the reply, Dr R, along with the 
other trustees of the R Trust, brought the complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that the custodian, a 
separate company appointed by Bestinvest, was responsible for informing investors of the 
corporate actions. In reply, Evelyn Partners explained that this wasnt correct  the custodian 
will notify them of the action, and neither them nor the custodian have a regulatory duty to 
notify investors, unless theres a choice to be made by the investor. Dr R also disagreed with 
the outcome as she strongly feels Bestinvest should do more to make her aware of the 
issues affecting the Trusts holdings. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on the case, and set out my findings as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, I consider that when deciding to hold their investment via a platform that a 
customer would reasonably expect to receive the same information that theyd receive if they 
held their investments directly. Holding investments via a platform and nominee, as the Trust 
does here, is generally done for convenience  all investments are in the same place. If a 
firm decides that they will provide a different service, by not passing on all information 
received from the fund managers or registrars, that is at the firms discretion. However, Id 
expect them to set out clearly what service their customer can expect from them. This is 
usually done via the terms and conditions. I can see that the terms, at point 14.4, say:
If there is a corporate action affecting the investments held in your Bestinvest Online 
Investment Service Account, we will make reasonable effort to contact you, usually by email, 
to inform you that you should log into your Bestinvest Online Investment Service Account to 
obtain the information issued by the relevant registrar or exchange
The terms governing the custodian say, at point 3.1:
The Custodian will provide the following services informing the Customer or the 
Investment Service Provider of corporate actions and other events affecting Client Assets. 
In practice, the custodian, as the entity named on the investment register, will be given the 
information by the registrar and pass this to Bestinvest. It would then be Bestinvests 
responsibility under section 14.4 referred to above, to pass this to investors. Bestinvest has 
explained that they only inform investors of corporate actions that require them to make a 
choice.
However, Im satisfied that isnt what their terms say they will do  they state that Bestinvest 
will inform customers of any actions affecting the investment. The mandatory corporate 
actions that Dr R has pointed out have involved a change in some way to the investments 
the Trust holds. So, Im satisfied that under the terms, they were actions that Bestinvest 
ought to have notified the trustees of.
Again, if Bestinvest were to choose not to send notification of all actions that affect the 
investments that would be up to them  provided they communicate this in a clear way. They 
havent done this here, because the terms dont differentiate between types of corporate 
action. This means customers are led to expect a certain level of information which in 
practice isnt provided. Im satisfied that Bestinvest has agreed to do something, that hasnt 
then been done and so Im upholding this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the position the Trust would likely be in now, if Bestinvest had been 
providing the information in line with their own terms. Dr R has said that if the trustees had 
been made aware of the various mergers prior to them taking place, they would have 
considered selling the investments. Based on the evidence I have so far, Im not convinced I 
have enough to say its more likely than not that any would have been sold  or when they 
would have been sold and so what price the Trust would have received. I dont believe any 
were sold subsequent to the trustees discovering what had happened  which leads me to 
believe that the trustees were happy to remain invested following the various mandatory 
corporate actions in question.
Nor am I convinced that the trusts vote in an either the annual or extraordinary general 
meetings would have made a material difference to the outcome of any voting that took 
place, bearing in mind the size of their holdings.
So, Im satisfied theres been no financial loss to the Trust due to the lack of notification. I do 
however think the trustees have been caused distress and inconvenience by finding 
information out after the fact and not being kept informed. Its clear that the trustees take 
their duties seriously and like to ensure they are running the trust properly  and the lack of 
information has impaired their ability to do that.
Taking into account the number of times Bestinvest hasnt provided the information, and the 
fact his has happened over a number of years, I think an award of £300 would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Replies to my provisional decisionEvelyn Partners replied and said they accepted the provisional decision. Dr R replied and 
said she and the other trustees agreed with the decision for the most part, but, in summary, 
wanted my comments on the following:
What will happen in future  will the process that Bestinvest has in place regarding 
mandatory corporate actions change or remain the same?
Theyve identified a potential issue with the way dividends and rights issues are 
reported in the capital gains reports provided by Bestinvest, which has meant theyve 
had to submit the tax return for 2022-23 based on potentially flawed information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding any future mandatory corporate actions, in issuing this decision, unfortunately I 
cant provide a guarantee that there will be no problems going forward. If something else 
does go wrong, the trustees would be entitled to complain about it. 
With regards to Dr Rs points about the capital gains reports, these are new complaint points 
that dont directly relate to the notification of mandatory corporate actions and so I will not be 
commenting on them in this decision.   
Overall, the points Dr R raised didnt relate to my findings on what Bestinvest ought to have 
done regarding the three corporate actions that were the subject of the complaint that I 
reviewed. As such I see no reason to depart from those findings as set out above, and I 
make them final. Im satisfied that a payment of £300 would be fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience that has been caused to the trustees here.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and Evelyn Partners Investment Management 
Services Limited should pay £300 to the trustees of the R Trust. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr R and the other trustees to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman