DRN-1722640
 
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim she made 
on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Bs daughter, Miss B, is covered by Ms Bs travel insurance policy. While abroad in July 
2019, Miss Bs passport and other belongings were stolen. She was due to fly home two 
days later. Ms B called the airline to try and rearrange the flight, but this wasnt possible. So 
Ms B had to book new flights home for Miss B.
Ms B called UKI to check whether Miss Bs new flight would be covered by the policy. UKI 
explained there wasnt any cover for the costs of the new flights. But it told Ms B Section N  
Emergency passport/driving licence costs would apply. 
This section of the policy offers up to £500 per person if a passport was lost or stolen 
abroad, for additional accommodation and travel expenses while a policyholder gets new 
travel documentation  together with the cost of the documents. It also suggested Ms B put 
in a claim for the loss of Miss Bs bags and the contents of it.
Because Ms B wasnt happy with UKIs response, it registered a complaint on her behalf. But 
it maintained its decision and reiterated that Ms B could put in a claim under Section N and 
claim for Miss Bs lost items. 
Ms B remained unhappy with UKIs decision. She asked us to look into her complaint. She 
felt UKI had misinterpreted the policy terms and that it should deal with the claim either 
under the cancellation section, or the missed departure/abandonment/delay section. She felt 
it was irrational and illogical for Section N not to include return travel costs, when a lost 
passport would mean a policyholder couldnt travel. 
Ms B also felt UKI had handled her complaint poorly. She said that as UKI had treated her 
discussion with it as a complaint, itd denied her the chance to write a letter of complaint. Her 
priority at that point had been getting her daughter home safely. She wanted UKI to review 
its complaint handling policy.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think there was 
any cover under the policy for the cost of return flights in Miss Bs situation. She said the 
cancellation cover only applied to the outward leg of the journey itself. And she didnt think 
the claim was covered by the delay/abandonment or missed departure sections of the policy 
either. 
The investigator also explained to Ms B that our role isnt to tell insurers how they should 
handle complaints or improve their practices. But she explained that the regulators rules 
require a financial business to treat any expression of dissatisfaction as a complaint. So she 
thought UKI had responded to Ms Bs concerns appropriately.
Ms B disagreed. In summary, she maintained that the Cover for your journey part of the 
policy (including cancellation cover) should apply, as it doesnt restrict cover to the whole 
journey. She felt no insurer would leave a policyholder stranded outside the UK and that was 
supported by the policy terms. 
Thered been a change in the policy terms after the claim had been made to restrict 
abandonment cover to the outward leg of the trip  this indicated that previously, both legs 
wouldve been covered. She considered the investigator had placed an interpretation on the 
policy definition of journey that wasnt there. Shed checked the policy before Miss B 
travelled and felt itd covered the foreseeable loss of documents. And she felt UKIs 
complaint handling was contrary to best practice and had disadvantaged her.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has treated Ms B fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms B that while Ive summarised her detailed submissions, Ive 
carefully considered all shes said and sent us. I havent commented on each point shes 
made though. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The policy terms
Its clear Ms B feels strongly about this complaint. I can understand how worrying it mustve 
been when Miss Bs passport and things were stolen, and she wasnt able to make her pre-
booked flight. I sympathise with her position. But in making my decision, I need to decide 
whether UKI has acted in line with its policy terms and applied them reasonably.
Ms B believes the cancellation section of the policy is the applicable one and that UKI should 
deal with the claim under this heading. So Ive first considered what this section covers. The 
policy says:
What you are covered for
We will cover you up to £5000 per insured person for your:
a) Unused deposits;
b) Accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
c) Unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges;
That you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your journey for 
one of the following reasons.
The policy lists the insured events the policy covers. One of these is the theft of a passport 
within seven days of a policyholders planned departure, if a replacement cant be got in 
time. So I can appreciate why Ms B feels this section might apply to her daughters situation.
But I also need to bear in mind what UKI means by a journey and what it intends this 
section of the policy to cover. The policy defines a journey as: a journey that begins and 
ends at your home address during the period of insurance. 
In Miss Bs case, shed started her journey from her home address when she departed on 
her trip. She didnt need to cancel any of her pre-paid costs before she travelled. Shed 
travelled as planned and the theft of her passport meant shed actually needed to extend her 
journey, rather than cancel it. I dont think a trip can be cancelled once a policyholders 
already departed on their journey.  That eventuality would be considered under the 
curtailment section of the policy  if a policyholder needs to return home early.So while Miss Bs return flight had to be re-scheduled and new flights had to be bought, I 
dont think this can be seen as the cancellation of her journey. It enabled the continuation of 
it and for Miss B to able to get home.  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct UKI 
to pay Ms Bs claim under the cancellation section of the policy. I should also point out that 
even if I did think Ms Bs claim should be met under this section of the policy, it would only 
have covered the cancellation costs of Miss Bs original flights. Not the costs of the new 
ones.
Ms B also considers UKI should consider the claim under section B  Delay and 
Abandonment or Section C  Missed Departure. Ive thought about this. Travel delay cover 
only applies if the flight, boat, train or coach is delayed for more than four hours. Similarly, 
abandonment cover only applies following a period of delay to a flight or other method of 
transport. Miss Bs flight itself wasnt delayed, so neither section would apply to her situation.
Missed departure cover lists the insured events it covers. This applies if a policyholder 
arrives at their departure point too late to board their pre-booked transport because of:
a) An accident or breakdown of the vehicle a policyholders travelling in to get to their 
departure point.
b) Heavy traffic delays
c) Delay to the scheduled public transport taking a policyholder to their departure point.
Miss B didnt miss her departure because of any of the reasons UKI covers. So it wouldnt be 
fair for me to tell UKI to pay the cost of the new flights under this heading.
Having reviewed the policy, Im satisfied that the only section which does cover loss of 
passport is Section N. This covers: Up to £500 per insured person if your driving licence or 
passport is lost abroad for additional accommodation and travel expenses whilst you obtain 
necessary documentation to re-enter the UK and the cost of the temporary documentation.
I appreciate this section of the policy doesnt cover the cost of return flights following the loss 
of a passport. Most if not all insurance policies similarly limit loss of passport cover though. I 
understand the cost of the new flights were significantly higher than the policy limit and it 
must be frustrating to learn theyre simply not covered by the policy terms. But Im satisfied 
no other section of the policy covers Ms Bs specific circumstances. Im also satisfied that 
the policy does provide cover for a policyholder to return home in some circumstances  
under curtailment cover. But again  this wouldnt apply here. Thats because curtailment 
cover only applies to early return from a trip.
UKI let Ms B know she could make a claim under section N and also for Miss Bs baggage in 
its final response letter, subject to her meeting the policy terms and conditions. If Ms B hasnt 
yet made such a claim, its open for her to get in touch with UKI to do so. If she isnt happy 
with its claims decision or any settlement it offers, shell need to make a new complaint to 
UKI before we can potentially help with it.
Did UKI appropriately respond to Ms Bs concerns?
As our investigator explained, were not a regulator. We wont generally tell an insurer how it 
should run its business or how it should improve its practices. We look at individual 
complaints and if a financial business has caused a consumer to lose out. In this case 
though, it seems that Ms B wasnt happy when she learned about the extent of policy cover. 
I think it was reasonable for UKI to treat this as an expression of dissatisfaction and follow 
the regulators rules.While Ms B didnt make a written complaint at that point, UKIs final response addressed the 
main issues she raised with us. And it didnt prevent her from bringing a complaint to us well 
within the deadline UKI gave in that letter.
So Im satisfied UKI handled Ms Bs concerns fairly.
Overall, I dont think UKI did anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman