DRN-3616394
The complaint
Miss R complains that 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Miss R was given a guarantor loan by 1Plus1 in September 2017. She borrowed £4,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 36 months. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
1Plus1 gathered some information from Miss R before it agreed to lend. It asked Miss R 
about her income and expenditure. It verified Miss Rs income by using an online tool. It 
carried out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. Those checks 
suggested Miss R comfortably had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan 
repayments. 
Miss R was agreeing to make monthly repayments for a period of 3 years. So, I think it is 
right that 1Plus1 wanted to gather, and independently check, some fairly detailed information 
about Miss Rs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks 
it did were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think 1Plus1s checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what 1Plus1 gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that 1Plus1 conducted. I dont think 1Plus1 had too much 
that ought to have been of concern from what was on the search. I can see that on the whole 
her active credit was being well managed and there were no defaults or court judgements 
recorded against her.
Miss R told 1Plus1 during a phone call about her living expenses including rent. It then used 
the credit search to see what she was committed to spending on existing credit. It then took 
payments for 2 loans away from its calculations as Miss R told it she was going to pay these 
off and consolidate her debt. There is some confusion here about what Miss R was going to 
consolidate. She mentioned to 1Plus1 during the call that she wanted to settle the 2 loans 
but the capital from this loan from 1Plus1 didnt quite cover paying these off. But I think if she 
wasnt able to pay all of them off, she still had enough disposable income to afford the 
repayments for them and the repayment for this loan.
I think when I consider how much Miss Rs verified monthly income was, and how much 
1Plus1 had assessed her to have in disposable income, I think the additional loan 
repayments here were easily affordable for her.
I appreciate that Miss Rs financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks 1Plus1 performed were proportionate and 
didnt suggest that Miss R was facing very little current problems in managing her finances. I 
think 1Plus1 was also entitled to rely on what Miss R said about her finances as well as what 
it found out. And that information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the 
repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think 1Plus1 was wrong to give the loan to Miss 
R.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 1Plus1 responded and said it has no further comments. Miss 
Rs representatives responded to say it had received the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add, so I dont see any reason to depart from my 
findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Miss Rs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman