DRN-3420174
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined some of his payments and he was left 
waiting for a significant period of time when he called them. 
What happened
Mr C attempted to make payments but these were declined by Lloyds Bank. So, Mr C 
contacted them and they explained the payments had been flagged for possible fraudulent 
activity. Lloyds Bank attempted to verify Mr C over the phone but this wasnt successful, so 
they referred Mr C to a branch to be verified. Mr C visited the branch and the block was 
lifted. Mr C then attempted another payment later that day for £2,698, followed by two further 
payments. These payments were again blocked for fraud checks. In addition to this, further 
payments of £1,349 were blocked. Mr C then called Lloyds Bank to complain and to find out 
what was happening as he believed the block had been lifted. As part of his complaint Mr C 
explained that he wanted Lloyds Bank to remove the fraud checking system from his 
account. Lloyds Bank explained this wasnt possible but referred him to their Fraud Team to 
ensure there were no remaining fraud checks on his account. Mr C says that he had been on 
hold for 1 hour 30 minutes to get through to Lloyds Bank.
Lloyds Bank responded and explained the original payments attempted by Mr C were 
flagged to be potentially fraudulent. So, as they couldnt verify Mr C over the phone, they 
invited him to attend a branch. They said the block was lifted but further payments were 
again flagged to be potentially fraudulent. They said every transaction is reviewed and 
anything deemed to be suspicious will be flagged. Lloyds Bank said, they cant guarantee 
once a payment has been verified that this wont flag again in the future. Lloyds Bank said 
the other payments for £1,349 were declined as they exceeded the permitted transaction 
limit for wallet pay. Lloyds Bank accepted there had been an error when Mr C called them 
and had to wait a long time to speak with an agent. Lloyds Bank apologised and offered £30 
compensation.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought Lloyds Banks offer of £30 was fair. 
So, he said he wouldnt be asking Lloyds Bank to take any further steps. Mr C disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds Banks offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand Mr C will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision
Lloyds Bank say they have systems in place which flag any potentially suspicious 
transactions  and these systems are there to protect their customers. The payments by    
Mr C are for significant amounts, so I dont think them being flagged for a review is 
unreasonable or uncommon when considering how banks apply their security processes. I 
understand that it can be inconvenient if a transaction is held up pending checks and 
authentication. But I dont find that Lloyds Bank did anything wrong in declining the 
payments. Its in all our interests that security checks are enforced to reduce the likelihood of 
banks and their customers becoming victims of fraud. 
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account. Under a section headed, 
When can we stop you making payments?, it says We can stop or suspend your ability to 
make payments using any device or security details if we reasonably consider it necessary 
because ofsecurity orsuspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of a device or your 
security details Taking this all into account, while I do understand why the declined 
payments frustrated Mr C, I cant say Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly. Their terms and 
conditions allow them to stop payments their systems flag as potentially suspicious so 
theyve acted in line with the agreement they have with Mr C as a service provider for his 
banking. 
There are then further payments which were declined but these were on the basis they 
exceeded the permitted transaction limit for wallet pay. Under a section headed When can 
we refuse to act on an instruction?, the terms and conditions say Lloyds Bank can refuse to 
make a payment if it is for more than the maximum amount they set. So, given that the 
payments exceeded the limit, Lloyds Bank have acted in line with the terms and conditions 
by declining these payments. 
So, while I dont think it was unreasonable for the payments to be declined, Ive looked at the 
service given to Mr C when he called Lloyds Bank. The key facts about this part of the 
complaint arent in dispute. Lloyds Bank have admitted they got things wrong as Mr C was 
left waiting for longer than a customer should expect to speak with an agent. The only issue I 
have to decide is whether Lloyds Banks offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. While 
I note Lloyds Bank say they were experiencing high volumes of calls which led to longer call 
wait times, I think their offer to compensate Mr C £30 for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr C feels the fraud checks are causing him inconvenience and he wants 
Lloyds Bank to remove these from his account. Lloyds Bank say their priority is to protect 
their customers accounts so they cant remove this feature from Mr Cs account. I certainly 
dont underestimate how frustrating this has been for Mr C but, this service doesnt have 
power to require a business to change its processes. Or to direct what checks it should 
require when authenticating a payment. Lloyds Bank say the fraud checks are there to 
protect customers so I cant say theyre acting unreasonably in refusing to remove this 
feature from Mr Cs account. Mr C says he doesnt have the same issues with another 
service provider. I acknowledge this but different banking service providers will have their 
own fraud systems. And, just because another service provider may not flag a particular 
payment as potentially suspicious, it doesnt mean Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly.  
I can see Mr C has raised further issues which have occurred since his complaint to Lloyds 
Bank. My decision has looked at the issues which occurred when Mr C attempted payments 
between 19 to 24 September and when he called Lloyds Bank. These are the issues which 
have been addressed by Lloyds Bank in their complaint response. Mr C will need to raise 
any additional complaints with Lloyds Bank before our service can look at them.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £30 compensation to Mr C to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr C £30, if they havent done so 
already.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman