DRN-2961707
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) wouldnt agree to extend the overdraft 
facility on his current account and that they have subsequently removed that facility. 
Mr C is also unhappy that BOS didnt provide reasonable assistance to him with regard his 
overdrawn balance, that BOS havent communicated with him in-line with his stated 
communication preferences, and that they havent adhered to several regulatory codes.
What happened
In September 2018, BOS agreed to increase the overdraft on Mr Cs account from £6,500 to 
£10,000, on the condition that Mr C repay the additional £3,500 by November 2018. Mr C 
couldnt repay the additional borrowing by that date, so BOS extended the repayment time to 
February 2019, and then again to May 2019 when Mr C continued to be unable to make the 
necessary repayment.
In May 2019, with Mr C remaining unable to repay the additional borrowing, BOS removed 
the overdraft facility from Mr Cs account and transferred the account balance to its 
recoveries and collections department. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they felt that they had provided Mr C with help and 
forbearance in extending the overdraft at his requests, and in reimbursing various fees to Mr 
Cs account to help him better manage his financial situation. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, and he felt that BOS hadnt communicated with 
him in line with his stated preferences and that they hadnt adhered to regulatory codes. So, 
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that BOS had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in how theyd managed his overdraft or regarding the 
assistance that theyd provided to Mr C, including the reimbursement of fees on Mr Cs 
account. Our investigator also noted that there was no record of Mr C providing 
communication preferences to BOS. Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service regarding this complaint, Mr C has provided several 
detailed submissions. Id like to thank Mr C for these submissions, and I hope that he doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint  inline with this 
services role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
This means that if Mr C notes that I havent addressed a specific point that hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr C and BOS  but rather that I have 
considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address that point directly to arrive 
at what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Its also notable that, in his submissions to this service, Mr C has referred to several 
regulatory codes and feels that BOS havent adhered to these codes. In response, I feel its 
important to reiterate to Mr C that this service isnt a regulatory body, and therefore it isnt 
within the remit of this service to assess whether BOS have or havent adhered to the 
regulatory codes that Mr C mentions. These aspects of Mr Cs complaint would be better 
suited to the relevant regulatory bodies, and as such I will not refer to them again.
Furthermore, during Mr Cs correspondence with this service its evident that Mr C has 
referred to several aspects of his complaint which have either been addressed in previous 
complaints brought to this service or which havent been raised with BOS prior to Mr C 
referring this complaint to us. 
This service cant consider aspects of a complaint that have been previously investigated by 
this service and on which formal decisions have already been issued. This is because once 
a formal decision has been issued by this service, that marks the end of what this service 
can do in relation to the complaint points addressed in that formal decision. And, while Im 
aware that Mr C doesnt agree with the content of the decisions that have been issued on 
various aspects of his wider complaint with BOS, his disagreement doesnt override the fact 
that these aspects of his complaint are no longer points which this service can consider.
Similarly, this service also cant consider aspects of a complaint that the business being 
complained about havent had the chance to investigate themselves and respond to formally 
beforehand. This means that any complaint points raised to this service that havent 
previously been raised as complaint points to the business  and addressed and formally 
responded to by that business  fall outside the remit of what this service can consider.
In this instance, there are numerous complaint points raised by Mr C that fall into the two 
categories mentioned above. Indeed, its notable that Mr C has expended considerable 
energy providing information to this service about aspects of his complaint that cant be 
considered by this service as part of this complaint. 
As such, Id strongly encourage Mr C to make a detailed timeline of his entire grievance with 
BOS so that the aspects of his grievance that have already been considered by this service 
 and which therefore cant be re-considered by this service  can be understood.
Additionally, such a timeline would also illustrate which aspects of Mr Cs complaint havent 
yet been referred to BOS  as would be required before this service could consider them. 
Such a detailed timeline would also make it much easier for this service to effectively review 
any ongoing grievances that Mr C might continue to have.
Regarding this review, its notable that there have been prolonged discussions between our 
investigator and Mr C regarding what aspects of his complaint will be addressed in this 
investigation, and I see no value in repeating these lengthy discussions here. Instead, I will confirm that the aspects of Mr Cs complaint under consideration here are 
those relating to how BOS managed Mr Cs request for additional overdraft borrowing and 
the how BOS managed Mr Cs overdraft facility at those times, including whether BOS 
provided Mr C with reasonable help and forbearance. Also, this complaint will consider 
whether BOS communicated with Mr C in a manner contrary to his stated communication 
preferences. 
All other aspects of Mr Cs complaint are considered as either being those which have been 
addressed by this service in prior complaints or as those which havent bee raised previously 
with BOS such that theyve had an opportunity to formally respond  all of which lie outside 
the remit of what this service can consider, as explained above. 
However, I will also confirm that if it is the case that there are complaint points raised by Mr 
C which havent been addressed in this response and which dont fall into either of the two 
aforementioned categories, then these complaint points will be considered as remaining 
unaddressed by this service such that they arent prejudiced by this review
Request for overdraft extension and BOSs management of overdraft facility
Mr C is unhappy that BOS wouldnt continue to extend his overdraft facility and feels that 
BOS didnt provide appropriate help or forbearance to him during the time that he needed 
the extended overdraft.
I can appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about this issue, but it must be noted that BOS were 
under no obligation to provide the extended overdraft facility that Mr C wanted here  or 
indeed provide any overdraft facility at all. Indeed, the terms and conditions of the account 
state clearly that:
Overdrafts are always repayable on demand. This means that we can ask you to 
repay all or part of your overdraft at any time.  We can reduce your overdraft limit 
at any time.
Its within the remit of this service to decide against a business where a strict application of 
terms and conditions has led to an unfair outcome. But, having considered all the information 
available to me, I dont feel that an unfair outcome has resulted in this instance. 
One reason I say this is because it was agreed at the time that the overdraft was first 
extended that the additional borrowed amount would be repaid within two months of that 
extension. But Mr C didnt repay the additional borrowed amount within that timeframe, and 
BOS extended the additional overdraft for a further six months  when they were under no 
obligation to do so - to provide Mr C the opportunity to repay the required amount. As such, I 
find it very difficult to conclude that BOS treated Mr C unfairly in how they allowed such an 
ongoing overdraft extension.
Mr C has also stated that BOS didnt provide him with appropriate help or forbearance. 
However, given that BOS provided Mr C with an additional six months to repay the additional 
borrowed amount, its difficult to reach the same conclusion as Mr C in relation to this point. 
Additionally, its also evident that BOS reimbursed fees to Mr Cs account totalling £230. 
As such, Im satisfied that BOS did provide Mr C with forbearance and help to a degree that 
would be expected by this service, and I can confirm that, given that Mr C remained unable 
to meet the repayment terms agreed at the time of the overdraft extension, it wouldnt be 
expected by this service that such forbearance measures would continue indefinitely.All of which means that Im satisfied that BOS didnt treat Mr C unfairly or unreasonably in 
regard to how they declined to continue providing an overdraft extension to Mr C or in regard 
to the help and forbearance the provided Mr C during that time, and it follows that I wont be 
upholding this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Communication preferences
Mr C has also stated that he is unhappy that BOS issued correspondence to him that wasnt 
in accordance with his communication preferences. However, I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr C expressed his communication preferences to BOS or that these preferences were 
updated by Mr C on his BOS account.
In his correspondence with our investigator, Mr C advised that hed provide confirming 
evidence that he had asked BOS to amend his communication preferences. But Mr C hasnt 
subsequently provided such evidence, and as such I dont feel that I can fairly censure BOS 
for issuing correspondence to Mr C in the manner that they did, and it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Cs complaint either.
Finally, in their response to Mr Cs complaint, BOS acknowledged that theyd taken longer 
than they would have liked to have responded to Mr C on some occasions, and they made a 
payment of £75 to Mr C to compensate him for this. Matters of compensation can be 
subjective, but the £75 that BOS have already paid here does feel fair to me, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances. 
As such, I wont be instructing BOS to take any further action in relation to this matter.
Summary
In consideration of all that Ive explained above, I dont feel that I can fairly conclude that 
BOS have acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr C in relation to any of the considered 
complaint points, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
BOS to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman