DRN-4005835
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) lent to him irresponsibly when it gave him 
two loans that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr B took out an unsecured loan for £16,000 with Lloyds in May 2017. The loan was 
repayable over five years at a cost of £358.94 a month. In January 2018, Mr B took out a 
further loan for £1,000 over a period of 52 months at a cost of £31.69 a month.
 
Mr B says that Lloyds failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial position. 
He thinks Lloyds was negligent in allowing him to take the loans. He asks that Lloyds pay 
back all interest and any charges he paid and to pay him compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr B made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision. Mr B makes many detailed submissions, all of which I 
have read and considered. I will only refer to those points which are relevant specifically to 
the matter of whether Lloyds did anything wrong when it gave him the loans.
Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Bs income, the total amount Mr B borrowed, and the length of time Mr B 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. For smaller sums 
and in the early days of a lending relationship it may be reasonable for Lloyds to have done 
fewer checks.
In Mr Bs case, he already had an existing relationship with Lloyds, so it was able to review 
the conduct of his account and establish whether it considered the loan repayments to be 
affordable. Mr B applied for the loan online.  He declared a monthly income of £1,950 and 
expenses each month of £900, including £300 for housing. Lloyds own assessment applied 
living costs of £396 which brought the total expenditure it took into account to £1,296 a 
month. On this basis Lloyds assessed that Mr B had £654 each month left each month after 
essential expenditure was taken into account, which made the £359 monthly repayments for 
the loan appear to be affordable. Combined with credit checks which Lloyds says showed 
that Mr B had no defaults or County Court Judgements (CCJs) in the 12 months prior to the 
application. Lloyds says the totality of these checks showed that the loan was affordable.
I think Lloyds should have done more to check Mr Bs circumstances given the size of the 
loan and the length of time over which Mr B intended to repay it. Mr B had an existing 
relationship with Lloyds, and he banked with it, so I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
have verified the information it had about his income and expenditure by reviewing these 
statements. 
While I dont consider that Lloyds carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for this 
loan, this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr Bs complaint. I have to consider 
what Lloyds might have seen had it done these checks and whether that would have led to 
Lloyds acting differently if it had done so. 
Looking at Mr Bs bank statements for the three months preceding the application and taking 
an average of his income and essential expenses across those three months our adjudicator 
estimated that Mr B had a disposable income each month closer to £918. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that is not a reasonable assessment. 
Mr B says that he was in significant overdraft with Lloyds at the time and this should have 
shown that he couldnt afford the loan. I can see that Mr B did, indeed, have a large overdraft 
with Lloyds at the time. But this doesnt mean that his essential expenditure was higher, or 
his income was lower. His discretionary spending may well have been higher than his 
disposable income, but this wasnt something Lloyds could predict. 
Mr B says he was vulnerable at the time  he was spending a lot of money on gambling and 
says he was an addict. However, in the three months prior to the application, Mr B had spent 
under £100 on gambling transactions that would have been visible to Lloyds. So I cant say 
that Lloyds ought to have not lent to Mr B on that basis. 
Mr B says that he had multiple overdrawn accounts at the time. I have not seen evidence of 
any accounts other than the one with Lloyds. I asked Mr B to supply a copy of his credit file 
so that I could assess Mr Bs overall borrowing, but he wasnt able to supply this. 
Mr B has also pointed to the fact that Lloyds had declined to provide loans to him not long 
before he took out this loan. I think that supports my view that Lloyds needed to do more 
checks before it lent to Mr B, but ultimately it does not affect the outcome as Lloyds would 
likely have only seen the information I have set out above if it had done more checks. 
Mr B took out a further loan about eight months later. His first loan was still active. Using the 
same principles about income and expenditure I have outline above it appears from the 
information provided by Mr B and the information gleaned by Lloyds from its own credit 
checks and expenditure assessment that Mr B would have been left with a disposable 
income of around £800 after the new repayments were of £31.69 were taken into account. Our adjudicator considered  and I agree  that Lloyds ought to have verified the information 
it had about Mr Bs financial circumstances. I say this because Mr B was applying for a 
relatively small amount given his income and he was borrowing it over a long period  52 
months. Lloyds knew that Mr B had only recently borrowed a significant amount. 
In their own calculations, our adjudicator assessed that Mr B had a disposable income of 
around £565. I havent seen anything to suggest this isnt a fair assessment. Mr B again 
explains that he was heavily indebted and was gambling heavily. Without a copy of Mr Bs 
credit file I cant fairly say he was over-indebted. I can see he was heavily in overdraft, which 
Lloyds would also have understood. This supports my finding that Lloyds should have asked 
for more information before lending to Mr B again. But even if it had, I dont think it would 
have made a difference to its decision to provide the loan. I have no evidence Mr B was 
indebted elsewhere. Mr B says that he transferred money around accounts for gambling, 
including his first loan. But I havent been provided with copies of transactions in other 
accounts other than his current account and I dont know what borrowing Mr B had 
elsewhere. Even if I think Lloyds ought to have done more to find out about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances at the time, I dont know for sure what it would have seen.
Mr B had been gambling in the period between his first and second loans and this would 
have been visible to Lloyds if it had reviewed his bank statements. But the gambling was 
over a single day in June 2017 and a four-day period in July 2017. While he had lost a 
significant amount of money (a total of around £2,700  around £300 more than the value of 
his overdraft at the time of his loan application) there is no evidence to support any assertion 
that Mr Bs gambling was problematic (other than that he hadnt won) or that Mr Bs 
gambling was out of control  I havent seen evidence that Mr B gambled at all in the six 
months prior to taking the loan. So even if Lloyds had looked back far enough at Mr Bs bank 
statements I dont think it would have considered Mr Bs gambling to be out of control or that 
he was particularly vulnerable as a result of an addiction to gambling. 
So, again, on the balance of probabilities and taking into account the information available to 
me, I think Lloyds didnt conduct reasonable or proportionate checks when it provided the 
January 2018 loan to Mr B. But even if it had done the checks I think would have been 
reasonable and proportionate I dont think it would have made a difference to the decision to 
lend to Mr B and I dont think that decision to lend to Mr B was unfair. 
I understand that Mr B has been struggling financially. I understand that meeting the 
repayments has been difficult. But I am unable to fairly say that Lloyds acted inappropriately, 
so I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It follows that Lloyds does not need to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and it follows that Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to do 
anything further
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman