DRN-2347705
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC has offered to 
pay her for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) on two personal loans she 
took out with it.
What happened
In 2020, Mrs H used the services of a claims management company (CMC) to investigate 
whether shed been sold PPI on any past financial products shed taken out. The CMC 
identified that shed been sold PPI on two loans (ending 9498 and 2792) shes taken out with 
Lloyds and supported her in making a claim against the business for the mis-sale of these 
policies.
Lloyds accepted that the single premium PPI policies attached to these two loans had been 
mis-sold and it offered to compensate her for these mis-sales. But Mrs H wasnt happy with 
the amount Lloyds offered her. She thought that Lloyds should also include in its offer the 
amount she was contractually required to pay the CMC for the work which it had undertaken 
for her on this mis-sale complaint. Miss H says she had previously asked Lloyds, in three 
letters she sent to it in 2013 and 2014, whether it had sold her PPI with any of the loans 
shed taken out. And she says that Lloyds responded to her final letter saying that she hadnt 
had PPI policies attached to any of her loans.
 
So Mrs H complained to Lloyds about this and the money she felt she only needed to pay 
the CMC now because of Lloyds error in not previously identifying these policies. In these 
circumstances, she thought Lloyds should include the amount she needed to pay the CMC 
of £1,286.68 in the total amount of compensation it offered her.
Lloyds responded to Mrs H saying that it had no record of her having written to it in 2013 and 
2014 about possible PPI sales on her loans. And it said it didnt have any record of the letter 
Mrs H says she received from it at that time saying she hadnt been sold PPI on these loans. 
So Lloyds didnt think it needed to offer her any more. But Lloyds also said that it would 
reconsider the position if Mrs H was able to provide a copy of the letter she said shed 
received from it.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so she complained to this service about the 
amount shes been offered. Our adjudicator thought that the amount that Lloyds had already 
offered Mrs H for the mis-sale of these PPI polices was fair, so he didnt think her complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has already agreed to uphold Mrs Hs complaint about the PPI policies being mis-
sold, in this decision Im not looking at how they came to be sold. I am only looking at 
whether the offer of compensation Lloyds has made in relation to these mis-sales is fair.
It also doesnt appear as if Mrs H is complaining about how the total compensation figure for 
these two PPI polices was calculated by Lloyds, other than that Lloyds isnt offering to pay 
the CMC costs she has incurred in pursuing her complaint. So I havent looked at these 
calculations in detail either. But Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that theyve been 
done using the methodology I would have expected. 
In this decision Ill be considering whether Lloyds should also have offered to reimburse 
Mrs H for the CMC charges she says she will need to pay because of her upheld mis-sale 
complaint.
We wouldnt normally expect a business to reimburse a customer who has made a 
successful PPI mis-sale complaint against it for any costs it may have incurred in making 
that complaint. It is open to a complainant to ask this service to investigate their complaint 
about the mis-sale of PPI free of charge. And in cases like Mrs Hs, where a consumer is 
unsure about whether they were sold PPI, we will ensure that the business carries out a 
thorough search of its systems and records to try to determine whether such a sale, or sales, 
took place. So, where a consumer chooses to use a CMC to support them, we would 
normally think it is reasonable for them to bear any additional costs that they may incur as a 
result of this, rather than the business that they are complaining about.
Nevertheless, Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said about writing to Lloyds on 
three separate occasions in 2013/14 about possible PPI cover on her loans. And Ive looked 
at the wording she says she included in the final letter she says she sent to Lloyds recorded 
delivery on 1 April 2014. Unfortunately, Mrs H says she doesnt now have a copy of the 
letter she received from Lloyds and thinks this may have been lost in a subsequent house 
fire.
Ive also carefully considered what Lloyds has said about the searches it has carried out for 
copies of these letters, together with the response Mrs H says it sent her following the last of 
these. And Im satisfied from what Lloyds has told me that it has carried out a though search 
for these documents. It has also confirmed to me that it did not include any reference to No 
PPI on her loan accounts when it sent Mrs H final response letters in relation to her other 
mortgage and credit card accounts with it.  However, Ive noted that Lloyds has said it would 
be willing to reconsider its current position about not making any additional payment to 
Mrs H - on an ex-gratia basis - should the letter she says she received from it come to light.
I have no particular reason to doubt that what Mrs H has said about asking Lloyds about PPI 
on her loans and receiving a No PPI response is her honest recollection of what happened. 
But Lloyds has also reconfirmed to me that it has carried out extensive searches of its 
records and has still been unable to find any communications between it and Mrs H in 
2013/14 in connection with PPI on her loan accounts.
So, in the absence of stronger evidence to support these recollections, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to conclude that Lloyds mis-informed Mrs H about not having PPI on her loan 
accounts in 2013/14. And as Ive said, we wouldnt normally expect a business to reimburse 
a complainant for the cost of using a CMC. Businesses like Lloyds do already bear the costs 
of this service investigating such complaints. And it was always open to Mrs H to ask this 
service to look into whether she had PPI on these accounts on her behalf  free of charge  
without using the services of a CMC.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. If 
Mrs H hasnt already received the compensation which Lloyds Bank PLC has offered her for the mis-sale of PPI on her loan accounts, it should now update its offer and pay this 
to Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman