DRN-3882375
The complaint
Mr S complains that Brew Dolphin Limited has unfairly charged him VAT on his execution-
only investment portfolio account.
What happened
Mr S has held an investment portfolio account with Brew Dolphin for over eight years. His 
account was originally set up under Brew Dolphins Discretionary Managed Service. 
However, Brew Dolphin wrote to Mr S in May 2015 to explain that his account was going to 
switch to an execution-only account, due to him becoming more involved in the individual 
investment decisions. Mr S benefited from a discounted family rate of 0.25% plus VAT on 
the value of all account assets charged quarterly in arrears. Brew Dolphin confirmed this 
would continue to be applied as it would be cheaper for Mr S than the standard Execution 
Only tariff.
Mr S complained to Brew Dolphin in July 2021 as he felt he shouldnt be charged VAT on an 
execution-only account and referred to other investment platforms that didnt charge VAT for 
such services. 
Brew Dolphin considered Mr S complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said it has 
obligations to HMRC to collect the correct amount of VAT from its clients. Brew Dolphin 
clarified that it doesnt charge VAT on commissions or bargain charges/transaction charges, 
however it does charge VAT on administration and/or management fees in respect of 
processing statements, administering corporate actions and processing dividends. So it 
didnt think it had acted unfairly by charging Mr S VAT for these services.
Mr S didnt accept Brew Dolphins findings and referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint but they felt Brew Dolphin was able to 
charge him VAT on his account. They said that Brew Dolphin charges a quarterly fee for the 
administration of his account which is VAT chargeable and that this fee is separate from any 
fees associated with the buying and selling of shares which are VAT exempt.
Mr S remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brew Dolphin has provided a copy of its fees and charges document for execution-only 
accounts. This clearly explains that a quarterly account fee will apply, and that VAT is 
charged on this. Its not clear whether Mr S is charged this account fee or whether he 
continues to benefit from a discounted family rate of 0.25% plus VAT on the value of all 
account assets charged quarterly in arrears. Brew Dolphin explained this was a cheaper 
option for Mr S than the standard Execution Only tariff when it wrote to him in May 2015. 
However, Brew Dolphin has confirmed that it charges VAT on management fees regardless 
of discounted rates. In my view, reading the document as a whole it is clear enough that  
VAT would be charged.
I appreciate Mr S has provided HMRC guidance which he feels shows Brew Dolphin 
shouldnt be charging VAT on execution-only accounts. However, the guidance doesnt 
seem to be in relation what Brew Dolphin are charging VAT for. The guidance refers to 
buying and selling of securities, whereas Brew Dolphin are charging VAT on administration 
and/or management fees in respect of processing statements, administering corporate 
actions and processing dividends. Ultimately, its not my role to decide whether Brew 
Dolphin is adhering to HMRC guidance. Instead, I need to be satisfied that Brew Dolphin 
was transparent about the charges Mr S would incur and Im persuaded it was. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman