DRN-3713839
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the difficulty hes had in obtaining a one-time password 
(OTP) from Santander UK Plc (Santander) to access online banking.
What happened
Ms S has a hearing impairment, and so is unable to hear clearly on the phone.
In July 2020 Mr S tried to log onto online banking with Santander. Because he hadnt used 
online banking in some time, Santander needed to send an OTP to his mobile phone. But 
Mr S had changed his mobile number, so couldnt receive the OTP.
Mr S contacted Santander about updating his mobile number so he could receive the 
OTP. He explained that he couldnt use the phone well, and he said he didnt have 
access to UK TypeTalk due to where he lived. He said he could be contacted by phone 
but may have difficulties.
Santander replied with some other options, such as using an interpreter to call, or using 
the sign video service. They also said he could visit his local branch, but recognised this 
would be inconvenient as it was 150 miles away from where Mr S lived.
Mr S replied asking Santander to contact him by phone. He explained hed need to the 
adviser to speak slowly, clearly and distinctly, and said he may have to repeat himself. 
Santanders complaints adviser suggested Mr S call her directly, and she would transfer 
him to the digital team to change his mobile number, which was likely to be easier for him 
than going through the call centre.
On 27 November 2020 Mr S spoke to Santander twice. The complaints adviser 
introduced the calls and put Mr S through to advisers on the digital team to complete the 
change to his number.
Mr S says he had difficulty understanding the first adviser because of his accent, and the 
second adviser spoke too fast. Some progress was made in the second call until Mr S 
was asked for his debit card details, which he didnt have. He says he was put on hold 
and then the line cut off  and nobody called him back.
Mr S registered a complaint with us about what had happened in December 2020, but he 
didnt contact us again to progress his complaint until June 2021. He said he was still 
unable to access online banking and he felt hed been discriminated against due to his 
disability.
While our investigator was looking into what had happened, Mr S told us that hed 
received a letter to say his account was going to be made dormant. Our investigator asked 
Santander some more questions about how they could communicate with Mr S, and to put 
a hold on the dormancy. In February 2022 Santander responded to say they had now 
updated Mr Ss mobile number without going through their usual security checks, as an 
exception, and theyd put a hold on the account being made dormant.
The investigator issued her view in March 2022. She said that she thought Santander 
should have updated Mr Ss mobile number as an exception earlier. And she felt his calls 
in November 2020 could have been handled better. She asked Santander to pay Mr S 
£250 in compensation.
Mr S replied to say his number was still showing incorrectly when he tried to access 
online banking so hed been unable to receive the OTP. Our investigator went back to 
Santander, who said theyd need to look into what had gone wrong with updating the 
number. On 26 April 2022 they told us that the number had now been updated correctly, 
and on the same day Mr S confirmed he had access to online banking.
Santander agreed to pay Mr S £250 in compensation in line with the investigators view. 
But Mr S felt that the compensation of £250 recommended by the investigator wasnt 
enough. So the complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
After reviewing the complaint, I asked Santander if they would increase their offer and 
they agreed to increase it to £350. I put this offer to Mr S, but he decided not to accept 
it. He explained in some more detail about the impact this experience had had on him, 
and said hed accept an offer in the region of £750.
Mr S has now let us know that Santanders recently paid £500 to him directly to settle 
this complaint. But as Mr S has let us and Santander know he isnt willing to accept 
£500 Ive proceeded with my review and decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 August 2022. This is what I said then.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to the investigator. Ill explain why.
I do think the service provided by Santander has fallen short here. I appreciate Mr S 
suggested Santander call him to arrange for him to change his mobile number, after 
exhausting the other options  but he also explained how he needed the calls to be 
handled for them to be productive. And having listened to the available call recordings 
from 27 November 2020 I can see why Mr S found them difficult.
Mr S was able to understand the complaints adviser, and Im glad to see that she was 
mindful of Mr Ss needs in her conversations with him. But in following the security 
process, she said she needed to put him through directly to speak to the digital banking 
team, and this is where things went wrong.
The advisers Mr S spoke to both had strong regional accents. Mr S says he struggled to 
understand the accent of the first adviser he spoke to in the digital banking team, and 
although the adviser was patient its clear from listening to the call that Mr S was unable 
to understand when the adviser was asking him for particular characters of his password. 
And when the adviser asked Mr S if he had his debit card, he misheard the question. Mr 
S explained he couldnt continue the call as it was too stressful, and he would get back to 
the complaints adviser. Mr S then ended the call.
Mr S spoke to the complaints adviser again, and explained he was becoming very 
stressed. He asked the complaints adviser if he could just complete the process of 
changing his mobile number with her as he was able to understand her more easily. But 
she explained that she wasnt able to complete the process herself. She asked Mr S if he had his debit card details with him as theyd be needed, but I dont think he understood 
what she was asking at that point.
When the complaints adviser introduced Mr Ss call to the second adviser in the digital 
team, she explained how difficult Mr S was finding it to understand the calls with them, 
and asked the adviser to make sure he was speaking more slowly. She also mentioned 
that the adviser was speaking quickly to her, and she was struggling to understand 
herself.
We dont have a recording of the second call between Mr S and the digital team. But Mr 
S has explained that he repeatedly asked the adviser to speak more slowly, but the 
adviser continued to speak quickly. And having listened to the introduction to the call, I 
dont have any reason to doubt what Mr S is saying here.
Towards the end of the call, Ms S says adviser asked him for debit card details that he 
didnt have to hand, as he hadnt used the account in some time. Mr S says he was put on 
hold for some time and then cut off. So, the call ended with Mr S becoming very 
distressed and frustrated, without the issue being resolved.
Santander do need to take care when updating information to allow access to online 
banking, to protect their customers from potential fraud. So, I understand that they needed 
to take steps to verify Mr Ss identity before changing his mobile number. But I think 
Santander could have made more of an effort to step outside their usual process to try to 
work with Mr S to find a way to resolve the issue with Mr Ss online banking access at a 
much earlier stage. If a phone call was necessary in their process, I think they could have 
thought more carefully about Mr Ss stated requirements and been more flexible with their 
approach  for example, by appointing a particular adviser to talk to him directly from the 
digital banking team, rather than putting him through to whoever picked up the call.
Ive thought carefully about the impact not having access to online banking has had on Mr 
S. Santander have told us that Mr S has his main account elsewhere and doesnt use this 
account often - he hadnt used online banking for over a year before he tried to log on in 
July 2020. I can see that it was around seven months after originally trying to access 
online banking that he brought a complaint to us which would also suggest he didnt need 
access immediately.
Mr S has told me that he needed access to transfer some shares  and also, for safety 
and security of the money, which is understandable. But Ive not seen anything so far to 
show the time its taken to access his accounts with Santander has had a significant 
financial impact on Mr S.
However, gaining access to his accounts has been a frustrating and inconvenient 
experience for Mr S that has taken over a year to resolve. And in addition to this, I think 
hes been caused upset and distress, because he felt he was being barred from accessing 
his account due to his hearing impairment. 
Mr S has focussed on the phone calls with Santander, particularly the second call with the 
digital team, which he says made him feel very upset. And hes said the delay in 
progressing the complaint with us was because he was so down in the dumps about how 
Santander had treated him.
Mr S feels strongly that hes been discriminated against  particularly during the calls 
with Santander - and has mentioned a number of legal terms such as negligence or 
personal injury. I understand why Mr S would feel this way. But I cant make a legal 
finding about whether discrimination has taken place  that would be for a court to decide. I can only consider whether Santander have acted fairly and reasonably. And I 
dont think they have here.
The investigator recommended Santander pay Mr S £250 in compensation, and 
Santander later increased their offer to £350. And Mr S has told us theyve now paid him 
£500 directly. As Ive said Mr S feels compensation of at least £750 would be 
reasonable, due to the time this went on and the impact it has had on him.
Ive thought very carefully about the compensation award here. I do appreciate why Mr S 
thinks the compensation award should be higher than Santander have currently offered, 
and Id like to reassure him that in reaching a figure I have taken into account everything 
hes said about the overall impact on him, as well as awards weve made in similar 
circumstances. And Ive provisionally decided that £500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
Santander replied to say they accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S replied to say, in summary, that he felt he had a constitutional right to receive £750 
and he thinks I provisionally decided £500 was fair because this is the amount Santander 
had already paid him. He said I accepted in my provisional decision that Santander had 
done something wrong. He said he previously received a payment of £300 on a different 
complaint and he feels this involved far less trouble than Santander caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it remains my decision that £500 is fair compensation. So, Im not upholding 
Mr Ss complaint  in the sense that although I agree with Mr S that Santander havent 
treated him fairly, I think theyve already done enough to put things right.
I do understand that Mr S feels he was awarded (relatively) more on a previous complaint, 
but I must make my decision about whats fair compensation based on the circumstances of 
this complaint, which is what I have done. And I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome 
here. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, because I know he remains unhappy, but Im not going to ask 
Santander to pay him any more compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint, because Santander UK Plc have 
already paid Mr S fair compensation. So, they dont need to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman