DRN-4006254
The complaint
Mr H complains about the delay and the level of income tax deducted by ReAssure Limited 
(ReAssure) in connection with money withdrawn from his two personal pension plans 
(PPPs). He says that the delay and deduction of excessive income tax has caused him to 
suffer distress and a financial loss.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr H and ReAssure. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr H had two PPPs with ReAssure. He contacted ReAssure on 7 February 2022 to discuss 
his retirement options as he approached his 55th birthday. He says that based on his 
discussions with ReAssure he decided to withdraw 25% tax-free cash and a taxable lump 
sum of £20,000 from each of his PPPs. He wanted those taxable lump sums to be paid 
separately during the 2021/22 and 2022/23 tax years to minimise his income tax liability.
Following the initial phone call, Mr H chased ReAssure for the forms required to complete his 
withdrawal request. On 8 March 2022, ReAssure paid tax-free cash to Mr H. Following this, it 
paid two taxable lump sums to him, as follows:
Date paid Tax year Gross amount Income tax 
deductedNet amount 
paid to Mr H
24 March 2022 2021/22 £20,000 £7,274.61 £12,725.39
16 March 2022 2022/23 £20,000 £2,802.70 £17,197.30
This complaint
Mr H was unhappy about the delay in processing his withdrawal request and the level of 
income tax of £7,274.61 deducted from the first taxable withdrawal paid on 24 March 2022. 
So he complained to ReAssure. He said that when discussing his retirement options in 
February 2022, ReAssure had told him over the phone that the taxable payments would be 
subject to income tax at the basic rate of 20%  so he expected income tax of about £4,000 
to be deducted from each of the taxable payments. Therefore, he was shocked and upset 
when it deducted income tax of £7,274.61 from the first taxable payment.
ReAssure upheld Mr Hs complaint. In its final response letter, it apologised for the delay in 
processing his withdrawal request and the distress this had caused. In recognition of this, it 
paid £125 compensation to Mr H and said that it would also carry out a loss assessment to 
determine if the delay had caused him to suffer a financial loss (with details to follow at a 
later date). ReAssure didnt confirm the outcome of its loss assessment or provide a 
response to Mr Hs complaint point about the information he had been given over the phone 
about the level of income tax that would be deducted from the taxable payments.
  
Mr H wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and so referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator thought that ReAssures offer to remedy the matter was fair and reasonable 
for the following reasons:
Delay: She thought that ReAssures offer to pay £125 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by its delay in processing his withdrawal request was fair in the 
circumstances. And she also thought that ReAssures offer to carry out a loss 
assessment was fair but hadnt seen any evidence it had been carried out. Based on 
the available evidence, she expected the loss assessment to show that Mr Hs loss 
was under £10. So, to resolve this complaint, she recommended that ReAssure pay 
Mr H £10 compensation in respect of this element of his complaint.
Income tax: While she was unable to access the relevant call recordings, she noted 
that ReAssure had confirmed the tax position to Mr H in writing before he withdrew 
money from his PPPs. In that letter, ReAssure explained to Mr H that his first taxable 
withdrawal would be taxed by HMRC on the emergency rate basis and that this 
would mean he would pay either too little or too much tax. The information confirmed 
that any overpaid tax would need to be reclaimed separately from HMRC. So, 
regardless of what Mr H may have been told over the phone, she was satisfied that 
he was made aware of the income tax position before he instructed ReAssure to pay 
him the taxable lump sums.
ReAssure agreed to pay the recommended £10 compensation. However, Mr H didnt accept 
our investigators assessment. He refused to believe that the call recordings werent 
available and that ReAssure was unfairly withholding information to prevent this service from 
carrying out a thorough investigation. He said that ReAssure had provided a poor level of 
service throughout which had caused him to suffer a great deal of distress. He thought our 
investigators assessment was inadequate and that he had been treated unfairly by both 
ReAssure and this service. Our investigator considered Mr Hs additional comments but 
wasnt persuaded to change her view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I want to address Mr Hs comments about our investigator and this 
services role. Its clear that hes unhappy with the outcome recommended by our 
investigator and feels that this service hasnt properly investigated his complaint. He said 
that using this service has been a waste of his time. Im sorry he feels that way. It might be 
helpful if I clarify our role. 
Firstly, were not the financial services regulator. So we dont police the industry or ensure 
that financial businesses adhere to the relevant rules and regulations. That is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. If ReAssure says that the relevant call recordings arent 
available then we have to accept this at face value and base our decision on the other 
available evidence. Secondly, our role is to consider individual complaints and, in essence, 
to decide whether or not the financial business made an error or treated the consumer 
unfairly. Our aim in resolving the problem is to place the consumer, as close as possible, into 
the correct financial position had the error or unfair treatment not happened.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator 
for the following reasons:
ReAssures role  When Mr H contacted ReAssure in February 2022, its role, as 
the scheme administrator, was to provide accurate information so that he could make an informed decision and to act on the instructions it received from him in a timely 
manner.
Delay  The earliest date Mr H could access his benefits was at age 55 at the end of 
February 2022. Theres no dispute that ReAssure was responsible for a delay of a 
few weeks in processing Mr Hs withdrawal request. ReAssure has already accepted 
this and previously paid him £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
the delay. I think this level of compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances bearing in mind the length of the delay.
Loss assessment  As for the loss assessment calculation in connection with the 
delayed withdrawal, ReAssure has confirmed to this service that, as at                              
16 February 2023, the financial loss was £2.78. This is in line with our investigators 
expectation. Therefore, I think our investigators recommendation that ReAssure pay 
Mr H £10 compensation in respect of the loss assessment is fair. ReAssure 
previously confirmed to this service that it agreed with this outcome.
Income tax position  Before March 2022, Mr H hadnt previously taken a taxable 
withdrawal from his ReAssure PPPs. As a result, it didnt hold an up to date tax code 
for him to apply to the first taxable withdrawal. HMRC has previously specified that 
where a scheme administrator doesnt hold an up to date tax code then lump sum 
withdrawals must be subject to income tax on the emergency tax basis. This usually 
results in an overpayment of tax for most individuals taking their first taxable 
withdrawal from their PPP. The overpaid tax can be reclaimed from HMRC. 
Therefore, in my view, ReAssure acted in accordance with HMRC requirements 
when it applied the emergency tax rate and deducted £7,274.61 in income tax to              
Mr Hs first taxable withdrawal of £20,000 on 24 March 2022. As a result, I dont think 
ReAssure made any error on this point in terms of deducting and remitting to HMRC 
the correct level of tax at that time.
Tax information  Mr H says that ReAssure told him over the phone that taxable 
payments would be subject to income tax at the basic rate of 20%  therefore he 
expected income tax of about £4,000 to be deducted on that first taxable withdrawal. 
As noted by our investigator, the relevant call recordings arent available  so I 
cannot be sure what ReAssure told Mr H over the phone. But even if I did have 
access to the calls and it was established that Mr H had been incorrectly told the 
payments would be subject to income tax at the basic rate of 20%, it wouldnt change 
the outcome of this complaint. This is because, based on the information held by 
ReAssure, it wouldnt have been able to apply the basic rate of tax to his first 
withdrawal, for the reasons explained above. Notwithstanding what ReAssure may 
have told Mr H over the phone, it later confirmed the correct tax position to him in 
writing. Below is an excerpt from the relevant letter:Based on this, Im satisfied that ReAssure ultimately provided accurate information to 
Mr H so that he could make an informed decision regarding the income tax position 
before he withdrew taxable money from his PPPs.
I understand that Mr H was shocked and distressed by the level of income tax of 
£7,274.61 deducted from his first taxable withdrawal. But, as Ive explained above, 
ReAssure taxed that payment in accordance with HMRC requirements. I think Mr H 
suffered a loss of expectation rather than an actual financial loss. If he thinks he paid 
too much income tax on his taxable withdrawals then hes entitled to claim a refund 
from HMRC to place him into the correct financial position  details on how to claim a 
refund can be found on HMRCs website. Its Mr Hs responsibility to organise his 
personal tax affairs including claiming a tax refund. This isnt something that 
ReAssure would get involved with.
Tax years  One of the points Mr H mentioned in making this complaint was his 
desire for the two taxable lump sums to be paid separately during the 2021/22 and 
2022/23 tax years to minimise his income tax liability. I can see that this happened, 
so I cannot find ReAssure at fault on this point.
Conclusion 
For the reasons explained above, its my view that ReAssure has paid adequate 
compensation in respect of the trouble and upset caused by the delay. As for the loss 
assessment for the delay, ReAssure has agreed to pay £10 which I think is fair and 
reasonable based on the loss position as at 16 February 2023. Finally, I dont think 
ReAssure made an error regarding the level of income tax deducted from the taxable 
withdrawals paid to Mr H or that hes suffered a financial loss on this point  so I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to award compensation in connection with this element of his 
complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, its my view that ReAssure must pay Mr H £10 compensation, as 
previously recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct ReAssure Limited to settle this complaint as Ive set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman