DRN-3534463
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the service shes received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
(RBS) surrounding the returning of unpaid cheques.
What happened
Ms D opened a new current account with RBS in November 2020. Unfortunately, the
account was opened without the successful capture of Ms Ds signature by RBS. The
absence of this signature meant that RBS couldnt verify the authenticity of several cheques
that Ms D issued - often for substantial amounts  and resulted in the cheques being
returned as unpaid by RBS.
When the first series of cheques was returned as unpaid, RBS sent a letter to Ms D which
gave ten possible reasons why the cheques may have been returned. This letter included
that there may have been an issue with Ms Ds signature, but at that time the specific reason
why the cheques had been returned hadnt been ascertained by RBS, and Ms D wasnt
aware that RBS not holding her signature was the issue.
A few weeks later, more cheques that Ms D had issued were returned as unpaid, and RBS
sent the same letter to Ms D as they had before. Ms D wasnt happy that her cheques
werent being paid by RBS and wasnt aware of any reason why that should be the case. So,
she raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Ms Ds complaint. They explained that the cheques had been stopped for
security reasons to protect Ms Ds money, and while they acknowledged Ms Ds frustration,
they didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms D wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They liaised with both Ms D and RBS,
during which time it was confirmed that the reason for the cheques being returned was
because RBS didnt hold a copy of Ms Ds signature.
Our investigator felt that it had been RBSs responsibility to have ensured that Ms Ds
signature had been captured at the time that the account was opened, and they
acknowledged that Ms D hadnt been able to complete investment objectives because of the
returning of the cheques by RBS and that shed lost out on potential interest and investment
returns because of this. As such, after detailed discussions with both Ms D and RBS, our
investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in Ms Ds favour and that
RBS should make a payment of £500 to Ms D by way of compensation.
Ms D wasnt satisfied with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 May 2022 as follows:
RBS dont dispute that not having a copy of Ms Ds signature led to Ms Ds cheques 
being returned as unpaid, and theyve accepted that Ms D should be compensated 
financially because of this. What is in dispute is the amount of compensation that 
should be paid.
Ms D has explained that that the purpose of several of the returned cheques was to 
move large amounts of money to other accounts where the balances would have 
benefitted from better rates of interest than was provided by the RBS current 
account. In addition, Ms D felt that shed been affected financially by not being able 
to make a large payment to her mortgage, which one of the cheques was intended to 
do, meaning that the larger mortgage balance continued to incur interest.
It's difficult to accurately quantify Ms Ds potential losses here without more accurate
information, and it also must be remembered that other forms of transferring money 
between accounts besides the use of cheques was available to Ms D. Indeed, RBS 
have confirmed that Ms D did make some transfers via CHAPS, and so Im satisfied 
that Ms D was aware of other methods of moving money, and able to use them.
While liaising with our investigator, RBS calculated that Ms Ds potential losses may 
be £350. This was based on loss of interest calculations from the dates that the 
cheques ought reasonably have cleared into the intended accounts up to the point 
that CHAPS payments were made by Ms D, as well as calculating the additional 
interest that Ms D would potentially have incurred on her mortgage up to the date 
when a successful transfer to the mortgage account by Ms D was made.
This seems reasonable to me, and I feel that this amount of compensation along with 
a further £150 in light of the trouble and upset this matter has caused Ms D  
resulting in a total payment of £500  does represent a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint.
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Ms Ds favour and instructing RBS to make a payment of £500 to Ms D, 
which as explained I feel provides fair recompense to Ms D for any losses and for 
any upset and inconvenience she may have incurred.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs D and RBS the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
In response, Mrs D did provide some further comments and explained that she wasnt 
assured that RBS wouldnt have the same issue regarding future cheques that she might 
issue to herself moving forwards. I can appreciate Mrs Ds trepidation here, but this service 
isnt a regulatory body and our remit only concerns matters of complaint. So, while I feel that 
RBS are aware of Mrs Ds concerns, I can only encourage Mrs D to confirm with RBS herself 
that they have all the information needed by them for this issue to not arise again.
Ultimately, taking Mrs Ds further comments into consideration, it remains my position that 
upholding this complaint in Mrs Ds favour and instructing RBS to make a payment of £500 
to Mrs D does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what has happened here. And I 
can therefore confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint in Mrs Ds 
favour on that basis accordingly.Putting things right
RBS must make a payment of £500 to Mrs D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman