DRN-3127259
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) will not allow 
him to take his pension benefits in the manner he wants contrary to the flexibility offered by 
his plan. He wants Prudential to either facilitate this or meet the costs of transferring to a 
new plan. 
What happened
Mr Ds plan was originally taken out in 1990 with Scottish Amicable which was subsequently 
taken over by Prudential. Mr D is a retired financial adviser and familiar with pension 
arrangements and the retirement options available. The policy with Scottish Amicable was 
arranged with ten sub policies, sometimes referred to as segments or clusters across the 
wider pensions market. Prudential has argued there is only one policy. Mr D says that the 
Scottish Amicable policy documents dont refer to segments but to a series of 10 identical 
contracts. 
Mr D wanted to access some of his benefits under the plan by fully encashing two of these 
sub policies through the Uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) option, which was 
introduced by the pension freedom legislation in 2015. Under UFPLS 25% of the fund can be 
taken as tax free cash with the balance being paid as a one-off amount subject to income 
tax. By taking just two of the sub policies Mr D says he wouldnt incur a liability to higher rate 
tax. 
Initially Prudential said Mr D would be able to do this. It then said this wasnt possible with 
his existing plan as it could only provide the UFPLS option if fully encashed. Prudential said 
its newer pension plans could facilitate UFPLS in stages, but that Mr D would need to take 
financial advice about arranging this. It did say that he could transfer any number of the 
individual arrangements, referring to these as segments.
Mr D complained to Prudential. He quoted the original terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the 
plan which referred to him making ten applications for ten identical contracts. He said that if 
Prudential could facilitate UFPLS across the entire plan it should also offer this for the 
individual arrangements. Particularly as it had confirmed it was possible to transfer the 
individual arrangements separately to new pension plans.
Prudential accepted Mr D had been provided with incorrect information about what it offered 
under his plan. It apologised and paid £300 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
But on the main points it disputed there were ten individual arrangements saying there was 
only one plan. It said UFPLS was not an option when Mr D took the policy out and a 
business decision was made to only facilitate it on the overall plan to protect not only our 
business but our customers which had been made in good faith. Consequently, it couldnt 
cover costs incurred in transferring the plan to a new arrangement which could provide 
UFPLS in the way Mr D required. 
Mr D responded with further arguments about the contractual basis of his plan, but 
Prudential didnt agree, so Mr D referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it.
He said he was satisfied Prudentials legacy policy didnt have a drawdown option.  He 
agreed that it wasnt a requirement that Mr D take advice about either transferring the plan or 
taking benefits. But said that newer plans that could do what Mr D wanted, were only 
available from Prudential on an advised basis and that it was entitled to decide how it 
wanted to do business. He said there was only one policy that was segmented. The T&Cs 
confirmed that this allowed each segment to be either transferred or to provide retirement 
benefits via the purchase of an annuity after the payment of a tax-free cash sum. He said 
Prudential wasnt obliged to update the T&Cs to reflect the new retirement options that 
became available in 2015 and the business decision to allow UFPLS across the whole plan 
was a reasonable business decision. 
Mr D disagreed and provided some further documents about the structure of the Scottish 
Amicable plan being ten individual policies. He said the original basis of the policy was to 
offer flexibility and Prudentials subsequent business decision had undermined that. He said 
if Prudential wouldnt allow UFPLS across the individual arrangements it should have 
advised him this was the case at the earliest opportunity rather than providing only generic 
documents where this wasnt made clear. 
Our investigator put Mr Ds points to Prudential. It said that legacy plans like Mr Ds dont 
provide the flexibility for partial withdrawals. It disagreed that there were ten separate 
policies. Our investigator didnt change his view and said there was only one policy made up 
of ten arrangements which could only be transferred to a new plan or used to provide tax 
free cash and annuity benefits.   
As Mr D doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr D, so Ill explain why Ive come to this decision. Ive sympathy 
with Mr Ds arguments that there are ten individual policies under his plan and calling them 
segments or clusters doesnt change that. However, in this case the T&Cs havent been 
updated to facilitate to reflect the pension freedom legislation, and as Mr Ds accepts 
Prudential doesnt have to do this. And I think thats relevant here. 
Strictly, this means that the flexibility offered by the individual policies is limited to that set out 
in the T&Cs. These, unsurprisingly, provide only for the options available under the relevant 
tax legislation at the time the plan was taken out. These were: transfer to another pension 
plan, or annuity purchase with or without a tax-free lump sum. Whilst Prudential itself no 
longer offers annuities the plan is still facilitating these options, as Id expect it to.
I understand Mr Ds point that in offering UFPLS across the whole plan Prudential seems to 
be contradicting itself with what is says it can and cant facilitate, and that this isnt treating 
customers fairly. But I think its likely that allowing the entire plan to be accessed through the 
UFPLS option will meet the needs of most policyholders still holding a plan of this age. And, I 
think significantly, it ends the administrative relationship (for that plan) between the customer 
and Prudential, whereas a more complex phased strategy would not. So, I dont think theres 
any requirement for Prudential to facilitate staged UFPLS for this contract and the business 
decision it has made about this is reasonable.Mr D also doesnt think its fair that Prudential wont accept applications for its current 
pension plan unless the customer has taken financial advice. He says it told him it would 
charge around £4,000 to advise on transferring his existing plan to a new arrangement, 
which he doesnt think is reasonable as hes an existing customer. 
I dont think Prudential has acted unfairly here. It hasnt misinformed Mr D that he must take 
advice about UFPLS and hes aware other pension providers wouldnt require him to. It is 
entitled to set out the basis on which it will do business and what it would like to charge for 
the advisory services it offers. And Mr D is free to shop around if he does want to take 
advice. 
Mr D also says Prudential should have advised him at an early stage that it doesnt facilitate 
staged UFPLS rather than sending out generic information. I wouldnt expect a pension 
provider to give notice of potential limitations in existing contracts following legislative 
change until further prompted to do so by the customer contacting it about the arrangement. 
Prudential does accept that it initially incorrectly told Mr D it could do what he wanted, and it 
has apologised for this. This error has caused Mr D inconvenience and frustration. 
Prudential has apologised and paid £300 in compensation for what happened. I think thats 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint and Prudential neednt do any more than it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman