DRN-2274578
The complaint
 Mr E complains that NewDay Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of undelivered wine. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr E purchased wine from a merchant at a cost of £4500. He used his 
credit card for the transaction. He had made other purchases from this merchant and the 
wine had been delivered to a bonded warehouse as per the contract. However, in April 2019, 
Mr E realised that the wine he had purchased had not been delivered. He made enquiries 
and believed he had been the victim of a scam.
Mr E filed a Section 75 claim with NewDay as he felt there was a breach of contract by the 
supplier given the wine hadnt been delivered. However, this was rejected by NewDay on the 
basis the expenditure was gambling transaction.  It said deposits do not meet the 
requirements of Section 75 as they are transfers of funds to gaming establishments and are 
quasi-cash withdrawals. It added that such transactions are categorised as electronic money 
transfers and compared the transaction to investing in binary options.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
NewDay said that Mr E had contacted it on 1 November 2018 asking it to cancel the 
transaction nothing more was heard until April 2019. It had emailed the merchant but 
received no reply. It said the invoice from the merchant stated: All purchases are traded 
subject to market risk and may go up as well as down. We are expressly prohibited from 
guaranteeing accounts against losses arising from market conditions."
It said that its terms and conditions for the account contained the following definitions: Cash 
advance  cash (other than a Money transfer), travellers cheques or foreign currency 
obtained by using the Card or finance payments or Gambling transactions made with the 
Card. It defined a Gambling Transaction - using your Card to Purchase lottery tickets or 
take part in any form of gambling such as betting, gaming or wagering.
In effect it said that Mr E had placed a cash deposit into an account for the purposes of 
gambling.
Our investigator said that Mr E had bought physical bottles of wine which appeared not to 
have been delivered to the warehouse where his previous purchases were stored. Even 
though he may have purchased the wine as an investment, he still purchased physical 
goods that werent supplied and this was a breach of contract.
NewDay didnt agree and said the wine had been bought as an investment and not for 
personal consumption.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the chain is unbroken which leaves only the matter of breach of contract. The 
merchant describes itself as wine and spirit merchant. Its terms and conditions include the 
following: 
Description of Goods and Services: We undertake to provide you with the wine listed in the 
Wine Reservation Form provided to you. By signing the Wine Reservation Form and 
returning it to us you are confirming you wish to proceed with the order.
[The merchant] will provide you with information on an independent HMRC bonded 
warehouse to which your wine will be transferred, although you are free to make any 
arrangements to suit you, including the use of an alternative warehouse account.
You are required to have a private storage account at a bonded warehouse in to which your 
wine will be transferred. [The merchant] will not hold or store any wines on behalf of any third 
parties.
Later on, it confirms that ownership is transferred to you once the wine is delivered to your 
nominated bonded warehouse.
NewDay has made two related arguments, one that Mr E made a deposit similar to those by 
people who acquire binary options and secondly that he was gambling.
I believe the comparison with binary options transactions to be false. Generally, a person 
investing in binary options places their money in an account in their name provided by the 
options company as an intermediary step and the money is taken from that account to invest 
in the options. The initial transaction is the transfer of money from the credit card account to 
the holding account of the binary options company. There is no direct purchase of any 
options. It is a financial transaction with money moving from one account to another with no 
purchase being made at that point. It is more akin to someone moving money from their 
current bank account to a savings account.
In Mr Es case I have seen no evidence that he was transferring funds to an account in his 
name. It seems it was simple and direct transaction. He chose the wine he wanted to buy 
and he paid for the wine which was to be delivered to a bonded warehouse of his choice. I 
gather that is what happened with the other transactions he made. Regrettably, the final one 
wasnt delivered. As such I cannot accept NewDays argument on that point.
The second argument is that Mr E was gambling and the terms and conditions of his account 
treat gambling transactions as cash advances. Although there can be a fine line between 
investing and gambling, I think that in this case there is a clear distinction. In general, 
gambling is a time bound event whereas investing is not so constrained. For example, gambling on a horse to win is race is determined by the outcome of that race. But investing 
in shares allows the investor to choose when they buy and sell. 
With wine the value may go down initially, but then go up and the buyer can decide when to 
sell. They are not obliged to take loss, but potentially can defer selling until the price 
increases. 
An individual can buy any number of different types of asset to hold as an investment, e.g. a 
vintage car, or diamonds or rare books or records. Section 75 doesnt require that these be 
purchased for personal consumption. The buyer of the car doesnt have to drive it or the 
owner of the rare book doesnt have to read it to qualify. The fact that they are seeking to 
hold an asset in the hope of selling it at a later date at a profit does not make it a gambling 
transaction.
Mr E simply bought some wine and hoped that he could sell it later at a profit. I do not 
consider that to be gambling and if anything, it is more like making an investment. I believe it 
is not disputed that the merchant failed to deliver the goods for which Mr E had made 
payment and I consider that to have been a breach of contract which falls within Section 75.
Putting things right
NewDay should accept Mr Es claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Ltd to refund £4,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman