DRN-4353493
The complaint
Miss S has complained that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) blocked 
her account for a number of months and didnt return all her money back to her. She wants 
to be compensated for the losses she suffered as a result of not having access to her 
account for such a long time and says this impacted her family and also her health.
 
What happened
Miss S received a £900 payment in December 2022 and as this wasnt credited to her 
account, she contacted Chase in January 2023 to ask why. She was told that her account 
was under a regulatory review. This also meant that the account was blocked so she wasnt 
able to access any of her funds. Chase also wrote to Miss S to ask her to provide proof she 
was entitled to the £900 and said that until valid proof was provided, she wouldnt be able to 
use those funds and her account would continue to be restricted. Chase said if proof wasnt 
provided within seven days, it would return the funds to the payees bank. 
Chase also asked Miss S what the payment was for and said it had received a report from 
another bank saying the payment was in relation to a cryptocurrency scam. Miss S refuted 
this and said it was for clothing and for the provision of services. She initially provided an 
invoice showing it was payment for clothing. Chase said this wasnt sufficient and Miss S 
provided texts shed exchanged with the payee and also a link to her webpage where she 
advertised the services she provides. All the evidence was provided within seven days of 
Chases initial letter asking for proof of entitlement.
Miss S was in touch with Chase over January and February 2023 almost on a daily basis 
asking for updates. She was told her account was under review and no timescale could be 
provided. 
Miss S then complained about not having access to her account and said she should at least 
be entitled to access benefits payments that were made to her by the government. Among 
other things she told Chase that her mother was ill and she wasnt able to visit her, that she 
was being threatened with eviction because she wasnt able to pay her rent and also that 
she needed money for her children. Chase didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was acting 
in line with its terms and conditions when carrying out a review and was not obliged to 
provide a deadline as to when this would be completed. 
Miss S complained to us in February 2023 while the account was still under review. She said 
this was her main account and that it was still blocked. Before our investigator completed her 
review, Chase confirmed that Miss Ss funds were returned to her in July 2023, apart from 
the £900, and that the account was still suspended. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Her view was that though it was 
fair and reasonable for Chase to block the account in order to carry out a review this should 
have been completed sooner. She also didnt think the £900 should have been returned to 
source and that Miss S had demonstrated that she was entitled to it. Our investigator said 
Chase should pay Miss S her funds back plus interest, pay interest on the funds that Miss S 
couldnt access until they were returned to her in July 2023 and also £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Chase agreed but Miss S didnt. She said the fact that she wasnt able to access her funds 
for such a long time had a big impact on her. She said she wasnt able to pay legal fees 
which resulted in her children being taken away from her and also that the stress of not 
having access to her account impacted her health and that she needed treatment. She feels 
the compensation should be higher, around £20,000.
Our investigator responded to say we wouldnt award compensation for legal fees or medical 
treatment. Our investigator asked for further evidence in relation Miss Ss legal fees, but this 
wasnt provided. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chase has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. These obligations are ongoing. To comply with its obligations Chase may 
need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. The terms and conditions of 
Miss Ss account permit Chase to block an account. This means Chase is entitled to review 
an account at any time. 
Miss S has complained about the length of her account review and the fact that she had no 
access to any funds in that account for about six months. So these are the issues I will be 
considering in this decision. The account may have been closed by now and if that is the 
case and if Miss S wishes to complain about that she can raise a new complaint with Chase. 
As Miss S is aware, Chase received a report from another bank stating that the payment of 
£900 made in December 2022 related to an alleged scam. I dont think this is something 
Chase could ignore and, for that reason, I think it was fair and reasonable for Chase to 
investigate the report and also to block the account in order to carry out its investigation.
 
Chase wrote to Miss S on 23 January 2023 asking for proof of entitlement to the payment 
within seven days. From what I have seen, Miss S provided sufficient proof within the seven 
days she was required to do this. She supplied an invoice and also texts in support of the 
fact that the payment was for services shed provided. I appreciate the invoice says it was for 
clothing, but I dont think this means she wasnt entitled to the payment. The texts showed 
that a service was likely provided on the day the invoice was made out and it was in the 
payees name. I think this was sufficient and I am satisfied that, on balance, Miss S was 
entitled to the £900 payment. Furthermore, in the specific circumstances I understand why a 
full description wasnt given in the invoice. 
For the reason above, I think Chase should have unblocked the account shortly after the 
proof of entitlement was provided. Chase returned some of Miss Ss funds but not until May 
(the benefits payments) and July 2023. I think it held on to those funds longer than it should 
have and I think this caused Miss S a loss as she had no access and wasnt able to use 
those funds. For that reason, I think Chase should also pay interest on those funds up to 
May and July 2023- I think this represents fair compensation for the loss Miss S suffered. 
Despite Miss S providing sufficient proof within seven days Chase decided to return the 
funds to the payees bank. I dont think this was fair and reasonable because, as I said above, based on the evidence Ive seen I think that it is more likely than not that Miss S was 
entitled to that payment. So, I think Chase should return the £900 back to Miss S with 
interest. 
Miss S called Chase almost daily to get an update regarding her account. In each call she 
explained the impact this was having on her and her family. In each call she was told that 
her account was under review and that she would be updated once the review was 
completed. I understand that account reviews can take time to complete but I havent seen 
anything from Chase to explain why it took around six months for it to return Miss Ss funds 
to her. I appreciate her benefits payments were paid to her in May 2023 but I think that is still 
a long time to wait. For these reasons I think Chase should pay Miss S £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused her by not acting more quickly when it came to releasing her 
funds to her. 
Miss S said that she feels that the compensation should be much higher. I should explain 
that we arent here to punish businesses, and this is reflected in the awards we make. 
Miss S said she had to pay for legal fees in relation to her children which, unfortunately, 
were taken away from her. I was very sorry to hear this and I hope that she does manage to 
resolve this dispute in the best way possible for her family. Nevertheless, without any 
evidence in support this isnt something I can ask Chase to compensate Miss S for. And 
even if I had evidence relating to the fees, I dont think that this is an expense that was the 
direct result of Chases actions i.e. of Chase placing a block on the account. This seems 
more like a family dispute which doesnt relate to Chase. 
Miss S also said that she had to have treatment for her hair due to the stress this situation 
was causing her. I appreciate it was very stressful and it is something that came across in 
her calls with Chase. But, again, this isnt a loss that I am minded to make an award for 
because I dont think it was a reasonably foreseeable result of Chases actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. J.P. Morgan Europe Limited 
trading as Chase must pay Miss S back her £900 plus 8% interest per year simple from the 
date payment was received to the date it pays her. It should also pay 8% interest per year 
simple on the funds it refunded to Miss S from 1 February 2023 (being the day after Miss S 
provided proof of entitlement) to the date the funds were refunded. It must also pay Miss S 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024. 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman