DRN-2730482
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim she made 
under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a battery 
storge system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In or around January 2018, Mrs M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
T to discuss purchasing a battery storge system to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative from T at her home, Mrs M decided to purchase the system with a 
seven-year fixed sum loan from Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni). The system 
was subsequently installed at her home. Mrs M says that T told her that they were part of the 
Energy Saving Trust (EST). 
In November 2018, Mrs M, via her representative, made a claim under section 75 of the 
CCA to Omni. Mrs M said what T had told her about them being part of the EST was a 
misrepresentation, and this misrepresentation induced her to enter into the contract with T. 
Mrs M also said T breached their contract with her by installing the product within the 14-day 
cancellation period. Mrs M also complained that Omni hadnt carried out an affordability 
assessment to show she had the disposable income to afford the monthly payments and that 
she was vulnerable at the time of sale.
When making the section 75 claim to Omni, Mrs M provided the order form for the system, 
the invoice, and a copy of the credit agreement.
In its claim response Omni said they had contacted T for their recollections of the sale. T, via 
Omni, said that they wouldnt have told Mrs M they were part of the EST and that they did 
make an assessment on Mrs Ms vulnerability. They also said Mrs Ms cancellation rights 
werent taken away but that she signed a request to have the battery installed within the 14-
day cooling off period. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs M referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. She didnt think thered been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract by T. She also felt, based on the absence of 
further evidence from Mrs M, that Omni had carried out reasonable checks when lending to 
Mrs M. 
Mrs M, via her representative, didnt accept the investigators findings. In response the 
representative said:
T portrayed themselves as the EST and this was a clear misrepresentation
T breached the Consumer Protection Regulations by getting Mrs M to sign the 
express installation waiver.
Mrs M does not remember giving any information about income and expenditure to T 
or Omni.
T told Mrs M that the solar battery would save her money and maintain her FIT 
payments, which was also a clear misrepresentation.
Mrs Ms battery system is not working and so the product is not fit for purpose.
Our investigator considered these further points but didnt think they changed her view. 
However, she did explain to Mrs Ms representative that the points about T telling her the 
battery would save her money and maintain her FIT payments and the system not working 
hadnt been raised as part of this complaint. This meant that we couldnt comment on them 
further and Mrs M would need to speak to Omni directly to make a new complaint about 
these issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or service bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan, Omni agrees that s75 applies to the 
transaction. This means that Mrs M could claim against Omni  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by T in the same way she could have claimed 
against the T, the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs M and T, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by T as an agent of Omni.
I have noted that some of the issues Mrs M has raised with regards to Ts actions or 
omissions dont relate to misrepresentation or breach of contract under s75 of the CCA, so I 
am limited in looking at only what Omnis responsibilities would have been as the lender of 
Mrs Ms loan.
Misrepresentation
Mrs M has said that T told her they were part of the EST and its this misrepresentation that 
induced her into the contract for the battery storage system. I do note that Mrs M has made 
further allegations with regards to the misrepresentations made by T but as our investigator 
has explained they didnt form part of this complaint and therefore, I wont be commenting on 
them further.
Omni said that they were unable to comment on what was discussed between Mrs M and T, 
but T told them that they wouldnt have told Mrs M that they were part of the EST. 
As both parties disagree with what was said, Ive looked at the relevant documentation to 
help inform what I think most likely happened, on the balance of probabilities. The key documents are those which Mrs M would have seen before agreeing to enter into the 
contract with T: the contract, the customer charter, and the customer safeguarding checklist. 
None of these documents suggest that T was part of the EST. Ive also noticed that these 
documents all state Ts full name (including its trading name) and company information. 
I appreciate Mrs Ms and her representatives strength of feeling but, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im not satisfied that there is sufficient enough to persuade me that there was a 
misrepresentation regarding T using ESTs name.
Breach of contract
Ive moved on to look at whether Ts breached their contract with Mrs M by her by installing 
the product within the 14-day cancellation period. Ive looked at the Express Request for 
Work to Commence document that Mrs M signed and can see it says:
By signing and returning this document you are providing your agreement in writing to 
enable us to commence work within the cancellation period which starts when the customer 
signs the contract and ends 14-days after all of the goods relating to the contract are 
delivered to the customer's home.
It goes on to say:
I/We understand that signing this document does not affect my/our right to cancel the 
contract in the cancellation period which starts when I/we sign the contract and ends 14-
days after all of the goods relating to the contract are delivered to my/our home.
Mrs M, via her representative, has said that she had her cancellation rights taken away from 
her, but having read this document it clearly states that Mrs Ms rights to cancel are not 
affected, therefore, I dont think there was any breach of contract here.
Omnis affordability assessment  
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
In summary, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the affordability circumstances 
of this complaint, I need to think about whether Omni completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M would be able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way. If they did carry out reasonable checks, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If they didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs M could 
sustainably repay the borrowing? 
Omni has told us that at the time of sale Mrs M had told them that she was retired and had 
an income of around £30,000 a year. Theyve provided us with evidence to show that Mrs 
Ms application was measured against a number of rules and her credit file checked to see 
what her other financial commitments were. They said on this basis they believe Mrs M had 
a sufficient amount of disposable income to meet the monthly repayment. Omni also 
provided our service with Mrs Ms account history showing that shed made all repayments 
on time.
So it seems possible that Omni did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, but in 
any case, if they didnt we would need to look at Mrs Ms circumstances at the time the credit 
agreement was taken out to see if she could have sustainably repaid the borrowing. Further evidence was requested from Mrs Ms representative to enable this service to fully 
understand Mrs Ms financial position, however, this evidence wasnt forthcoming. And 
although Mrs M has said she doesnt recall talking to Omni or T about her income, theres 
been no suggestion that any of the information they had about her financial circumstances 
was incorrect.
So, overall, and having carefully considered everything, while its possible that Omnis 
checks may not have gone far enough, because we didnt receive evidence or testimony 
from Mrs M about her financial circumstances at the time of sale, I cant say that further 
checks would have prevented Omni from entering into the agreement with Mrs M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I am not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman