DRN-2909431
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way that Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Capital 
Vehicle Solutions, has dealt with the cancellation of a hire agreement under which a car had 
been supplied to him.
 What happened
Mr N electronically signed a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital in March 2021 for a new car 
to be supplied to him  and it was delivered to his home 16 days after hed entered into the 
agreement. The agreement was entered into at a distance and he didnt visit the dealer. He 
says that he wrote to Hitachi Capital to exercise his right under The Consumer Contracts 
(Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (which I shall refer to 
as the regulations) to cancel the agreement the day after the car was delivered to him.
Hitachi Capital didnt agree that he had a right to cancel the agreement but it was agreed 
that the dealer would buy the car from Hitachi Capital, Hitachi Capital would cancel the 
agreement and Mr N would pay the dealer £5,000. Mr N paid the dealer £5,000, the car was 
collected from him and his agreement was cancelled. 
Mr N had complained to Hitachi Capital but it said that the provisions in the regulations about 
cancellation dont apply to car hire agreements and that the cancellation period ends 14 
days after the day on which the contract is entered into. Mr N then complained to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
contract was a service contract meaning that the cancellation period had expired before 
Mr N told Hitachi Capital that hed like to end the agreement so he was unable to ask it to 
take any further action.
Mr N has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that:
the regulations require Hitachi Capital to provide a model cancellation form and no 
such form was provided so the cancellation period was extended;
the regulations say: Before the consumer is bound by a distance contract, the trader 
 if a right to cancel exists, must give or make available to the consumer a 
cancellation form as set out in part B of Schedule 3;
he hasnt received a copy of the contract which has been fully executed and dated by 
Hitachi Capital so is unsure when the contract was actually fully executed and if it 
was entered into it the day following his signature or later, that would impact the 
expiry of the cancellation period; and
the contract was for the use of a car and he wasnt able to use it until it was supplied 
to him so the contract cant have become effective until the car was delivered to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Although we do take account of applicable law and regulations, we also 
consider the overall situation, so its possible that a court would reach a different outcome to 
the decision that Ive made. 
Although the agreement said that it wasnt cancellable under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the regulations apply to the hire agreement 
because Mr N entered into it at a distance and didnt visit the dealer. 
The regulations say that: a service contract means a contract, other than a sales contract, 
under which a trader supplies or agrees to supply a service to a consumer and the consumer 
pays or agrees to pay the price; and a sales contract means a contract under which a 
trader transfers or agrees to transfer the ownership of goods to a consumer and the 
consumer pays or agrees to pay the price, including any contract that has both goods and 
services as its object.
There was no transfer of ownership of the car under the hire agreement as it continued to be 
owned by Hitachi Capital while it was hired to Mr N and he was required to return it at the 
end of the hire period. I consider that the hire agreement is a service contract and not a 
sales contract. The regulations says If the contract is  a service contract  the 
cancellation period ends at the end of 14 days after the day on which the contract is entered 
into.
Mr N electronically signed the hire agreement on a specified date in March 2021 and the 
agreement has also been signed by Hitachi Capital but the space for the date of the 
signatures has been left blank. Hitachi Capital says that the agreement was entered into on 
the date that it was signed by Mr N but he says that if Hitachi Capital entered into the 
agreement the day following his signature or later, that would impact the expiry of the 
cancellation period. 
In complaints like this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Although theres no clear evidence to show when the agreement was signed on behalf of 
Hitachi Capital, I consider it to be more likely than not that the agreement was entered into 
on the date that it was electronically signed by Mr N. Im not persuaded that theres any 
evidence to show that the agreement was entered into by Hitachi Capital at a later date than 
that. 
The cancellation period would have ended at the end of 14 days after that  but Mr N didnt 
contact Hitachi Capital to try to cancel the agreement until the sixteenth day after hed 
electronically signed the hire agreement. By then I consider that any right that he might have 
had to cancel the agreement would have ended. Mr N wouldnt have been able to use the 
car until after it was delivered to him but for I consider that the hire agreement is a service 
agreement and Im not persuaded that any cancellation period under the regulations would 
begin when the car was delivered to him. 
Mr N says that the regulations also say that Before the consumer is bound by a distance 
contract, the trader  if a right to cancel exists, must give or make available to the consumer 
a cancellation form as set out in part B of Schedule 3. Mr N says that he wasnt provided 
with a cancellation form and, as Hitachi Capital says that he didnt have the right to cancel the agreement, I consider it to be unlikely that it would have provided him with a cancellation 
form. But even if I accept that Hitachi Capital was in breach of the regulations by not 
providing him with a cancellation form, Im not persuaded that its failure to provide him with a 
cancellation form extends any applicable cancellation period under the regulations. 
Mr N was able to contact Hitachi Capital the day after the car was delivered to him to say 
that he wanted to cancel the agreement. Im not persuaded that his ability to communicate 
his intention to cancel the hire agreement has been adversely impacted by a cancellation 
form not being provided to him.
Hitachi Capital says that the provisions of the regulations about cancellation dont apply to 
car hire agreements. The regulations say that the parts relating to cancellation dont apply 
 to the supply of vehicle rental services  if the contract provides for a specific date or 
period of performance. As its my decision that Mr Ns complaint shouldnt be upheld for the 
reasons set out above, it hasnt been necessary for me to consider whether or not the 
regulations about cancellation apply to car hire agreements. 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Hitachi 
Capital to reimburse Mr N for the £5,000 that he paid to the dealer, to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman