DRN-4055973
The complaint
Mr K has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a transaction he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr Ks mobile banking was used to pay £8,000 to a third party.
Mr K said he didnt authorise this payment. He explained hed been at a bar, had been using 
his phone, and had spoken to a man for some time. Eventually, the man hugged him and 
then left in a hurry. Mr K then noticed hed been pickpocketed, but the man had gone and 
security wouldnt help. He reported this to the police and replaced his phone, passport, and 
drivers licence. He tried to phone HSBC a number of times but they were always busy, and 
when he finally got through he found out about the transfer. Mr K explained hed kept his 
online banking security details on a notes app on his phone, but he hadnt thought the 
fraudster would be able to access it as his phone was protected with a passcode.
HSBC held Mr K liable for the payment in dispute. They felt this was a police matter. They 
didnt see how a thief couldve accessed Mr Ks mobile banking, they pointed out that Mr K 
had rung them from his usual number, and they said the bar in question was usually closed 
that night of the week. They said Mr K had been grossly negligent in his delay in reporting 
things to them. They paid Mr K £50 compensation in relation to his calls.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They could see 
how a thief might have watched Mr K entering his phones passcode, then stolen the phone 
and accessed his mobile banking using the record of the security details. They said since 
Mr Ks phone was passcode-protected, he didnt quite meet the bar of gross negligence in 
keeping a record of his security details on his phone.
HSBC didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr K and HSBC a provisional decision on 15 March 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
HSBC argue that this is a police matter. But HSBC are required to refund unauthorised 
payments, so this is a matter for HSBC as well.
HSBC say the transfer was authenticated using Mr Ks phone and online banking security 
details. But this is not enough, on its own, for HSBC to hold Mr K liable  they also need to 
be able to evidence that Mr K consented to the transaction, or that he failed to keep his 
account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence. Otherwise, HSBC 
have to refund the transaction.
Theres a reasonable point of compromise for Mr Ks security details. He kept a record of 
them on his phone, and his phone was stolen. Hed used his phone at the bar, and it was 
possible for the thief to have watched him enter the passcode. Shoulder surfing is a known 
technique for fraudsters. 
I am reasonably satisfied that Mr K really was pickpocketed, and that his phone was stolen. 
He has evidenced that he bought a replacement phone later that day, that he also replaced 
his passport and drivers licence, that he had to reset his Apple ID, and that he reported it as 
stolen to the police and Action Fraud. I can see that the person using his phone tried to 
access other accounts, some successfully, and those other businesses have accepted this 
was fraud. The police have also taken this on as a crime, identified a suspect, and 
conducted interviews, with a view to pursuing charges. Further, Mr Ks testimony has been 
credible and plausible, and Ive found no good reason to doubt him about this.
HSBC argued that the bar was usually closed on that night of the week. But while I see why 
they thought this, they are mistaken. I can see that bar often changes which nights its open 
on. And I can see that on the night in question, Mr K made payments at that bar on his other 
account, so Im satisfied he was really there.
HSBC pointed out that there were some hours between when the phone was stolen and the 
disputed payment. But again, while I understand their point, the fraudster would not have 
known that Mr Ks security details were written in an app. So its very plausible that they 
simply didnt find those details at first. Once they found the details, I can see that they 
drained Mr Ks account of the vast majority of funds, sending it to a third partys external 
account, from which I understand no funds remain, indicating they moved the funds on 
further. Thats consistent with what Id expect from a fraudster.
HSBC also pointed out that Mr K rang them from his usual number. But I can see from his 
other account and his store receipt that he replaced his phone before that call. It is normal 
that his carrier would restore his usual number and disable the old SIM.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which makes it seem most likely that Mr K authorised the 
disputed payment.
So I do not think HSBC can hold Mr K liable on the basis of the payment being authorised.
Ive also considered whether Mr K acted with gross negligence, or intentionally failed to keep 
his account safe. I certainly think Mr K was negligent in keeping a record of his online 
banking security details  and he should make sure not to do this again in future, now he 
knows what could happen.
But gross negligence is a much higher standard than normal negligence. It involves a very 
serious disregard to an obvious risk. Here, Mr Ks phone and notes app were protected by a 
passcode only he knew, and I doubt hed have expected someone to watch him enter it then 
pickpocket him. So I can see why he might have thought that the record of his security 
details was safe enough. And so I dont think Mr K acted in a way reckless enough that it 
quite meets the bar of gross negligence or an intentional failure to keep his account safe.Ive also considered whether there was an undue delay in Mr K reporting things. But as 
above, I can see why he might have initially thought his HSBC account was OK. And HSBC 
havent been able to show when Mr K first tried to report things  so its not clear what delay 
there was, if any. The earliest call recording HSBC could provide was only a few hours after 
the disputed payment, and during the call its acknowledged that Mr K had spoken to HSBC 
about this matter at least once before that. Mr K states hed spent hours trying to get through 
to HSBC, and HSBC appear to acknowledge he had issues calling them as they paid him 
compensation for his calls. Im not satisfied that there was an undue delay here.
Taking into account everything thats been provided so far, Im not persuaded that Mr K 
consented to the disputed transaction, or that he failed to keep his account secure either 
with intent or gross negligence. So I currently think that HSBC cannot hold him liable for the 
payment in dispute.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
29 March 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K accepted the provisional decision.
HSBC didnt respond to the provisional decision. They did forward an online banking log 
wed previously requested, though this didnt end up showing anything of note  mainly that 
someone made the disputed payment using Mr Ks stolen phone, then some days later Mr K 
started accessing his online banking using his new phone instead. That all seems consistent 
with what Mr K said happened.
Neither side sent me any other new evidence or arguments.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the 
same reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
refund the disputed transaction; and-
pay simple interest to Mr K on the transaction, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date it was last debited until the date its returned. This is to 
compensate Mr K for the time his money was missing.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this simple interest. HSBC must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman