DRN-4331522
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) allowed a third party to take out a personal 
loan in his name without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr H is being represented by Mrs S in bringing this complaint.
What happened
In December 2016, Zopa received and approved a loan application for £2,000 in Mr Hs 
name. The funds were paid into his personal current account with a high street bank and 
repayments were made from the same account via a direct debit until the loan was fully 
repaid in December 2019.
In 2021, Mr H contacted Zopa and said that he didnt take out this loan. He said that 
unbeknownst to him, his partner at the time had applied for it and then transferred the funds 
out of his current account. Mr H also said his ex-partner withheld his current account 
statements for several years and he didnt know about this loan (and other loans) until 2021, 
when he requested a few years worth of statements from his bank. 
Zopa said it didnt do anything wrong and refused to refund the repaid amount. Mr H 
complained and subsequently referred the matter to our service. Our investigator thought 
that on balance it was plausible that Mr Hs ex-partner could have applied for the loan. But 
they werent satisfied that Mr H was unaware of the loan funds being paid into his account, 
or that he didnt benefit from them. So, they concluded that Zopa didnt need to do anything 
to resolve this complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She questioned how the loan could 
have been approved without Mr Hs consent in the form of a physical signature. The 
investigator explained that the loan was applied for electronically and approved following 
online verification, So, no further information or documentation was requested. They also 
said that it wasnt unusual for acceptance of the agreements terms to be confirmed via an 
electronic signature. 
Mrs S has asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn that Mr H has gone through a difficult time over the last few years. Its 
understandable that he and Mrs S feel very strongly about this complaint. So, Id like to start 
by reassuring all parties that although Ive only summarised the background to the 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or has been argued is mentioned, I have 
considered everything thats been submitted in its entirety. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H and his representative have told us about Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time and his relationship with his ex-partner. But Im also aware that 
another loan  taken out with Mr Hs current account provider  which was initially disputed 
as being fraudulent around the same time as this loan with Zopa was disputed, has since 
been discovered to have been genuine. So, theres a possibility that Mr H might be 
misremembering what happened at the time this loan was taken out. 
Mr H says he didnt apply for this loan with Zopa. I cant know for certain what did happen at 
the time. What is clear though is that the loan funds were paid into Mr Hs account, and they 
were spent from his account in the usual way (pre-existing pattern of spending). Also, the 
loan was fully repaid in 2019 from that account from his income. 
That means theres no outstanding debt that Zopa needs to recover from Mr H. What I 
therefore need to decide here is whether its fair to tell Zopa to refund the payments that 
have already been made. 
Application
An online application was submitted in Mr Hs name using his employment details, as well as 
his income and expenditure details. Zopa says it electronically verified the information that 
was submitted, including carrying out a credit check. The application met its lending criteria, 
and the funds were paid into an account in Mr Hs sole name. In my view, theres nothing 
about the application that ought to have led Zopa to question whether Mr H was indeed the 
application. 
Mr Hs representative has questioned how an application can be approved without the 
applicants physical signature. But many financial businesses, including lenders, have 
moved to paperless applications and its become common practice for applications to be 
submitted and verified electronically. This is what happened here. As the information was 
verified successfully and the funds were requested to be paid into Mr Hs account (and not a 
third party), I dont find Zopa acted unreasonably here by not contacting him to discuss his 
application further or insisting on a physical signature. 
The email address Zopa says it held in relation to the loan does appear to belong to Mr Hs 
ex-partner. The first part of the email address (username) includes his ex-partners name. 
But this doesnt automatically mean that Mr H didnt apply for the loan or that he wasnt 
aware of it or consented to it. 
Utilisation of funds
Ive looked at the transactions on Mr Hs current account during the relevant period to see 
how the loan funds were spent. Typically, funds obtained from a fraudulent loan are removed 
by the fraudster immediately. But this isnt what happened here. The funds werent moved 
out of Mr Hs account immediately. Only a proportion of the loan funds (around £750) were 
sent to his ex-partners account, and this was over several transactions for insignificant 
amounts over the course of the following month. This pattern of several transactions to 
Mr Hs ex-partner spread across the month existed for a long time  way before the loan was 
paid in. So, it might be that Mr H would have made those payments anyway, using his 
income rather than the loan funds. 
Whats more, the majority of the loan funds were utilised through day-to-day spending 
including cash withdrawals. These transactions havent been disputed by Mr H. I find it 
strange that a third party would allow majority of the fraudulently obtained funds to be used by the customer themselves. This also means that majority of the funds were utilised by 
Mr H. So, hes had the benefit of the loan funds.
Summary
As Ive mentioned, Zopa received payments towards the outstanding balance and the loan 
has now been repaid in full. We also know that those payments came from Mr Hs account. 
While I dont fully know the circumstances in which this loan was obtained, the funds were: 
paid into Mr Hs account; spent from his account in the usual way of his day-to-day 
spending; and repaid from his account from is income. I cant see that the loan was ever in 
arrears. 
Having carefully weighed up everything, I cant fairly conclude that Zopa did anything wrong 
here. It follows that it wouldnt be fair to ask it to refund the payments three years after the 
loan was paid off. 
I realise that this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr H and his representative, 
not least because the matter has been ongoing for some time. But for the reasons set out 
above, I wont be directing Zopa to take any action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman