DRN-1595305
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled his accounts following fraudulent 
activity on them. 
What happened
Mr M has savings accounts and a current account with Santander. In June 2019 Mr M's 
details were updated, following a call to the bank which appears not to have come from him. 
After that, £1,800 was transferred from his savings to his current account and a payment of 
£2,198 was made from his current account. 
Mr M told Santander that he hadn't been responsible for the transfers or the payment. 
Santander accepted that he wasn't; it blocked his accounts, refunded the £2,198 to his 
current account and ordered replacement cards and PINs. In error, the bank ordered new 
PINs for both Mr M's old and replacement cards; it made a payment of £250 to compensate 
for its mistake.
Mr M felt however that he'd lost his savings, because the money wasn't placed back in those 
accounts. He asked us to look at what had happened and one of our investigators did that. 
The investigator thought however that the bank had treated Mr M fairly. Mr M didn't agree 
and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M was frustrated that he was unable to use his accounts for a short 
time after the fraud. However, I don't think it was unreasonable of Santander to place blocks 
on those accounts while it investigated what had happened and to protect them for further 
attempts at fraud. I note that Mr M was still able to use his credit card and his business 
account. 
Clearly, the bank shouldn't have ordered new PINs for his old cards, but it's apologised for 
that and paid compensation. I think that's fair.
And Mr M hasn't lost any money as a result of the fraud. All the money taken from his 
accounts was returned to his current account, from where the money moved from his 
savings account could be transferred back.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr M's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman