DRN-4342084
The complaint
Ms F has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc. She isnt happy about its 
decision to close her local branch. 
What happened
Ms F is unhappy that Nat West made the decision to close her local branch. And she is also 
unhappy that the branch it suggested using in the future didnt open on a Saturday. Nat West 
provided information about alternative local banking services, like cash machines and 
branches of the Post Office amongst other things including suggestions of alternative ways 
of banking. And it gave details of other branches within a few miles of the one it was closing. 
Ms F complained to Nat West about her local branch closure. She started a petition to stop 
the branch closing and she didnt feel it conducted a proper consultation about the closure of 
her branch. Nat West explained the background to its decision to Ms F and gave details of 
the information it had taken into account when reaching its decision to close the branch, but 
it didnt believe it had acted unfairly. But as Ms F remained unhappy she complained to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms F, but she didnt uphold her complaint. She 
thought Nat West had provided details about other branches, outlined alternative banking 
arrangements and she thought Nat West had given reasonable notice of the proposed bank 
closure in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance. And she explained to 
Ms F that this Service couldnt tell Nat West how to conduct its business or not to close a 
branch. 
As Ms F didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Ms F given how disappointing she found it to have her local branch closed. 
I think its important to explain to Ms F that this Service cant fine or punish a business and 
as our investigator explained we cant tell a business how it should operate or interfere with 
its commercial decisions. And we can only consider a consumers complaint individually. I 
know Ms F has made representation for the wider community as she sees it, but I cant 
consider that. If I tell a business to take action to correct a mistake, the settlement will be 
customer focused, taking into account any financial losses theyve experienced, and 
unreasonable levels of distress and inconvenience caused. Details about the basis on which 
we operate can be found on our website and within the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) 
which is set out in the FCAs Handbook. 
Ms F didnt agree with the investigator and said Nat West hadnt followed the correct 
consultative process and ignored her petitions against the branch closure. And Ms F 
highlighted that she was making her complaint on behalf of others in the community who she 
felt were impacted by the branch closure. 
Ms F provided us with details of her petition, and I understand her position that the branch 
closure impacts the wider community and wider groups. But, in terms of our rules and the 
basis on which we consider complaints, I can only look at Ms Fs complaint individually and 
how Nat Wests actions have impacted her.
Ms Fs only eligible to refer a complaint to us concerning her relationship with the bank. 
Theres no scope within the rules we operate under to deal with complaints from a group of 
customers. That means Im not going to comment more widely about the impact of Nat 
Wests decision to close her local branch. Im going to focus on how Nat Wests decision 
impacted Ms F.
I know Ms F wanted us to stop Nat West shutting the now closed branch. But businesses are 
free to act in line with their commercial discretion, provided its taken proper steps before 
and after closure and reassured consumers that it had given proper consideration and 
thought to its decision. The FCA issued guidance known as Branch and ATM closures or 
conversions and the guidance sets out the steps a business should follow, including details 
of assessments it should publish concerning any decision made. The guidance says 
customers should be given advance warning about any proposed branch closure and 
information about alternatives should be provided.
I understand from the information Nat West and Ms F has provided that the decision was 
driven by a fall in branch transactions at this location, a rise in online or mobile banking with 
customers and alternative banking arrangements available. I note Nat West provided details 
of another branch a few miles away that customers can visit, and its final response gave 
further details about what it took into account when reaching its decision. I know Ms F feels 
that this consultation process wasnt fully undertaken by Nat West and that all the parties 
identified werent consulted. But I havent seen any evidence to support this and, from the 
information before me, Im satisfied Nat West followed the relevant industry guidance when 
closing the branch in question.
Ms F gave us a lot of background concerning how the closure may impact people generally 
in the local community. I understand why Ms F has given us that information. But, as Ive 
outlined above, my focus is on whether the decision to close Ms Fs local branch unfairly 
impacted her individually.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms F as I can see how strongly she feels about this matter. But I 
havent been persuaded Nat Wests decision was unfair. Im satisfied it communicated its 
decision to Ms F with reasonable notice and explained the basis on which its branch would 
close. And Im satisfied Nat West provided information regarding alternative branches and 
other banking options available in line with the industry guidance.
Finally, I note Ms F isnt happy that the next nearest local branch Nat West suggested she 
use didnt open on Saturdays. Again, I can understand that this affected Ms Fs 
convenience, but a lot of bank branches dont open on a Saturday and, in line with what Ive 
already outlined above, I cant interfere with a banks commercial decision about this. Nat 
West has also explained a number of ways that Ms F can bank without the use of a branch, 
including telephone banking, online banking and the use of the Post Office which should 
help Ms F here. Given all of this, Im satisfied Nat West dealt with Ms Fs complaint fairly and Im not telling it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman