DRN-2539891
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here was 
just under a year old and had only completed about 4,179 miles. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect much wear and tear.
The relevant legislation says we should also consider whether the car has proven to be 
suitably durable when considering whether it has been of satisfactory quality.
I dont think this car has been suitably durable. I say that because it has suffered from 
persistent and variable issues since Mr G took receipt of it. Those issues include the 
replacement of the exhaust, a turbo and a drive shaft boot; persistent problems with the 
remote key recognition; a problem with the satellite navigation system; an oil leak and issues 
with the alignment of the sunroof blind. I dont think a reasonable person would think a car 
was durable if it had experienced so many problems in the first 8,500 miles and in the first 16 
months and I would agree with the investigator that BMWFS should therefore allow Mr G to 
reject the car and end the finance agreement.
I can see that when BMWFS provided their initial response about Mr Gs concerns with his 
car they agreed to supress five monthly finance instalments (equivalent to £3,075) to 
compensate him for the problems hed experienced. And, when Mr G experienced further 
problems they agreed with our investigators view that Mr G should be allowed to reject the 
car and cancel his finance agreement with them but that the £3,075 was sufficient to 
compensate him for the issues hed experienced.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators suggested redress. He wanted BMWFS to find a 
replacement car of an equivalent standard for him. 
So, Ill explain what I think about the redress that should be provided.
Putting things right
When we ask a business to allow a consumer to reject a car we will usually ask them to 
collect the car, end the finance agreement, refund any deposit and compensate the 
consumer for any distress, inconvenience or loss of enjoyment. We may also ask them to 
refund some finance instalments in respect of the lack of use a consumer has had from a 
vehicle.
It would be unusual for us to ask a business to replace a car without their consent. Here I 
think it would be unreasonable to ask BMWFS to provide Mr G with a suitable replacement 
vehicle. They are a finance business and, whilst they may have associations with 
dealerships, I dont think it would be fair to say they have expertise in supplying motor 
vehicles or an ability to scan the market for suitable alternatives. And, even if they were 
willing to attempt to source an alternative vehicle, I dont think there is any guarantee they 
could find one, at an equivalent price and of an acceptable standard for Mr G. 
So, Im not asking BMWFS to source an alternative car. 
But I do think they should allow Mr G to reject the vehicle, end his agreement with them and 
collect the car at no cost to him.
Hes been significantly inconvenienced by the frequent visits hes had to make to the 
dealership to have his car attended to. There have been problems that remained unresolved 
for some time and hes needed the car to be recovered when a safety issue was identified 
with a loose drive shaft. Mr G has explained in depth how important a car is to him and his 
wife and how they enjoy road trips. I think its clear his enjoyment would have been impacted 
by the unreliability of the vehicle. Mr G has also not been able to use the car when its been 
in for repairs. In those circumstances, however; I can see that the business has provided 
courtesy cars to keep Mr G mobile; albeit not of the same calibre of the car he was financing. 
Overall, taking into account the distress, inconvenience, loss of enjoyment and lack of use 
Mr G has experienced I think the suppression of five monthly finance instalments is 
reasonable compensation for these issues. Im not asking BMWFS to provide any further 
redress.
BMWFS have explained that there was no deposit paid by Mr G and the finance agreement 
doesnt detail one. If Im wrong, and a deposit was paid, Im asking BMWFS to reimburse it 
and to add 8% interest to that refund as it will have been money Mr G will have been 
deprived of. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
allow Mr G to reject the car and collect it at no cost to him;
end the finance agreement;
refund any deposit that may have been paid and add 8% simple interest per year to 
any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove the finance agreement from Mr Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman