DRN-4512745
The complaint
Mr K complains to Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (trading as Asset Link Capital (No. 7)) 
that the loan he had was lent irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K took out a loan and a credit card with NewDay. In July 2021, Asset Link Capital bought 
the loan account from NewDay and is now responsible for administering the loan. The 
complaint about the credit card is being considered separately, so this decision will focus 
purely on the loan.
Mr K borrowed £5,000 from NewDay on 6 March 2019 and needed to repay £120.34 per 
month for five years.
Mr K says that he was in a debt management plan at the time and had multiple defaults on 
his credit file. He says he is now in financial hardship and struggling to pay his priority bills.
Asset Link Capital says it has limited information about the checks NewDay carried out at 
the time but says Mr K was asked about income and expenditure and that information was 
obtained from credit agencies. It says that Mr K needed to have had a NewDay credit card 
that was up-to-date with repayments and that he met NewDays acceptance criteria for the 
loan.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that, in the 
absence of detailed information from NewDay, he looked at Mr Ks bank statements to see 
what proportionate checks were likely to have shown. He found that the loan was affordable 
and so he couldnt say that NewDay had acted unfairly by approving it.
Mr Ks wife, Mrs K, responded on his behalf to say that the complaint about the linked credit 
card had been upheld and shed like an ombudsmans review.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr K and to Asset Link Capital on 9 November 2023. 
Ive summarised my findings below:
oI considered NewDay should have ensured it had a thorough understanding of Mr Ks 
financial circumstances because the loan was for five years and NewDay needed to 
be sure the repayments were sustainable for that period. Also, the credit check was 
likely to have shown that Mr and Mrs K were already committed to spending about 
40% of their income on credit repayments;
oAs NewDay provided limited information about the checks it carried out I looked at 
Mr Ks bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for what proportionate 
checks were likely to have shown:
oI calculated that Mr and Mrs K were left with a small disposable income of 
around £280 each month after all their regular expenditure;
oHowever, I didnt consider the loan was sustainably affordable for them 
because it was for five years, and debt repayments took up over half their 
combined income. They had little money for unforeseen expenses, and I 
found there were other signs that the lending was irresponsible:
Mr K was already in a debt management plan;
Six new loans, totalling over £10,000, were taken out in the three 
months prior to the NewDay loan application - this included short-term 
and high cost lending;
Although some of the money was used to repay existing debt, this still 
left Mr and Mrs K having to commit a significant percentage of their 
income to credit repayments;
There were small, but numerous, payments to a gambling site totalling 
over £150 per month leading up to the loan and this figure increased 
following the lending.
In summary, based on the above, I didnt find the lending decision was fair, but I havent 
seen any evidence to show either NewDay, or Asset Link Capital, behaved unreasonably in 
any other way.
Mrs K, on behalf of Mr K, responded to say he accepted the provisional decision and had no 
additional information. 
Asset Link Capital did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from the 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (trading as 
Asset Link Capital (No. 7)) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest, calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*. Asset Link Capital 
should also remove adverse information about this loan from Mr Ks credit file;
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Asset Link Capital should try 
to arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr K. Once Mr K has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Asset Link Capital to deduct tax from this interest. Asset 
Link Capital should give Mr K a certificate showing the tax its deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman