DRN-4189562
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly defaulted his loan 
account.
What happened
Mr B says Nationwide issued a default notice on his loan account in February 2022, despite 
him requesting a change in his monthly payment date to coincide with his salary date. 
Additionally, Mr B says Nationwide showed no empathy for his personal situation which had 
meant he was overseas with a family bereavement and work commitments and wouldnt 
have received any written notices of arrears. Mr B feels Nationwide have acted harshly by 
defaulting his loan and marking his credit file which will affect his credit worthiness for six 
years. 
Mr B wants Nationwide to apologise for the poor service and to remove the default on his 
credit file and return the debt back from the debt collection agents and agree to the new 
monthly payment date over its remaining term. 
Nationwide says it has followed the correct procedures in defaulting the loan and passing the 
debt to the collection agents. Nationwide says when it issued the default notice Mr B was 
two months in arrears and it was passed to debt collection agents as it no longer deals with 
collections in house. Nationwide says it attempted to contact Mr B by phone to make him 
aware of the arrears position. Nationwide also says it has no record of his request to amend 
the payment date to his loan account. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Mr B had missed several payments to the loan account, following a rewrite in 
October 2020 and missed a monthly repayment in November 2021. The investigator says 
Nationwide sent communications regarding the arrears on the loan and despite Mr B being 
out of the country, it was his responsibility to make sure his loan repayments were made on 
time. The investigator felt Nationwide had acted fairly when defaulting Mr Bs loan account.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B to have received a default notice on 
his loan account when he believed he had made attempts to meet his monthly loan 
payments. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide acted reasonably when it 
defaulted Mr Bs loan account when it did. 
Nationwides position here is that Mr B was two months in arrears when it issued the default 
notice to Mr B in February 2022 and that it had issued the correct notice of arrears 
previously to him. Additionally, Nationwide says Mr B had been late with other payments 
prior to the default being issued. Nationwide says it was correct to issue the default in writing 
to Mr B and it had tried other means to contact him. Nationwide says Mr B had been made 
aware of the arrears position and suggests it was Mr Bs responsibility to maintain his 
contractual monthly payments (CMP), even when he was overseas. 
The first thing to say here is that Nationwide are correct in saying it did issue the arrears and 
default notices in writing and that is what I would expect to see here, and it cant be held 
responsible for the fact Mr B was not available to receive such notices. Its also reasonable 
to say that Mr B remains responsible for ensuring his CMP are met. 
Having said that there are some concerns I have over the timing and reasons why Mr Bs 
loan was defaulted when it was. Its important to say that issuing a default notice and the 
consequences of this being marked on a credit file has long term financial implications for 
consumers, so I would expect lenders to ensure that consumers personal financial 
circumstances are fully considered, and they are given sufficient opportunity to put matters 
right  here Im not fully persuaded Nationwide did. 
I say this because firstly when Mr Bs loan was re-written in October 2020, following a Covid 
payment holiday, he was making the CMP on the fifteenth of every month. Following this the 
loan seems to have been rescheduled with the CMP on the first of every month. Its from 
here or shortly after the problems begin and there are a number of occasions where the 
CMP were made late. From the information I have seen, from October 2020 to February 
2022 while some payments were late, Mr B had only actually missed making November 
2021s CMP. What happened here was a default notice was issued on 2 February 2022 
having missed the payment due on the first of that month, but Mr B made this up by making 
the payment on the 15 February 2022.
While technically Mr B was two months in arrears at that time, it followed a similar pattern 
before and importantly here Mr B telephoned Nationwide that month asking for them to 
change the payment date. Nationwide seemingly werent prepared to do this until Mr B made 
up his arrears position, however, this refusal led to Nationwide registering a default on Mr 
Bs credit file the following month, at which time Mr B had only actually missed one monthly 
payment in November 2021. 
As I have previously said issuing a default on a consumers credit file will have detrimental 
financial implications for six years and considering the individual circumstances here, I am 
not persuaded that was the correct course of action to take. It was clear Mr B was looking for 
support mainly over the timing of the payments and while Nationwide felt he should bring his 
arrears up to date first, that has led to the defaulting of the loan. In normal circumstances I 
wouldnt expect to see a default issued and registered until 3- 6 monthly payments had been 
missed, so I feel Nationwide have acted a little too quickly here. Afterall, apart from one 
monthly payment being missed, Mr B had been making monthly payments, albeit on some 
occasions later than the due date, I am satisfied that in itself shouldnt be a reason to default 
the loan here. 
With that in mind, I propose Nationwide should remove the default from Mr Bs credit file, 
take back the loan from the debt collection agency and hold a discussion with Mr B to set up 
an affordable payment plan, with a mutually agreed payment date. While Nationwide will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome 
here. 
Both Mr B and Nationwide responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr B and Nationwide until 29 June 2023 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. 
Both Mr B and Nationwide have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no need to 
change or add to my provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same.  
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file, take back 
the loan from the debt collection agency and hold a discussion with Mr B to set up an 
affordable payment plan, with a mutually agreed payment date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to remove the default from Mr Bs credit file, take back 
the loan from the debt collection agency and hold a discussion with Mr B to set up an 
affordable payment plan, with a mutually agreed payment date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman