DRN-3551227
The complaint
Ms C complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) rejecting 
a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment to her dog, because it was overweight.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Ms C had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with CG, taken out in March 2020. In 
June 2021 the dog experienced a problem with its leg and, after being taken to a vet, it was 
diagnosed as having a cruciate ligament rupture. The vet carried out an operation to treat 
the rupture, at a total cost of £1,956.
Ms C made a claim covering the cost of treatment, but CG declined the claim, saying the 
dog was overweight. CG referred to the policy not covering a condition where a pet had 
been deemed overweight and had a condition associated with being overweight. CG referred 
to the weight of Ms Cs dog at various times between 2019 and 2021, together with its Body 
Condition Score (BCS).
Unhappy at the rejection of her claim, Ms C complained. But CG didnt uphold her complaint. 
In their final response they said when she took out her policy, the terms and conditions made 
it clear it wouldnt provide cover if a pet was overweight and had an associated condition. 
CG noted the dogs clinical history indicated it was slightly overweight in November 2015 
and (in September 2016) the vet advised weight loss. The dog was also recorded as 
overweight in 2019. CG went on to say that while the cause of a cruciate ligament rupture 
was multifactorial, the vertical force on the pets joints would be increased by the pet being 
overweight. CG also noted studies indicated that weight was one (of multiple) factors in 
cruciate ligament rupture. Based on this, CG confirmed their decline of Ms Cs claim.
Unhappy at CGs response, Ms C complained to this service. The main part of her complaint 
was that CG had unfairly declined her claim on the grounds it was overweight. She said this 
wasnt relevant to the condition and treatment of her dog, as the vets report stated. Having 
to pay for the (£1,956) cost of treatment was very distressing and causing her anxiety. She 
wanted CG to accept her claim and pay for the cost of treatment. She also thought CG 
should make clear which conditions they wouldnt cover on the grounds of the pet being 
overweight, so it was less ambiguous to consumers.
Our investigator upheld Ms Cs complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly by using the 
exclusion relating to a dog being overweight. She didnt think CG had explained what the 
definition of overweight was that the exclusion relied on. Nor did the dogs BSC recorded in 
2019 and 2020 meet CGs definition of being overweight. She also noted the vets view that 
the dogs weight hadnt been shown to be the underlying cause of the cruciate ligament 
rupture and that the dogs weight didnt have any bearing on the condition. As such, CG 
hadnt acted fairly in applying the exclusion to decline the claim. To put things right, the 
investigator thought CG should reassess the claim, without using the exclusion about the 
dogs weight to decline the claim. If CG accepted the claim after reassessment, they should 
pay interest from the date they originally declined the claim to the date accepted.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to several published sources about the link between 
 and impact of - a dogs weight on the risk of cruciate ligament rupture. They also attached 
additional evidence of the vet referring to the need for Ms Cs dog to lose weight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly towards Ms C.
 
The main issue in Ms Cs complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim by 
applying the policy exclusion for her dog being overweight. Ms C says CG acted unfairly in 
applying the exclusion, as the dogs weight wasnt relevant to the condition and treatment of 
her dog, as the vet who treated the dog stated. 
CG say it was fair to use the exclusion to decline Ms Cs claim. They refer, firstly, to the 
dogs clinical history which they say indicates it was overweight. They also say, secondly, 
that while the cause of a cruciate ligament rupture is multifactorial, the force on the dogs 
joints would be increased by being overweight. CG also refer to published studies about the 
link between  and impact of - a dogs weight on the risk of cruciate ligament rupture.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the vets statement and the clinical history of Ms Cs 
dog. Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, CG refer to the Insurance Product 
Information Document that states:
What is not insured?
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
 
The policy terms and conditions include a similar exclusion for Veterinary Fees as part of 
any claim for illness or accidental injury.
 
The first point to consider is whether Ms Cs dog was overweight. The dogs medical history 
indicates its weight has fluctuated between 8kg and 9kg from 2017 through to the ligament 
rupture in 2021. The BCS is variously recorded as 7/9 (2019) and 3.5/5 (also 2019). 6A 
report from Ms Cs vet states the same weight range, and a BCS of 6/9 (which they state is 
slightly above the ideal of 4-5/9, but that they do not consider the dog to be hugely 
overweight). Based on these points, I think its reasonable to conclude the dog was 
overweight  but not significantly so. 
The second point to consider is whether the dogs weight led to the ligament rupture and 
therefore whether it was reasonable for CG to apply the exclusion to decline the claim. As a 
general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus is on them to show its 
reasonable to apply it.
 
However, Im not persuaded CG acted fairly and reasonably in applying the overweight 
exclusion to decline this element of the claim. I say that because the policy wording above 
(my emphasis in bold) refers to claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the 
recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Given this wording, the onus is on CG to show the claim (treatment) was caused by the dog 
being overweight. CG say, while the cause of a cruciate ligament rupture is multifactorial, the 
force on the dogs joints would be increased by being overweight. CG also refer to published 
studies about the link between  and impact of - a dogs weight on the risk of cruciate 
ligament rupture. Ms C doesnt agree, pointing to her vets opinion. On balance, considering 
both views carefully together with the supporting evidence and information, Im persuaded by 
Ms Cs view (supported by her vet). Ill set out why Ive come to that view.
The vets report, after commenting on the dogs weight, goes on to state:
Cruciate [ligament] disease is a chronic condition whereby the fibres of the ligament 
gradually weaken and then will suddenly rupture at exercise. I do not consider [the 
dogs] weight to have any bearing on the progression of this diseaseHad [the dog] 
scored 8-9/9 on BCS, with a weight of say, 12kg, then weight may have played more 
of a factor in speed of progression of the disease.
I think, coming from the vet who treated Ms Cs dog (and therefore knows the dog better) 
this is persuasive. 
But Ive also considered the points made by CG, including the published sources theyve 
referred to. One of them notes that Obese dogs are four times more likely to rupture a 
cruciate than non-obese dogs. A second source refers to extra weight putting undue stress 
on the body (and refers to the same increased risk of ligament rupture). A third source refers 
to the two main causes of rupture being degeneration of the ligament (which accords with 
the statement from Ms Cs vet) and trauma (which can be the result of an athletic injury, 
even in a healthy dog). The latter is also consistent with Ms Cs vets statement that the 
ligament will have ruptured at exercise. 
Taking all these points into account, while being overweight will have been likely to increase 
the risk of ligament rupture, Im not persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the 
exclusion in the circumstances of this case. Particularly given the clear opinion from Ms Cs 
vet. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to decline Ms Cs claim.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for the dog being overweight, then they should 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including 
any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
 
If CG accept the claim following their reassessment, they should also pay interest at a rate of 
8% simple on the amount accepted, from the date of their original rejection of the claim, to 
the date they accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reassess Ms Cs claim for treatment of the cruciate ligament rupture in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of 
treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd accept the claim following their 
reassessment, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount accepted, 
from the date of their original rejection of the claim, to the date they accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman