DRN-4037273
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined a claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Bs dog has had a number of fatty lumps on his body. One was removed in Spring 2019 
and found to be a lipoma (a benign tumour).
Mrs B took out a pet insurance policy for her dog with HDI in February 2021. She took the 
dog to the vet in April 2022 when the vet found a lump on the dogs left back leg. The vet did 
some tests but the results were inconclusive. So the vet advised her to have the lump 
removed as it looked to them like a sarcoma (a malignant tumour). Fortunately, it turned out 
that it wasnt malignant but another lipoma.
Mrs B made a claim for the treatment. 
HDI said that as the diagnosis for both lumps was the same, they would be treated as one 
condition and considered as a pre-existing condition as a lipoma was first diagnosed in May 
2019 prior to the start of Mrs Bs policy. It said her policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
Mrs B provided evidence from her vet that the lump removed in May 2022 was not a typical 
lipoma as it was in a most unusual location for a lipoma. The vet said she thought at the 
time it could have been a sarcoma. HDI didnt change its decision.  
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought HDI 
had acted fairly in classing the lipoma as a pre-existing condition.
As Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. There is 
an exclusion in the policy for:
The recurrence or continuation of illness or disease from which your pet previously suffered 
arising prior to or within 14 days of the start of this insurance. 
The policy went on to explain how illnesses with multiple sites would be treated. It said:
For illnesses that can have multiple sites  we shall treat all occurrences of an illness as 
the same illness and apply just one vet fee limit and charge only one excess. This is the 
definition as to how benefits are provided under this policy of insurance if the condition 
diagnosis by your veterinary surgeon is the same as a previous condition, they will be 
treated as the same condition even if the problem is in a different part of your pets body. If 
your pet has a growth on the left ear which is subsequently found on the right ear, both will 
be treated in benefit terms as the one condition, benefit limits and the start date for the 
condition will be from the date that the left ear growth was found irrespective of the time 
difference between diagnoses. We will always treat the same diagnosis as one condition 
irrespective of when or where in your pets body the symptoms are found, even where the 
condition is diagnosed in different legs for the purpose of allocating benefits and deciding the 
start date for the condition it will be the date that the first symptom was diagnosed.
I think this exclusion was clear and drawn to Mrs Bs attention when she took out the policy. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for HDI to rely on it to decline the 
claim.
Looking at the dogs clinical history I see that in May 2019 the vet noted:
2cm mass mobile deep to skin lhs neck, would be hard to fna [remove some cells with a fine 
needle for examination], need to ga [general anaesthetic] and remove if can or go in and 
biopsy if cant successfully go from there.
The vet said the lump was diagnosed as a lipoma following removal surgically.
In April 2022 the vet reported:
lipoma like mass on rhs chest wall 1.5cm wide, wart like mass left flank. Also lower lh 
metatarsal medial, not well circumscribed, ? sarcoma. Adv ideally sedate for fna as may 
need referral for actual removal.
The mass was removed and the biopsy results showed that it was a lipoma.
As the dog had lipomas on both occasions, I think HDI was entitled to treat them as the 
same condition even though they were in different parts of the dogs body and the second 
lipoma didnt look like a typical lipoma. That means the start date for the condition was the 
date of the first lipoma which was before the policy started. It follows from that I think HDI 
was entitled to rely on the medical evidence provided by the vet to decline the claim on the 
ground that the dog had a pre-existing condition which wasnt covered by the policy.
I appreciate that Mrs B only proceeded with the operation on the advice of her vet. But 
unfortunately, that doesnt change the fact that the claim is excluded from cover. I am sorry 
to disappoint Mrs B but I wont be asking HDI to do any more in respect of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman