DRN-4281921
The complaint
Miss F complains that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly gave her a running account credit 
agreement which she couldnt afford.
What happened
Studio gave Miss F two running account credit agreements, one in October 2017 and 
another in October 2020. Miss Fs complaint form to the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
focussed her dissatisfaction on the second credit agreement in October 2020.
When she complained to Studio, it didnt uphold any part of her complaint and said it hadnt 
done anything wrong. Miss F referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator thought Studio wasnt wrong to have given Miss F the first account in 2017 
but thought it shouldnt have granted her the second account in October 2020. Studio didnt 
agree with our investigator. It said its checks showed Miss F could afford the credit account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Studio is aware 
of its obligations under the relevant rules, so I dont intend to repeat them here.
Miss F has responded to our investigators view saying she accepts the recommendation. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Studio took any steps to put things right for Miss F in 
relation to the first account. As Miss F has accepted this recommendation, there isnt a 
continuing dispute about the first account opened in October 2017. Therefore, Ive focussed 
my decision on the second account opened in October 2020 which remains in dispute.
Before agreeing to give Miss F the account in October 2017 Studio checked Miss Fs income 
and expenses. The information it has provided shows it worked out shed be left with £155 of 
disposable income. Studio also carried out a credit search which showed Miss F had recent 
adverse information on her credit file and a low balance on unsecured credit.
At this point, its vital to state that Miss F defaulted on her previous account with Studio. 
Studios records show Miss F fell into financial difficulties keeping up with her repayment on 
that account. The account was defaulted and sold to a third-party debt purchaser. That 
account was defaulted in October 2019, and it appears Miss F hadnt settled that account 
and was still in repaying in October 2020 when Studio decided to lend to her again.
Studio needed to take into account, not just what its checks showed about Miss F at the time 
but the relevant information it already knew about her. It suggests the results from the credit 
reference agency didnt show Miss F had a default, but its own records showed that she had 
defaulted on an account with it. Studio has also said in response to the investigators view 
that its policy at the time was to not lend to customers who had defaulted on a previous 
account with it. So, Studio knew Miss F had defaulted on a previous account only 12 months 
before it decided to lend to her. This is regardless of what its search into her credit file 
showed. Despite, this information Studio lent to Miss F.
There was sufficient information for Studio to be concerned about Miss Fs ability to keep up 
with repayments on the account based on what it knew and, in those circumstances, it 
wasnt responsible to lend to Miss F again so soon after she had defaulted on an account 
with it. So, Studio lent when it shouldnt have done, and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
what Studio needs to do
Remove all interest, fees and charges added to Miss Fs running account opened in 
October 2020.
Rework the account to adjust Miss Fs account balance based on the above, and all 
payments Miss F paid should be treated as payments towards the adjusted balance.
If after doing the above Miss F has made overpayments, Studio should add interest at 
8% per year simple on the overpayments sums from the date they were paid, if they 
were, to the date of settlement.
If theres still balance outstanding, then Studio should agree a suitable repayment plan 
with Miss F.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Fs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on this account once Miss F has fully repaid any adjusted 
outstanding balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to take off tax from this interest. Studio must give Miss F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part and direct Studio Retail 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman