DRN-3142451
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out sufficient due diligence 
activities when he asked to transfer some pension savings to an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) in early 2013.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr B himself.
Mr B held pension savings with Scottish Widows. He says that he was cold called by a firm 
offering him a free review of his pension arrangements. Following that review he was told 
that if he were to transfer his pension savings to the Leafield Retirement Scheme he would 
receive an immediate goodwill payment of £1,000, and better investment returns than he 
was currently receiving. Mr B was attracted by that advice and agreed to the transfer being 
started.
The firm that was advising Mr B wrote to Scottish Widows in early January 2013 to request 
information about his pension savings. And on 7 February the administrators of the new 
scheme sent Scottish Widows Mr Bs signed authority for the transfer to be completed. They 
also sent a copy of a letter from HMRC confirming the registration of the scheme. The 
transfer was completed, and the pension savings sent to the new scheme, on 11 February. 
Mr B says that his pension savings were in fact added to an alternative OPS, operated by 
the same administrators.
In July 2018 The Pensions Regulator (TPR) appointed a new independent trustee to the 
OPS. Mr B says that his investments in the scheme will result in him suffering a significant 
loss and he has needed to pay additional tax in relation to the initial goodwill payment he 
received. He says that Scottish Widows should have taken steps to contact him at the time 
of the transfer and make him aware of the possible dangers he was facing.
One of our investigators has assessed Mr Bs complaint. She noted that the transfer had 
been completed before the introduction of new guidance by TPR. So, in the absence of any 
other warning signs, she didnt think Scottish Widows needed to have taken steps to make 
Mr B aware that there might be problems with the transfer that he was requesting. So she 
didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. He thought that some information issued by TPR in 
2012 should have put Scottish Widows on notice that he might be at risk from a pension 
liberation scam and should have suggested he take further advice. He says that the 
documentation the OPS provided to Scottish Widows shouldnt have given the firm much 
confidence about the transfer. And he says that Scottish Widows failed in its duty to act in 
his best interests.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
At the time Mr B requested the transfer of his pension no specific guidance had been issued 
by The Pensions Regulator (TPR) on how businesses should deal with transfer requests. 
However, there was some emerging knowledge throughout the financial industry of pension 
scams and fraud and there is evidence that the Financial Services Authority (FSA, 
subsequently the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) and other regulatory bodies such as 
TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about the dangers of pension liberation 
schemes
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to schemes 
that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax and/or result in 
cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as a loan. Particular 
concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the fees charged and potential 
investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and 
TPR to find out more information and encouraged affected consumers to contact FSA, 
HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and had 
closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. The 
FSA was involved in this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. The 
warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold callers that encouraged 
people to transfer in order receive cash or access a loan.
And then, on 14 February 2013, TPR launched its scorpion campaign. The aim of that 
campaign was to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance for 
transferring schemes dealing with transfer requests on steps they could take to prevent 
liberation from happening. In particular the campaign provided information to scheme 
administrators about six specific warning signs and a checklist that could be used to 
establish the liberation dangers of the receiving scheme. And it provided a short insert, and a 
longer leaflet, at least one of which should be sent to all members who were requesting a 
transfer.
Financial Services Authority (FSA) Principles for Businesses
As Mr Bs policy was a personal pension, Scottish Widows was regulated by the FSA in its 
operation. There have never been any specific FSA/FCA rules on the checks transferring 
providers need to make before someone can transfer from a personal pension but the FCA 
Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out their 
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance 
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension 
liberation/scams/fraud.The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles that firms must adhere to 
and I consider the most relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension 
liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading.
Did Scottish Widows follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I think I should first deal here with the outputs of the scorpion campaign. As I said earlier, 
that campaign was launched on 14 February 2013. But I think it is important to note that the 
scorpion guidance was very much a step change in how these sorts of transfers should be 
viewed. I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that it represented a formalisation of 
what might have been considered best practice in the years or months before. 
Scottish Widows received Mr Bs transfer request on 8 February 2013. And the transfer was 
completed just three days later. So all of the activity that Scottish Widows performed relating 
to the transfer was completed before the scorpion guidance was announced and issued. As 
Ive said earlier, there was some emerging understanding of pensions liberation activity. But 
I havent seen anything to make me think, as Mr B alleges, that Scottish Widows was aware 
of the forthcoming changes, and rushed his transfer through to avoid needing to take any of 
the required actions. Generally I would think it reasonable to have allowed a firm a period of 
around a month to have implemented the changes after the scorpion guidance was 
announced. I think that would support an understanding that the changes were not made 
available to pension providers before they were released more widely.
But, since there was some knowledge of pension liberation and scams throughout the 
industry when Mr B requested the transfer of his pension its reasonable that 
Scottish Widows should have been aware of the threat and been familiar with TPR 
announcements. So Id expect Scottish Widows to have acted using its own judgement and 
discretion when handling pension transfer requests at that time as well as acting in line with 
the FSAs Principles for Businesses in all it did.
So these are the points I have considered in my decision, as well as taking account of what 
good industry practice was at the time.
When Mr B transferred his pension, providers would typically check that the receiving 
scheme was registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that 
the transfer was, in some way, suspicious. Scottish Widows has told us that the transfer 
request it received included a copy of the relevant HMRC registration details for the scheme. 
It has sent us a copy of the documentation it received.
I have noted that the scheme had only recently been registered with HMRC. If this had been 
after the scorpion guidance had been incorporated into Scottish Widows processes, I would 
have agreed with the CMC that it should have done more. But, this doesnt seem to have 
been something TPR had raised as an issue previously so theres no reason why it would be 
a concern to Scottish Widows. It might not have been considered unusual, at that time, for a 
new scheme to begin attracting new members shortly after it had been registered
The FSA Principles for BusinessesWhile Mr B has said Scottish Widows didnt adhere to the FSA principles when it processed 
his transfer Im satisfied the principles shouldnt be interpreted as meaning Scottish Widows 
should have investigated every transfer to the level of detail that he suggests as a matter of 
course. Even when the first guidance in this area  the scorpion guidance  was introduced 
shortly after the transfer, it didnt require providers to conduct the same level of exhaustive 
enquiries on every transfer whether warning signs were present or not. So I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to have expected Scottish Widows to be automatically 
suspicious of all transfers when the regulators, after considering the issue carefully, evidently 
didnt think that was necessary later on.
Furthermore, whether I can fairly say these rules should have led Scottish Widows to carry 
out a specific investigation on the transfer, to protect Mr B from possible liberation, largely 
depends on how likely it was viewed at the time that any particular transfer was at risk of this 
activity. I say this because there was always the risk of legitimate transfers being caught up 
in indiscriminate enquiries. And as already mentioned above at this stage, the regulators and  
HMRCs own position was that they were still taking steps to find out more about the 
problem.
So, on balance, I dont agree its reasonable to give the FSA principles and rules the context 
of industry intelligence that was subsequently compiled and circulated after Mr B transferred. 
TPR seems to have eventually decided that regulators and other agencies couldnt tackle 
the issue alone  and further intervention by pension providers was necessary. But that 
wasnt the position at the time of Mr Bs transfer. Therefore, I am of the view that 
Scottish Widows adhered to and met the FSAs Principles for Businesses in dealing with 
Mr B. I am satisfied it provided Mr B with the information he needed and did make it clear 
that transferring might have some financial consequences which he should be advised 
about. 
Overall therefore, while I can understand the difficult position Mr B has now found himself in, 
at the time of his pension transfer the issues he has raised werent considered enough of a 
cause for concern for providers across the board. This was, after all, a rapidly emerging 
issue. So individual providers, who would only have seen a small proportion of all activity in 
this area, wouldnt necessarily have had a comprehensive enough view of pension liberation 
schemes to have appreciated what the potential risk factors were before the scorpion 
guidance  which did begin to catalogue these risk factors  was issued. Of course, some 
providers may have had an awareness of specific liberation risks ahead of the scorpion 
guidance because they may, for example, have received a sudden increase in transfer 
requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Scottish Widows had, or should reasonably have had, this sort of awareness in Mr Bs case.
It therefore follows from the above that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. I recognise how 
disappointing this will be for him but for the reasons given above, Im satisfied 
Scottish Widows acted in line with what was required of it at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman