DRN-2403687
The complaint
Mr H complains about American International Group UK Limiteds (AIG) settlement of his 
mobile phone insurance claim and its service. My references to AIG include its agents 
including the business that handled the claim on AIGs behalf.
What happened
Mr H has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. The insurer is AIG. 
Mr H claimed on the policy for a damaged phone which AIG accepted. He complains that 
when he made the claim AIG told him he would get a brand new replacement phone but he 
received a refurbished phone. Also AIGs team manager didnt call him about his complaint, 
as it said it would. Mr H said he had to buy a new phone and he wants compensation.
AIG said it could have given Mr H clearer information about the phone in the call. It accepted 
Mr H had been told one of its team managers would call him about his complaint, which 
didnt happen. It offered £35 compensation for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought AIG had acting fairly in settling the claim with a refurbished  
replacement phone and in offering £35 compensation.
Mr H disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AIG acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says that if Mr H makes a claim for a damaged phone AIG will either repair or 
replace the phone. The policy states:
If we replace your phone, we will provide you with a refurbished model. Refurbished 
replacement phones will have genuine manufacturer parts and be in an as new`/ 
Grade A condition. The replacement phone comes with a 12-month warranty 
provided by (a named business).
So the policy is clear that the replacement phone will be a refurbished phone. AIG didnt do 
anything wrong in providing Mr H with a refurbished phone to settle his claim. And its 
common for such policies to have the same or similar terms.
Ive listened to the relevant call recording and AIGs representative didnt tell Mr H the 
replacement phone would be brand new. AIGs representative told Mr H a replacement 
phone would be sent to him by advanced exchange which meant it would send a  
replacement phone if he returned the damaged phone, and a £100 excess was payable. 
Mr H said So youre going to send me a new phone and take this one back. AIGs 
representative said Yes just like a door step swap, you give the broken one and (the named 
delivery business) gives you the new one.
Mr H understood AIGs representative meant he would be getting a brand new phone, but 
that isnt what AIGs representative said. AIGs representative was referring to the 
replacement phone as the new phone to distinguish it from Mr Hs old damaged phone.
AIG accepts its representative could have been clearer that the replacement would be 
refurbished. But even if I thought the representative could have been clearer that doesnt 
mean AIG would need to give Mr H a brand new phone. As Ive said the policy terms are 
very clear the replacement would be a refurbished phone. AIG fairly settled the claim.
Although one of AIGs team managers didnt phone Mr H about his complaint one of its 
representatives called him to say the manager had listened to the relevant call and AIG 
hadnt mentioned a brand new phone. The representative said the manager wasnt available 
to call Mr H so rather than make him wait the representative had called. I think that was 
reasonable action for AIG to take.
AIG offered Mr H £35 compensation for his distress and inconvenience and I think thats a 
reasonable amount. Mr H had loss of expectation that he was getting a brand new phone but 
his expectation wasnt because AIG gave him wrong information. 
Mr H says he had to buy a brand new phone. Theres no evidence that he told AIG there 
was something wrong with the replacement phone, if there was the phone was covered by a 
warranty so he wouldnt have needed to buy a new one. 
I understand from AIGs letter to Mr H that its already paid the £35 compensation into his 
bank account. If he hasnt received the money and wants to accept the offer he should 
contact AIG direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman