DRN-3590161
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) refused her full claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 to let her 
reject a faulty kitchen.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs B ordered a new kitchen to be fitted in her house, from a company I will 
call W, funded by a fixed sum loan from BPF. When the kitchen was fitted she identified a 
number of faults and she contacted the W. It agreed to remedy some of the issues, but 
disputed that it was responsible for some others. 
Mrs B contacted BPF and it contacted W. BPF said that it thought the offer made by W to fix 
various issues was a reasonable solution. Mrs B remained unhappy with this and brought 
her complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld. 
The following sets out the faults Mrs B has encountered and which W has agreed to repair:
The join in the worktop has not been sealed.
The additional worktop ordered which was to be used on the windowsills has not 
been factory sealed on all sides as requested, and when fitted has been edged with 
tape which has either completely come off or is very loose. 
Upstands have not been sealed where joined and been mitred at the ends which 
have also not been sealed. This finish was not displayed in the showroom. 
Two doors on the wall units do not close.
Screw heads clearly visible above and below cupboards. 
Cupboard end panels not flush and square with wall unit. 
Base unit door not flush with side panel. 
The following issues are unresolved:
Worktop scratched and damaged. W says it has no record of this being reported until 
June 2020 and neither it nor BPF consider themselves to be responsible. Mrs B has 
said that she reported this immediately in a phone call and has provided phone 
records of calls she made to W.
Existing flooring damaged during fitting. W and BPF didnt accept responsibility for 
this. BPF said that damage seemed to be close the fridge and free standing 
appliances were not part of the contract. Mrs B has said the fridge was moved by the 
fitters and they caused the damage. 
Sink unit not flush with door however worktop and upstands are not fitted to design 
plan. BPF and W say it was fitted according the agreed plan. It said the sink needs to 
fit inside the base unit and the base unit is positioned in the correct sequence on this 
run. To move this across would mean having a much larger gap for a free-standing 
appliance, which is not normal practice or as per measurements.
Excess pipework used to plumb sink resulting in unnecessary reduction in storage 
space and bad smell. W and BPF say this was fitted correctly.
One set of pan drawers and one set of conventional drawers requested however two 
pan drawers have been installed. W says this kitchen doesnt come with alternative 
drawers so cannot supply the one Mrs B wants.
Mrs B has also said that she didnt sign the completion certificate and her signature must 
have been forged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The required debtor-creditor-supplier chain is in place so it remains for me to consider if 
there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
As for the items which W has agreed to repair I appreciate Mrs B wants the work carried out 
by a different fitter. That seems to me to be a reasonable request and I expect W to ensure 
this happens. 
I will address the remaining disputed items separately.
The worktop: Mrs B had gloss worktops fitted and the Ws instructions explain that these 
need particular care as they are prone to scratching. I have noted Mrs B has told is she 
complained about this shortly after they were fitted and I can see she made several calls to 
W at this time. What I cannot reasonably conclude is what was the content of those 
conversations. W has agreed to remedy various items and if it had been aware of the issue 
earlier I think it more likely that it would have recorded this.
I take the point about durability, but the instructions explain the required use and treatment 
of gloss finish surfaces and I cannot say that the fact the worktops are now marked would 
allow me to conclude there had been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Damaged Flooring: I have noted the photograph of the mark which I gather is near the 
fridge. It has been suggested this may have been caused by the fridge being moved, but there is no evidence of how it occurred or indeed when? In order for both BPF and this 
service to be able to support the claim we would need more evidence. I simply cannot say 
that W was responsible for the mark.
The sink: Mrs B says the base unit and the sink should be fitted flush and if it had been fitted 
as agreed it would allow for access to the washing machine. The contract states: Use sink 
cut out template and finish with waterproof compound. I gather W agreed in a document 
sent to the Furniture Ombudsman, who is no longer involved in this complaint, that it should 
be fitted flush. I asked for further comments on this matter and Clydesdale sought 
clarification from W.
It supplied a photo of the finished works and the detailed contract which it said showed the 
sink had been fitted as requested. It added that the installation manager also suggests the 
washing machine can be moved easily, via the gaps at the top and bottom (Presumably via 
a slight tilt and then extraction). I am not sure this final comment is relevant, but I can see 
that the design does not show the sink to be fitted flush with the door. As such I cannot say 
W fitted incorrectly.
Pipework: It seems a standard kit was used and I have seen no evidence to show that was 
fitted incorrectly. It may take up more space than Mrs B was expecting, but I have seen 
nothing to show what was agreed and so I cannot see any breach of contract.
Pan drawers: Mrs Bs claim is based on the discussions she had with the designer. However 
there is nothing in the contract she agreed which sets of the precise type of drawer and so I 
cannot say BPF was wrong to reject her claim. It needs clear evidence to enable it to uphold 
a claim and I have not been able to identify any such evidence. 
Finally I cannot say whether or not the certificate was forged but Clydesdale has explained 
that this did not lead to the erroneous activation of the credit agreement. I do not think this 
has an impact on the financial situation and so I need not comment.  
Clydesdale together with W have already made an offer to remedy certain defects as set out 
above to settle the complaint. Mrs B should contact Clydesdale directly if she now wishes to 
accept this.
My final decision
I dont think Clydesdale Financial Services Limited needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman