DRN-3520324
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Experian Limited continuing to charge him for the CreditExpert 
service when the price rose and his card details changed.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In 2008, Mr B signed up for the CreditExpert service. In order to pay for it, he set up a 
Continuous Payment Authority (or CPA for short) using his card details.
At that point, CreditExpert cost £6.99 a month. This rose to £7.99 in 2010, £9.99 in 2013, 
and £14.99 in 2018. In 2021, Mr B cancelled his membership.
Mr B complained. He said Experian hadnt notified him of the price increases. He felt they 
should have contacted him every month when the subscription automatically renewed, and 
should have checked the service still met his needs. He was unhappy that they still took 
payment after the card he signed up with expired. He asked for a refund of his payments.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that CPAs carry on to the next card when the old one expires. They explained that 
Experian were allowed to increase the price, Mr B agreed to it under the terms he signed up 
to, and he wouldve been aware of the charges. They explained that Experian had not given 
Mr B financial advice and were not required to check whether he still needed the service  it 
was up to him to decide for himself.
Mr B didnt agree. He wanted copies of the emails Experian had sent him about price 
increases. He felt theyd not followed the regulators rules. He said hed previously had 
payments get declined when his card details changed, and that a different company emailed 
him every time they took a payment. He pointed out he could have got some of the features 
of the service for free elsewhere.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr B and Experian a provisional decision 
on 17 May 2022, to explain why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that 
decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Experian did anything substantially wrong here.
Generally speaking, businesses are allowed to change the price they charge for their 
services. Mr B will have found that many of his services  such as utilities, entertainment 
packages, subscriptions and so on  are not the exact same price they were in 2008. The 
CreditExpert service is no different in that regard. It was also set out that Experian were 
allowed to change the price in the terms that Mr B agreed to when he signed up.
Of course, Id expect Experian to have told Mr B about the price increases. I do understand 
Mr B would like a copy of the individual emails sent to him, but I would not necessarily 
expect Experian to still have a copy of every individual email they sent every single customer 
going back well over a decade. Indeed, under data protection rules Experian were required 
to dispose of such old data rather than hold onto it for too long. So its perhaps unsurprising 
that the records are more limited now.
But from the archived history of Experians contact with Mr B, I can see entries showing 
when they emailed him to upsell the new services and inform him of the price increases in 
2010 and 2013. And Ive read through internal documentation which detailed how Experian 
told customers about the 2018 price increase as part of their regular communication, as well 
as a template of what Mr B would have been sent. So on balance, I think its most likely that 
Mr B was informed about the price increases.
In regard to the payments renewing, I should explain that thats how CPAs work. When Mr B 
set up the CPA, he gave Experian permission to take regular card payments. Then when the 
old card expires, it is normal for the CPA to transfer over to the new card details. Otherwise, 
every time a card expired, customers would have to set up all their regular card payments all 
over again. If Mr B had other payments get declined after his card details changed, its likely 
that those were either not CPAs or that the merchant failed to transfer the CPA over. But 
again, it is normal and permitted for merchants to use the updated card details when ones 
old card expires. So Experian were OK to continue taking payments in this case.
Mr B has likely used other CPAs, such as for things like gym subscriptions or TV streaming 
services  its quite a normal form of paying for things. There was no requirement for 
Experian to take payment by standing order or direct debit instead. They were also not 
required to email every single customer for every single months payment  even if another 
business might choose to do so. These payments were not hidden or unauthorised  Mr B 
authorised Experian to take them when he set up his subscription. And the payments would 
have been clearly set out on his bank statements, like his other payments. Further, Experian 
did send Mr B quite a bit of correspondence about his CreditExpert service over the years.
Experian did not have to check whether the CreditExpert service still met Mr Bs needs. They 
did not give him tailored financial advice  this was a non-advised service, as many 
services are. That means it was up to Mr B to decide for himself whether he still wanted his 
subscription or not. Similarly, Experian were not required to advertise their competitors 
services or to point out that some of their features were included in free alternatives.
I understand that Mr B may be unhappy with the way that CPAs or non-advised services 
work in general. Its worth bearing in mind that were here to look at individual complaints  
we are not the regulator and do not set how things work across the board. So I cannot 
change how the banking system works as a whole and am not best placed to address Mr Bs 
objections to the wider system. Im here to look at what Experian did in this particular case. 
And from what Ive seen, they did not do anything substantially wrong here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 June 2022. Experian confirmed they had nothing more to add. Mr B expressed his 
disappointment as he believes the payment process itself to be unfair. He acknowledged 
our remit and forwarded his concerns to the regulator.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any materially new evidence or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
I do appreciate that this is not the outcome Mr B was hoping for. I understand hes forwarded 
his wider systemic concerns about CPAs to the regulator, who would be better placed to 
consider that. As before, I can only make findings on Experians actions in this individual 
situation, rather than on CPAs or the payment system as a whole. And I cant fairly say that 
Experian did anything wrong here when they were just operating a CPA in the way that 
CPAs are normally supposed to work.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman