DRN-4203177
The complaint
The estate of Mrs G, represented by its executor, Mrs B, has complained about Inter Partner 
Assistance SA (IPA) regarding a claim she made to it under the home emergency cover it 
provides for a property owned by the estate and rented to tenants.
What happened
During a visit to the tenanted property, Mrs B noted a water leak through the roof, as a result 
of the leak there was no electricity. She made a claim to IPA on 9 November 2022.
IPA had some difficulty finding a record for the property, Ms B was upset by some of its 
enquiries. Also because initially when a policy could not be found the claim just wasnt 
logged  it took Mrs B chasing a response for things to be moved forwards. IPA sent out an 
assessor on 16 November 2022. It was felt that the roof was in need of a permanent repair 
due to wear and tear issues  with the tenants having noted damp for the past two to three 
years. IPA declined the claim on the policy. Mrs B was unhappy and complained. 
IPA acknowledged there had been some poor service by it, including a delay, of around six 
days, for it to inspect the damage. But it maintained that its decline was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs B made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Mrs B wasnt satisfied by the 
findings. She asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs B is concerned with the service received from IPA. Not least because 
she thinks the house suffered further damage because IPA did not comply with its terms and 
conditions ie to cover the roof with tarpaulin and fix the electrics. Whilst IPA doesnt accept it 
did anything wrong in this respect, it did acknowledge some service failings and paid £200 
compensation. 
Mrs B is the executor for the estate of Mrs G. Or she was at the time of the claim to IPA and 
complaint to this service. I understand that the estate may since have been settled. As such 
Mrs B acted in this claim and complaint in her role as executor. As our Investigator 
explained, her upset, as an individual, is not something this service can take into account. 
The estate can be inconvenienced, although it cant suffer upset. IPA has paid £200 
compensation for its service failings. In the circumstances, particularly the likely limited 
inconvenience caused to the estate, I think that is fair and reasonable.  
I know Mrs B is worried that the house has suffered more because IPA has not acted to 
protect it, as the policy provides for. But I dont think its unreasonable that no electrical work 
was done where the problem with the electrics had reportedly resulted from the on-going 
and unresolved water ingress. And the roof repair, which would have resolved the water 
ingress, was reasonably outside of the cover on the policy. I say that because the policy 
explains that on-going leaks are not classed as emergencies, and the tenants at the property 
reported long-term issues with water ingress. So Im satisfied that IPA, on this occasion, 
acted reasonably in line with the policy terms to not provide an emergency repair for the 
property. I also note the water ingress was already quite severe when Mrs B raised the claim 
and had likely been ongoing for some time. I see that Mrs B was told within two weeks of 
making the claim, despite delays occurring within that period, that the claim would not be 
covered under the policy (which I have found was a fair and reasonable decision by IPA). So 
Im not persuaded that any delay by IPA impacted the condition of the property.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman