DRN-3943000
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
He says that Barclays didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Barclays to refund the money he has lost. 
What happened
Mr M had begun an online relationship, after building up trust this individual asked Mr M if he 
had an interest in learning to trade in cryptocurrency.
Mr M was persuaded to invest and purchased crypto, which he believed was then 
transferred onto a trading platform where he could see his investment - although this 
platform was fake.
Mr M was also persuaded to take out a loan and to transfer the funds to a different bank 
where the money was then paid on to purchase more crypto.
Mr M has lost £85,916.45 to the scam from his Barclays account. 
Once he realised, he had been scammed, Mr M complained to Barclays, but it didnt uphold 
his complaint. He then brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mr M asked from an Ombudsman to make a final decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
out Investigator. I know that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. He has lost a large 
amount of money and has been tricked by someone he trusted, and I know that this has had 
a huge impact on him both financially and emotionally.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr M has been scammed  he was contacted under the premise 
of starting a relationship, but in reality, this was a ruse. He parted with large sums of money 
while being reassured by this individual that it was a legitimate investment. Then when it 
came to making a withdrawal, Mr M was allowed to take a small withdrawal, but when the 
time came to take out larger sums, excuses were made, and more funds were apparently 
required to do so. The scammer then cut contact with Mr M. 
Did Mr M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr M authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr M did authorise the payments in question here. I 
understand that Mr M had been tricked by the scammer into instructing Barclays to make the 
payments  but while Mr M never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt 
change the fact that he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Barclays) and the merchant (here, the sellers of the 
crypto that was purchased).
I understand that Barclays raised a chargeback requests on Mr Ms behalf, but these were 
not successful. This is because the sellers of the crypto are legitimate crypto exchanges and 
provided the services that Mr M requested of them  which was the purchase of crypto. The 
subsequent transfer of the crypto to a different wallet is therefore a separate matter  and so 
a successful chargeback would never have been possible  and so I dont think that these 
payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should Barclays have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mr M made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
Mr M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr M and the payments in question here.
Having looked at the transactions that Mr M has made, I do think that Barclays should have 
got in touch with him about the payments he was making sooner than it did. Mr M started 
making payments towards the scam on the 2 June 2022  but these were not for significantly 
high or unusual amounts that should have prompted Barclays to take action.
However, by the 10 June 2022, Mr Ms account activity had changed significantly, and he 
was now making large payments to crypto in a short space of time. I would have expected 
Barclays to contact Mr M at this time, and to question him about the payments he was 
making, with the intention of uncovering or disrupting a fraud or scam.
That said, in order for me to uphold Mr Ms complaint, I would also have to consider that 
such an intervention would have prevented Mr M from losing his money to the scammer  
and I dont think that it would. Ill explain why.
Barclays did contact Mr M twice regarding the payments that he was making  and although 
I think it should have done so sooner, I also have to consider what Mr M told Barclays during 
these calls. 
Barclays has provided copies of both calls to me, and having listened to what was asked, 
and the answers Mr M gave, I dont think that Barclays could have done any more than it did, 
and Im not persuaded that an earlier intervention would have had a different result.
Barclays questioned Mr M about the payments, who they were to, and if anyone else was 
involved with the payments. Mr M didnt divulge that he had been in contact with someone 
who had persuaded him to invest. He also wasnt truthful about his earlier payments to 
crypto and when questioned about them said he had done this off his own back and had 
access to the funds. Barclays also questioned him about the loan he had taken (and was 
transferring the funds to a different bank). Mr M said he was paying off debts  but this 
wasnt the case, the funds were intended to purchase more crypto via another bank.
Barclays also explained to Mr M that it had seen a lot of fraud involving crypto and warned 
him about losing his money. I think that it gave him a meaningful warning about scams, but 
Mr M chose to continue to make payments even after this warning was given. So, Im satisfied that Barclays could not have stopped the loss, even if it had intervened 
earlier than it did. 
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr M now finds himself in. He has been 
the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused 
by the scammers, and not Barclays. And I cant ask Barclays to refund this loss when I think 
it provided meaningful warnings (albeit later than I would like)  and Mr M chose to ignore 
them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman