DRN-4503559
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Pinnacle refused to settle in full a claim on his pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr S took out a pet insurance policy with Pinnacle for his dog. The policy 
had an annual limit of £2,000 for each condition covered by the policy.
Mr S claimed on the policy after his dog, whom Ill call P, had surgery for Brachycephalic 
Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS) on 19 December 2022. Pinnacle accepted the claim.
Later in December P was treated for aspiration pneumonia. When Mr S claimed for that, 
Pinnacle said this illness was a complication of the BOAS surgery and the maximum it would 
pay for treatment of this and the BOAS treatment was £2,000. That left Mr S to cover the 
difference.
Mr S thought that Pinnacle should treat the claim for aspiration pneumonia as a separate 
condition as his vet had provided evidence that the aspiration pneumonia was unlikely to 
have been caused by the BOAS surgery.
As Pinnacle didnt change its decision, Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Mr Ss policy has a maximum benefit limit of £2,000 per condition per year. The policy 
definition of Condition includes Related Conditions which are defined as follows:
a number of illnesses, accidental injuries or symptoms [which] are :
(a) diagnosed as one illness, accidental injury, or
(b)caused by, relate to, or result from another illness, accidental injury or symptom.
The issue for me to decide is whether the aspiration pneumonia arose from the BOAS 
condition.
Mr Ss vet has explained what the two conditions are. She said BOAS is the term used to 
describe the cluster of anatomic abnormalities seen in brachycephalic breeds that contribute 
to dysfunction of the upper airway whereas aspirant pneumonia is the inflammation of the 
lungs.
According to the PDSA website one of the symptoms of BOAS is regurgitation or vomiting 
caused by pressure created in the abdomen from the dog struggling to breathe. Pinnacles 
vet said:
Regurgitation is a well-known part of brachycephalic obstructive airway disease, with the 
condition seen as both an airway and gastrointestinal condition now. The negative pressure 
associated with BOAS and dogs struggling to breathe induces regurgitation and equally the 
regurgitation causes inflammation of the soft tissue of the upper airway, which narrows the 
airways further.
Pinnacles vet has referred me to a paper1 reporting that in a study of dogs whod undergone 
BOAS surgery post-operative complications included vomiting and regurgitation in 18% of 
cases and aspiration pneumonia in 11%.
According to the PDSA website dogs can suffer from aspiration pneumonia when they inhale 
fluids and/or foreign bodes into their lungs. It says this can be caused by a dog vomiting or 
regurgitating gastric acid from the stomach.
After the BOAS surgery on 19 December 2022 P was seen to be hypersalivating, so she 
was hospitalised overnight. On 20 December the vet reported:
All vitals okay overnight, prevomax given 21.00pm as she kept retching and coughing up 
phlegm, syringe used as a suction to remove phlegm. Chest a little crackly but reduced by 
the morning. Continuation of nebuliser overnight with bisolvon. 
On 22 December Mr S told the vet P wasnt eating or drinking. The vet noted the following:
 slight crackle on lungs bilaterally.
Concerned re aspirant pneumonia beginning. Advised hosp for the day with IV antibiotics 
and supportive care to see how she respondsAdvised overnight hospitalisation to cont 
antibiotics to combat the pneumonia
On 28 December Mr S told the vet P was being sick and regurgitating. The vet noted:
Advised needs feeding tube and supportive treatment for Gastroesophageal reflux disease 
likely induced due to anaesthetic  brachy dogs more susceptible to such issues.
Given that it seems to be established in the veterinary field that aspiration pneumonia is a 
recognised complication of BOAS surgery and in this case the vet was concerned about 
aspiration pneumonia only three days after surgery, on balance I think Pinnacle has shown 
its more likely than not that the aspiration pneumonia P suffered from was related to the 
BOAS condition. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. And I do appreciate how stressful he has 
found this matter. But after taking into account Ps medical history and the veterinary 
evidence Im satisfied Pinnacle has acted fairly in treating the BOAS and aspiration 
pneumonia as related conditions. So this means the policy limit of £2,000 should apply to 
both conditions. As a result I dont propose to ask Pinnacle to do anything more.
In summary Mr S made the following points:
P had surgery for BOAS and surgery is not a condition or illness.
Pinnacles vet had never examined P, so her diagnosis was less persuasive.
The paper Id referred to was produced in 2016 and was based on only 55 brachycephalic 
dogs which is very low. In comparison Mr S said there are over 2 million brachycephalic 
dogs in the UK. The paper didnt discuss Ps breed in particular. Mr S questioned the 
accuracy of the statistics in the paper. The paper went on to say that aspiration 
pneumonia has not been identified as a postoperative complication in more recent 
studies.
His vet was only concerned that aspiration pneumonia might be starting on 22 December. 
It wasnt until 28 December that aspiration pneumonia was diagnosed and treated.
1 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4982570/It is not established in the veterinary field that aspiration pneumonia is a recognized 
complication of BOAS surgery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I understand Mr S correctly, he is saying that if Ps aspiration pneumonia resulted from 
surgery, that is different from the condition of BOAS. But I think if it hadnt been for the 
condition of BOAS, P wouldnt have needed surgery and subsequently developed aspiration 
pneumonia, and so it was fair for Pinnacle to say that the aspiration pneumonia was related 
to the condition of BOAS.
I appreciate that Pinnacles vet has not examined P. However I understand she is an 
experienced vet who has observed and performed BOAS surgery. She has based her 
assessment on an analysis of the information provided by Mr Ss vet and her clinical 
knowledge of the condition. She has referred me to a number of papers which support her 
assertion that aspiration pneumonia has been identified as a post-operative complication in 
more recent studies than the paper I referred to in my provisional findings. However, I accept 
that there may well be conflicting findings on this. 
At the end of the day, however, it is not the various academic papers available online which 
have persuaded me but in coming to the conclusion that BOAS and aspiration pneumonia 
are likely to be related conditions, I have been more influenced by the timeline of what 
happened to P after surgery. This was as follows:
a. Post operatively  hypersalivation
b. Overnight after surgery  retching and coughing up phlegm. Chest crackly.
c. Day after surgery  reduced crackles but still present.
d. Two days after surgery  dog not eaten and not right.
e. Three days after surgery  severe inspiratory effort, nasal discharge and crackles on lung. 
Vet noted: concerned aspiration pneumonia beginning. 
It appears that there is no point here at which P could be said to be normal post-operatively 
particularly with regard to the chest and it was only three days later that the vet first became 
concerned about the possibility of aspirant pneumonia although I appreciate that wasnt 
actually diagnosed until six days later.
In addition one of the vets who examined P referred to P having gastroesophageal reflux 
disease likely induced due to anaesthetic  brachy dogs more susceptible to such issues.
This statement seems to link the surgery for BOAS to the reflux and regurgitation which is in 
turn linked to aspiration pneumonia.
I sympathise with Mr S for the stressful time hes had with his dogs health and the cost of 
the treatment. But on balance I dont think Pinnacle has treated him unfairly in limiting the 
amount he can claim for his dogs treatment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman