DRN-3101997
The complaint
Mr C believes that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) unfairly and 
incorrectly changed the terms of their dual branded credit card reward scheme to his 
disadvantage. 
What happened
Mr C holds a dual branded Amex credit card which provides benefits under its membership 
scheme. When using the credit card, Mr Cs membership provides him with reward points in 
proportion to his spend. The reward points can be exchanged for various benefits. In 
particular, the points can be used to purchase flights with an associated airline company. 
Under the scheme, in the event that Mr C accumulates 20,000 points or more in any 12-
month period, he is rewarded with a companion flight voucher. The voucher can be used to 
secure an additional complimentary flight ticket to accompany any flight ticket purchased 
with reward points. The companion ticket can identically match the category of ticket 
purchased with the reward points, regardless of flight class. The 12-month qualification 
period begins on the anniversary of Mr Cs membership in the scheme  in this case on 20 
November each year. Any companion voucher needs to then be used within 12 months of 
being awarded.
In June 2021, he received a letter from Amex. They gave notice they were changing the 
terms of the reward scheme. They reduced the qualifying points to 12,000 in any 
membership year. They also said the companion voucher could only be used to purchase 
economy class tickets. The changes were to take effect from 1 September 2021.
Mr C wasnt happy with the changes. He specifically used his card to accumulate the 
minimum 20,000 points, each year. He would then use them to purchase a flight ticket and 
use the awarded companion voucher to purchase an identical ticket in the same flight class. 
He thought it unfair that Amex were changing their terms part way through his membership 
year, restricting the companion voucher to an economy class flight. 
Mr C complained to Amex. He wasnt happy he couldnt use the benefits in the same way 
hed been doing. He also considered this a breach of contract and believed that any notice 
given should only apply at the beginning of a new membership year. 
Amex didnt agree that they were in breach of their terms and conditions. They said the 
changes were a business decision and theyd given the required advance notice. Mr C didnt 
agree with Amex, so he asked this service to investigate his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think that Amex has acted 
unfairly. But Mr C didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said that Amex couldnt 
give notice of change part way through a membership year. So, he asked that his complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C has been a card holder and scheme member with Amex for around 
18 years. Its clear to me that Mr C has actively used his card and membership throughout 
that period and benefitted from the rewards that the scheme offers. It also appears that Mr C 
proactively manages his use of the scheme to ensure he benefits from the companion 
scheme that is offered.
Ive looked at the letter sent by Amex to Mr C dated 9 June 2021. It provides notice of the 
changes proposed to the scheme and explains that the qualifying conditions for a companion 
voucher would change with effect from 1 September 2021. I believe the contents are clear. 
This equates to just short of three months notice.
Mr C has explained how he uses these benefits each year. So, I completely understand why 
he now thinks the proposed changes will disadvantage him. Particularly as he maintains that 
he previously used any companion voucher received to purchase an identical flight ticket to 
the one purchased with reward points. 
Amex said that their decision to vary the terms was a business one. In fairness, Amex are 
entitled to do that and thats not something this service would question. Mr C asked if that 
decision was made by Amex or their dual branding partner. I dont believe the answer to that 
question will impact my findings, as any changes need only comply with the terms and 
conditions relating to the credit card account and the associated rewards scheme  
regardless of who originally decided the change. 
Ive considered the various terms and conditions in order to see whether they were met by 
Amex. These are in the section relating to Credit Card Benefits  Changes to these terms 
and conditions. They say that 30 days notice of any changes are required. However, the 
scheme membership website details specific terms and conditions in relation to the 
Companion Voucher. Section 27 says The Terms and Conditions of this promotion may be 
changed by Amexs partner at any time, on giving Cardmembers 3 months notice. This 
does differ from the notice period above. However, as the variation notice was given by 
Amex and not their dual branding partner, I cant reasonably say that this has been 
breached. In any event, this would still have taken effect before the end of the qualifying 
year.
I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr Cs complaint 
here. 
It isnt our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Its 
also not our role to question a businesss terms and conditions.
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures or terms and conditions were applied. 
Particularly in the individual circumstances of Mr Cs experience with them.
Mr C believes that Amex shouldnt be permitted to vary their terms part way through a 
qualifying year. And I can completely understand why Mr C might think that. But, while it may 
seem unfair to Mr C, I cant see that Amex have done anything wrong here. They provided 
written notice of the changes which complies with their terms and conditions. Accepting Mr 
Cs view, Ive seen nothing in their terms and conditions that suggests Amex must align any 
changes with the 12-month qualifying period.
I do realise that Mr C will be disappointed, but Ive not found anything to persuade me that 
Amex were at fault here. I believe they acted fairly in accordance with their terms and conditions. So, Im not in a position to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman