DRN-3716387
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with a car he acquired using a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn
No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
Mr G acquired a used car in February 2020 funded by a conditional sale agreement provided
by Moneybarn. When he got it, the car was around seven years old and had covered just
under 38,000 miles. The cash price of the car was £6,110.
Mr G says shortly after getting the car he noticed issues with it. Around two weeks after
getting the car repairs were carried out to the parking sensors  which it appears the dealer
paid for. Mr G then says in early March 2020 the engine management light (EML) came on
and the car wasnt performing well.
In April 2020 Mr G took the car to a manufacturers garage. It confirmed the EML was on and
it changed the spark plugs. It noted if the engine was still running poorly an inspection of the
inlet manifold would need to be done. It also noted issues with a tyre and the windscreen
wipers.
Mr G says this didnt solve the problem. At the end of April 2020 Mr G took the car to another
garage. This noted an inlet valve carbon clean was carried out. Again, Mr G says this didnt
solve the issue.
In May 2020 an exhaust bracket was welded and a tyre was replaced.
In July 2020 another diagnostic was carried out and the spark plugs renewed.
In August 2020 two tyres were replaced.
In November 2020 the spark plugs were replaced again.
Mr G then complained to Moneybarn. He said the car wasnt performing as it should and he
had been trying to get hold of the dealer for some time about the problems but it wasnt
responding.
In December 2020 Moneybarn sent Mr G a letter acknowledging his complaint. He then
referred the complaint to our service.
In March 2020 an independent inspection was carried out on the car. At this point it had
covered around 49,931 miles. This said, in summary, that the cars performance was very
restricted.
The report concluded that it appeared there was an underlying fault with the cars engine
management system and turbo. It said these faults were not considered to be present at the
point of supply as the car had covered around 12,000 miles. The company that did the report
later sent a follow up, explaining that it thought issues with the spark plugs were developing
at the point of sale, but that the replacement that was carried out in November 2020 resolved
the issue. It said as what it had noted was a lack of performance and a turbo issue, this was
not connected.
In July 2021, Moneybarn issued its final response to Mr G complaint. This said, in summary,
that the spark plugs and other issues were wear and tear items. And it said the independent
report had concluded the problems wouldnt have been present or developing at the point of
supply. So, it didnt uphold Mr G complaint. But, it did offer £100 for the delay in responding.
Our investigator then issued an opinion. This explained, in summary, that she thought the
complaint should be upheld. She said she thought the later issues with the cars
performance were linked to the earlier problems Mr G had. So, she thought these were
present or developing at the point of supply.
Our investigator said the issues with the tyres, exhaust bracket and wipers were wear and
tear items and not faults present at the point of supply.
She said Moneybarn should cover the cost of the work to the spark plugs and inlet valve
clean. She said it should reimburse Mr G 10% of the repayments for the time the car wasnt
performing as it should. She said Moneybarn should arrange for a diagnosis of the ongoing
engine fault and repair it, or allow Mr G to reject the car. And she said it should pay Mr G
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr G replied and said hed taken the car for a further diagnosis in April 2021. He sent an
invoice which showed the timing chain had been replaced. Mr G said this had fixed the issue
and the car was performing as it should.
Our investigator sent a follow up to her view, explaining that she thought the underlying
issue with the car had been the timing chain, and so in addition to what shed previously
recommended, Moneybarn should also cover the cost of this latest work.
Moneybarn responded. It said, in summary, that it thought the conclusions of the
independent report should stand.
Our investigator said this didnt change their opinion, so the case was passed to me to
decide.
While awaiting a decision, Mr G told us he was in the process of moving the car on.
I sent Mr G and Moneybarn a provisional decision on 8 September 2022. My findings from 
this decision were as follows:
Mr G complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I
can consider Mr G complaint about Moneybarn.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Moneybarn here  has a
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price,
mileage and description.So, Ill consider here that the car Mr G acquired was around seven years old. And it cost
around £6,100  which is a significant discount on what the car wouldve cost new. So, I
think a reasonable person wouldnt expect the car to be necessarily in great condition, and
might expect some parts to have suffered from wear and tear. But, the car had covered
around 38,000 miles  which is reasonably low for its age. So, I think a reasonable person
wouldve expected it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied
and wouldve expected trouble free motoring for at least a short period of time.
The main issue here is the cars underperformance and the appearance of the EML  which
Mr G says kept coming on until the timing chain was replaced. Mr G says this first occurred
in March 2020 shortly after he got the car. Im satisfied a fault occurred around this time 
which Ill comment on further below. And Im satisfied this fault was present or developing at
the point of supply, as it occurred so soon after Mr G got the car  a conclusion the
independent report producer also reached in its follow up.
The crux of this complaint, and the question I need to answer, is whether this issue was
ongoing and linked to the later timing chain repair, or whether the car suffered from
separate, unconnected issues.
Mr G said the car wasnt performing as it should and the EML appeared shortly after he got
it. The vehicle health check from April 2020, where the mileage was 39,889, noted:
EML Light on, investigated and fault codes stored in log are linked to misfire and inlet valves
clogging
The invoice from this time noted:
Investigate customer complaint of the vehicle seems to be losing power and not hitting the
revs
replaced spark plugs and erased fault codes and road tested customer to monitor vehicle
still slightly lumpy if fault/customer not happy inlet valves will need inspecting
At the end of April 2020 Mr G has supplied an invoice for an inlet valve carbon clean. This
is in line with the recommendations from the previous inspection  so this backs up Mr G
testimony that the issue continued after the spark plugs were replaced.
Mr G then says the issue still continued, and he was given repeated advice to replace the
spark plugs. Hes provided an invoice from July 2020 showing a diagnostic was carried out
and following this the invoice notes renew all the spark plugs. And hes provided an invoice
from November 2020 from a different garage where a diagnostic was done and spark plugs
were again replaced.
Im satisfied both of these invoices again back up Mr G testimony that the problem persisted
and the attempted repairs werent successful.
Ive then considered what the independent report said. Ill discuss the conclusions of the
report later. But in relation to the reported issues, it said:
The engine management light remained illuminated during the examination and during a
road test
We found that the performance was below average with a lack of turbo performance noted
we found that the performance was very restrictedI appreciate the independent report reached different conclusions as to why this was
happening from the other garages  which Ill comment on later. But, it seems to me that the
actual issue here  the underperformance and EML  sounds very similar to what Mr G
consistently said was happening and which was identified in April 2020.
Ive then considered what the invoice for the final repair Mr G had carried out in April 2021
said. This explained:
CHECK AND REPORT ON ENGINE LIGHT WARNING
It then goes on to explain the timing chain was replaced. Importantly, and what is a key fact
in this case, is that Mr G said this repair resolved the issue. And I havent seen any further
work was needed from this point.
So, thinking about all of this, Im satisfied I can see a history here that backs up Mr G
version of events  that the underlying fault from April 2020 wasnt put right until the repair in
April 2021.
Ive carefully thought about what Moneybarn said about this. It said the conclusions of the
independent report should stand. The independent report concluded that:
the issue under review is not considered to have been present at sale after 12,000 miles of
further use, had it been present at sale it should have materialised in the first 1000  1500
miles of use
It later clarified, having seen some evidence of the spark plugs being repaired:
this would lead ourselves to believe that the fault with the spark plugs would have been
developing at the point of finance inception
However, the repairs (to the spark plugs in November 2020) do appear to have been
successful as the fault that was displayed in our inspection related to a lack of performance
and a potential turbo charger fault, therefore we would consider, the faults noted on the date
of our inspection would not have been developing or present at the point of finance
inception
Ive thought about this. But, I dont agree its likely, despite the difference in fault codes, that
the issue was repaired until the timing chain was replaced. I say this as Mr G says the earlier
repairs didnt resolve the issue. He brought the complaint to our service after this attempted
repair was carried out. And it is specifically noted that the performance was still slightly
lumpy after the spark plugs were initially replaced. I cant see that the repeated work on the
spark plugs wouldve resolved things when the earlier repairs seem to have been
unsuccessful.
But, there is a simpler reason why Im not persuaded by the conclusions of the independent
report. I say this as the reports conclusions that the faults werent present or developing at
the point of supply were based on the issues being:
an underlying fault with the vehicles engine management system and the turbocharger not
boosting
Thinking about how closely together the report was carried out and the timing chain repaired,
Im satisfied the issues noted in the report were in fact being caused by the timing chain 
not the turbo or engine management system. it follows that Im satisfied the conclusions inthe independent report about when the issues arose arent valid.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied its likely the car had an underlying fault that was
present or developing at the point of supply. Im satisfied this means the car wasnt of
satisfactory quality when Mr G acquired it. And Im satisfied this wasnt put right until the
repair in April 2021.
Ive then gone on to consider the other issues Mr G complains about.
Mr G says the parking sensors required a repair shortly after getting the car. But it appears
this was paid for by the dealer, so I dont need to make any findings here and Moneybarn
dont need to take any action.
Mr G also says the car had issues with the windscreen wipers and it required new tyres.
Both windscreen wipers and tyres are parts of the car that will suffer wear and tear and need
to be replaced as part of routine maintenance. I think, given the age and cost of the car here,
that a reasonable person would expect these items to be road worthy and safe when the car
was supplied. On balance, I think its most likely this was the case.
I also havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the issue with the exhaust was
present or developing at the point of supply. So, it follows I dont think Moneybarn needs to
take any action on these areas.
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right for Mr G.
Thinking about the CRA, a repair is one of the remedies available to him given the car
supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. So, given this has taken place, I need to think about
what else should happen.
I dont think its reasonable that Mr G should have to pay out for the costs of the attempted
repairs, diagnostics nor the final repair. So, Moneybarn should reimburse him for these
costs. I have considered whether it was reasonable of Mr G to get the spark plugs changed
multiple times. But, considering he had a diagnostic done at each point, Im satisfied he was
following advice from the garages here in good faith.
Im also satisfied that from the point Mr G got the car, to when it was repaired in April 2021,
that the car wasnt performing as he wouldve expected it to. So, I think Moneybarn should
reimburse him a proportion of his monthly repayments to reflect this impaired usage. I agree
with our investigator that 10% feels reasonable here.
I also agree with our investigator that Mr G has been caused distress and inconvenience
because of whats gone wrong. Hes had to take the car to be repaired multiple times and
pay for repairs out of his own pocket. I agree £150 is fair here.
Our investigator asked Moneybarn to further investigate the fault. But, given its been
repaired, Im satisfied it doesnt have to do this. It also does not need to allow Mr G to reject
the car as his rights under the CRA will have been met.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence.
Mr G responded and said he didnt have any more information for me to consider. 
Moneybarn didnt reply.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information on this case again, I still think it should be upheld. 
This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to do the 
following:
Reimburse Mr G £272.78 from 16 April 2020*
Reimburse Mr G £355 from 28 April 2020*
Reimburse Mr G £120.72 from 31 July 2020*
Reimburse Mr G £152.29 from 30 November 2020*
Reimburse Mr G £1,829.18 from 8 April 2021*
Reimburse Mr G 10% of all repayments made towards the agreement from when he 
got the car to 8 April 2021*
Pay Mr G £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to
the time of reimbursement. If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off.
It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman