DRN-3371775
The complaint
In summary the estate of the late Mrs D, complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc havent been 
able to locate the late Mrs Ds bank and savings accounts that they say she had with it.
What happened
The late Mrs D wrote to Barclays in March 2020 regarding a savings book she had found in 
relation to a Prime Gold account that she had with Woolwich, which had been part of the 
Barclays group.  Barclays wrote to the late Mrs D and explained that it had carried out a 
search and had been unable to locate any records in relation to the account. 
In 2021 Mr D, Mrs Ds husband, contacted Barclays to inform it that sadly Mrs D had passed 
away. He asked it to trace several accounts that the late Mrs D had with Barclays. In its 
responses Barclays explained that it couldnt locate any accounts with a credit balance or 
any records of dormant accounts.
Mr D wasnt happy with the responses he received, and he raised the complaint with our 
service on behalf of the estate. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. 
Mr Ds representative provided a copy of the late Mrs Ds will and death certificate. This 
showed that Mr D was the sole beneficiary and executor of the late Mrs Ds estate. The 
representative also explained that there was no grant of probate and that all of the late 
Mrs Ds estate passed to Mr D. 
The investigator explained why they didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr D 
and his representative responded outlining why they disagreed with what the investigator 
had said. The investigator replied to their concerns. The case has now been passed to me 
for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all, I would like to express my condolences to Mr D on the passing of the late Mrs D. I 
do appreciate that dealing with this issue must have been very difficult for him. And Im also 
sorry to hear that he hasnt been well. 
Although our service asked the representative for a copy of the grant of probate, the 
representatives response wasnt followed up. Ive made some assumptions regarding 
Mr Ds ability to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate. The will does indicate that Mr D 
is not only an executor of the late Mrs Ds estate, but also the sole beneficiary of the estate. 
So, Im assuming based on the information I do have that Mr D is likely to be authorised to 
bring the complaint on behalf of the estate. 
Its understandable having come across details of the late Mrs Ds old passbook and 
accounts, that Mr D has been concerned there might be still be monies in the accounts that 
havent been paid out. But the passbook and statement details Mr D has provided on behalf 
of the estate, in my opinion, only sets out information from 2005, 2007 and 1997. And it 
doesnt necessarily mean that any such accounts currently exist or that there are any 
outstanding balances to be paid. Its possible for example, that a new or replacement 
passbook might have been issued at some point.
Barclays has explained that it has carried out a search for the Prime Gold account and the 
OP4 Savers account that the late Mrs D had with the Woolwich. And it has explained that it 
couldnt locate any information for the Prime Gold account and that there was no evidence 
from its searches that the OP4 Savers account was transferred to Barclays. 
It has also said in relation to the OP4 Savers account that as the balance was zero on the 
Woolwich statement, this suggested the account was closed on or around 4 July 2007. And 
taking into account the available information, I dont think that is an unreasonable conclusion 
for Barclays to have reached.  
I understand that Mr D doesnt accept what Barclays has said in respect of these accounts, 
but I simply dont have enough evidence that shows the accounts still exist or that Barclays 
has done anything wrong. I wouldnt expect an organisation such as Barclays to keep 
customer records indefinitely. And given what Barclays has said about its processes, I would 
have expected there to be some record of the accounts if they had been in existence when 
accounts from Woolwich were migrated to Barclays. Given the length of time that has 
passed since the migration of Woolwich accounts to Barclays, I dont find it surprising that 
there is limited/no information about these accounts. 
Barclays has carried out a search of its current, dormant, and closed accounts in order to try 
and locate any accounts for the late Mrs D. The search screenshot and statements it has 
provided to our service, show details of the accounts the late Mrs D had with it. They show 
two bonds which were opened after the migration from Woolwich in 2007. Bond ..5968 was 
closed in November 2011 and Bond 1878 was closed in October 2016. There were also 
details of an Openplan current account.114 which was closed in July 2007 and an 
Everyday saver account524 that was closed in November 2011. So, Im satisfied from the 
information Ive seen that the accounts Mrs D had with Barclays were closed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman