DRN-3792970
The complaint
Miss W says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, irresponsibly lent to her 
and so must write off the outstanding balance on her card.
What happened
Miss W says 118 118 Money let her take out a credit card when she was already struggling 
financially. This has caused her stress and upset, impacting her mental and physical health. 
She wants 118 118 Money to close the account and write off the balance.
After Miss W complained to 118 118 Money it accepted it should have done better checks 
when Miss W applied and so agreed to refund all interest. It also said it would remove the 
account from Miss Ws credit file.
As Miss W wants the full balance writing off she came to this service. Our adjudicator did not 
uphold Miss Ws complaint. She said as Miss W had the benefit of the credit she borrowed 
we would expect her to repay that.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint. The parties are not in dispute that 
118 118 Money ought to have done more to check the lending was affordable for Miss W. 
What remains is dispute however is what the lender needs to do to put things right. 
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending is set out on our 
website, including how we instruct lenders to put things right if we find lending to have been 
irresponsible. I have followed that approach here.
As Miss W has had the benefit of the money she borrowed on her card we would expect her 
to repay that. But 118 118 Money must refund any interest and charges. It has already 
offered to do this, explaining that this card had no charges so there is only an intertest 
refund. This is for £306.16 and I understand this had already been credited to Miss Ws 
account. 
It is not clear from the lenders final response letter if it included interest in this refund so I 
will set out what was required for clarity. In line with our approach, as 118 118 Money knows, 
it must pay interest of 8% simple a year on this refund from the date the interest was paid to 
the date of settlement. If it didnt pay this interest it must now do so and let Miss W know 
how that reduces her balance. HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off 
tax from this interest. 118 118 Money must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one. 118 118 Money must also remove any adverse information 
about the card from Miss Ws credit file, but it has already organised this.
As there remains an outstanding balance that Miss W says she cannot repay, she should 
contact 118 118 Money to try to agree an affordable repayment plan. I would remind it to 
treat Miss W sympathetically and positively. Miss W will most likely need to complete an 
income and expenditure form to allow 118 118 Money to understand her current 
circumstances. I am sorry this has been difficult for Miss W. I note 118 118 Money has 
already provided details of third-party organisations who can support Miss W if she is having 
financial difficulties.
It follows I find 118 118 Money responded fairly and reasonable to Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman