DRN-3330407
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted him a loan
he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December last year. An extract from 
that provisional decision is set out below.
In February 2016, Mr F acquired a used car. He financed the deal through a hire purchase
agreement with Advantage. Mr F was required to make 36 monthly payments of £235.66,
with a final optional payment of £175 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the
agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £11,297.76 towards which Mr F
paid a deposit of £2,639.
Mr F says that Advantage didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage didnt agree. It said that it
carried out a thorough assessment reviewing bank statements and Mr Fs credit file. It said it
confirmed Mr Fs self-employment and that he lived in rented accommodation.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Advantage hadnt
carried our proportionate checks and ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable
for Mr F.
Advantage didnt agree. They noted that when they had completed a further credit check on
Mr F in 2018 it was apparent hed taken out several significant hire purchase agreements
with other companies to fund vehicles. They said they believed Mr F was setting up a taxi
business and that his income could therefore be expected to be significant. They also
suggested that as Mr F was taking receipt of a car for self-employed purposes it could be
expected to improve his earning potential. Advantage didnt agree with our adjudicators
suggested redress either. They noted that Mr F had completed about 150,000 miles in a little
over two years in the car and they said that was significantly more than average mileage and
must surely increase the usage figure the adjudicator had used in his calculations.
The case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the adjudicators opinion on this case I dont think hes calculated the
redress correctly. Ill explain.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Advantage didnt ask Mr F about his expenditure and havent provided evidence to suggest
the bank statements they say they had were used for this purpose. Although Advantage did
complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Fs regular living expenses were.
Without knowing what Mr Fs regular committed expenditure was, Advantage wouldnt have
got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore
didnt complete proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage to have found out more about Mr Fs
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Advantage
would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Fs bank
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision and
considered any monthly expenditure shown on the credit file. These show that Mr F was
paying about £1,085 towards his committed living expenditure including his rent, a loan,
credit card repayments, food and insurance. Bank statements also show that his average
earnings from taxi driving were around £1,400 per month when taking seasonal variations
into account. This demonstrates that Mr F didnt have enough disposable income to afford
the additional borrowing of about £235 per month as that would have left very little
disposable income from which to afford emergency expenditure or associated motoring
costs. Advantage therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
The fact that Mr F may have later established a taxi business does not affect the decision
taken at the time of application about whether this credit was affordable for Mr F, and I dont
accept the assertion that by funding a new vehicle there was a guarantee his income would
improve: that hadnt yet been demonstrated.
Putting things right
As I dont think Advantage ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all
the payments Mr F has made, including any deposit. However, as Advantage have pointed
out, Mr F did have considerable use of the car until he voluntarily terminated the agreement.
Advantage and our adjudicator have both suggested this voluntary termination happened
after 16 months, but I dont think that was the case. The agreement was signed in February
2016 and Mr F and Advantage have both advised us that it was voluntarily terminated in May
2018, 27 months later.
So, I think its fair Mr F pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly repayments of
over £235 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is because a
proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, Mr 
F likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have been
if he didnt have the vehicle. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr F should pay is £230 for
each month he had use of the car. This means Advantage can only ask Mr F to repay a total
of £6,210. Anything Mr F has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an
overpayment.
To settle Mr Fs complaint Advantage should do the following:
Refund the deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all the payments Mr F has made, less £6,210 for fair usage.o If Mr F has paid more than the fair usage figure, Advantage should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement, or;
o If Mr F has paid less than the fair usage figure, Advantage should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Advantage has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr F asks for one.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Finance Ltd to put things right in
the manner set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr F nor Advantage provided any further information, so I have not found any reason 
to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Advantage Finance Ltd to:
Refund the deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund all the payments Mr F has made, less £6,210 for fair usage.
o If Mr F has paid more than the fair usage figure, Advantage should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement, or;
o If Mr F has paid less than the fair usage figure, Advantage should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Advantage has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr F asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman