DRN-1429746
The complaint
Miss I complains about exchange rate costs suffered when she transferred funds to another 
country from her Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) account. She says it wasnt clear that the 
transfer was being made in Euros rather than Sterling. She would like the costs refunded.
What happened
Miss I wanted to transfer £20,000 to a friends account in another country. She hadnt made 
an overseas transfer before and visited a Barclays branch. It advised using online banking 
as there was no charge for the service. Miss I says she used online banking often, so she 
decided to make the transfer online. She completed the information requested and sent the 
transfer. She says she didnt realise that it was being sent in Euros rather than Sterling. This 
meant when it was received by the other Bank it was converted back into Sterling. The cost 
of the two exchange transactions meant £754.03 less than was expected was received by 
Miss Is friend.
Miss I complained to Barclays saying its system is confusing. She said it isnt obvious that 
the system defaults to Euros rather than Sterling and that she was given no help by the 
branch. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no bank error as it had 
processed the payment as instructed by Miss I. It said she hadnt amended the currency in 
the dropdown box on the system (from Euros) and had continued to confirm that the 
payment was to be sent in Euros through the rest of the process. It said if she wasnt sure 
how the system operated, she could have called it for assistance before completing the 
instruction.
Miss I referred her complaint to our service saying the process wasnt clear and there was 
no help from the branch and our investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said Barclays had confirmed that its standard practice was for branches to recommend 
the use of online banking because there is no bank charge for customers. She said this was 
reasonable. 
She said Barclays had provided screenshots of how its system worked. From these it was 
clear that the dropdown box for which currency is to be sent does default to Euros. But then 
provides the approximate amount of Euros to be sent once the Sterling amount of the 
transfer had been entered. She said the system then updates to the confirmation screen 
which clearly shows that X amount of Sterling is being sent at X exchange rate to provide 
X amount of Euros.  The next screen has a countdown timer for the exchange rate offered 
to be accepted and clearly stated the payee will receive Euros. Each of the three screens 
must be accepted before the payment is made.
Our investigator thought the system was clear and that Miss I did have the  opportunity to 
stop and check if she was unsure. So, our investigator said it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Barclays responsible for the loss. 
Miss I disagreed and said it wasnt reasonable that a UK banks system defaults to Euros 
rather than Sterling and it wasnt clear it did so. She said she thought the reference to Euros 
was for comparison purposes. And she asked why branches didnt offer help to customers. 
As Miss I doesnt agree it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss I, but I think Barclays online system is clear and it 
wouldnt be fair to blame it for the loss here. The official currency of the country Miss I was 
sending the funds to isnt Euros, but it isnt Sterling either. So, I dont think that an 
international payments system that defaults to Euros is unreasonable. I do think it is quite 
clear from the system that the transfer was going to be in Euros unless changed to another 
currency and it does need to be agreed to three times before being processed.
Miss I says Barclays failed to offer support at branch level and the staff member was 
incompetent. But online was the lower cost option for her and she did use online banking. 
And Barclays does make support for its online system available. So, I think Miss I could have 
checked if she was uncertain before confirming the payment or returned to a branch to make 
the payment there. 
Whilst this has been unfortunate and costly for Miss I, I dont think Barclays has done 
anything wrong here and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman