DRN-2163868
The complaint
Mr C says Close Brothers Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy for a hire purchase agreement that Mr C took out in 
2011. Mr C was sold the PPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Close Brothers disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I think Mr Cs PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Looking at the sales process, documents, and what both sides have said, I can see that this 
was an advised sale. That means Close Brothers had to check that the policy was right for 
Mr C and give him suitable advice. But I dont think the policy was right for him.
Mr C had a medical condition when he bought the policy, which wouldnt have been covered. 
And hed had a significant operation due to his condition. This policy not only prevented him 
from claiming for time off due to his condition, but for any time off resulting directly or 
indirectly from it  which couldve cast quite a wide net for things he couldnt claim for. This is 
especially concerning considering the range of serious complications that Mr C could 
potentially have suffered from  none of which wouldve been covered.
Ive listened to Mr Cs calls with Close Brothers. While the advisor mentioned the exclusion 
for pre-existing medical conditions, they did not make it clear just how much this couldve 
affected Mr C, nor did they make it clear that it might mean the policy wasnt right for him. 
I dont think its importance was highlighted  the conversation surrounding pre-existing 
conditions was notably brief and the advisor moved on quickly.
Close Brothers argued that it told Mr C about the exclusion, and so he was informed. But as 
this was an advised sale rather than a non-advised sale, Close Brothers had a duty not only 
to inform Mr C about the main exclusions, but to give him suitable advice, too. And instead, 
they recommended a policy to him which doesnt seem to have been suitable for him. 
I dont think Mr C wouldve bought the policy if Close Brothers had made clear it probably 
wasnt right for him. So I think Mr C has lost out because of the flaws in this sale. 
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited should:
Work out and pay Mr C the difference between what he paid each month and what he 
wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amounts Mr C paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Close Brothers can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Close Brothers Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman