DRN-4239531
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Enterprise Fund Limited trading as Business Finance Solutions 
didnt respond to his financial difficulties fairly.
What happened
Mr C took a business start-up loan from Business Finance Solutions. He explains he 
contacted it when his business hadnt taken off as he expected and was in financial 
difficulties. He is unhappy that it didnt offer any solution that wouldnt impact his credit 
record. And he doesnt think it has complied with regulations.
Business Finance Solutions said that Mr C has contacted it and asked if his monthly 
payments could be reduced including by extending his loan term. It responded to say that if 
he was experiencing financial difficulties it could offer a reduced payment plan to pay what 
was affordable and freeze interest. That would be based on his financial circumstances, and 
hed be required to complete an income and expenditure form. There would as a result be 
arrears reported to his credit record about the loan. Business Finance Solutions said that 
rescheduling the loan wasnt an option under this start-up loan scheme. And this wasnt a 
requirement of forbearance by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It also offered to 
provide details of free debt advice services especially if he had multiple creditors to deal 
with.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he didnt think 
that Business Finance Solutions had made a mistake taking into account FCA requirements. 
He said he would expect it to act sympathetically. And there was no set action it had to take 
 or a requirement that it shouldnt report the true position of the loan to credit reference 
agencies. He thought that Business Finance Solutions could have handled a call better with 
Mr C about this on 4 April 2023. But he didnt think that this warranted any compensation.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint as he didnt 
think further dialogue with our investigator would be productive. He didnt think that his 
complaint has been understood or the FCA requirements. What was said wasnt reflective of 
his financial position as he wasnt in arrears or default and the reference to the part of the 
FCA Handbook the investigator had provided him doesnt apply. Mr C said he hadnt 
received forbearance, due consideration and sympathetic treatment. If Business Finance 
Solutions had applied all of these there would be no complaint. He wants things looked at 
properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and isnt the regulator. Ill take into account 
relevant regulations and guidance in making my assessment.
My understanding from the information provided is that Mr C signed this loan agreement for 
his business on 1 November 2022. The amount borrowed was £4,750 and was to be repaid 
at £91.90 a month for 60 months. Ive also seen his business plan in which he sets out his 
cashflow forecast for the first year. Within the plan is a specific section asking about how 
hed be able to meet his loan repayments and personal expenditure if his business was to 
fail. And he refers there to his savings and confidence in finding a job as a back up plan. The 
reason Ive referred to that is because it is clearly a potential concern that he had contacted 
Business Finance Solutions by 28 March 2023 about the affordability of the payments.
There is no right within the loan agreement to vary the term or to take a contractual payment 
holiday. And Business Finance Solutions has said it doesnt provide the option to extend the 
term of the loan. The loan agreement refers to the consequences of payments being missed.
The reason Mr C is asking to renegotiate the term and reduce the payments is due to 
financial difficulties. Id expect Business Finance Solutions to assess his financial position 
before it took any action. And it refers to requiring his latest income and expenditure 
information which is reasonable. Whether Mr C was actually in arrears or as here believed 
he would be without action to me doesnt alter the principles including the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically. That doesnt mean that Business Finance Solutions had to 
offer any particular solution of forbearance to him. Here it has set out the option of a 
payment plan, subject to an assessment of his financial position. It has highlighted that this 
will result in arrears to the contractual agreement which would be reported. It has also 
referred to there being free debt advice services available.
Clearly this isnt what Mr C wants and that is his complaint and there was a difficult 
conversation with Business Finance Solutions about this. But I dont see any error here or 
unfairness in its response. I note our investigator has given Mr C the opportunity to refer to 
any particular terms or guidance he wanted to rely on and which he thinks hasnt been taken 
into account. While I understand his position and frustration and the difficulties he explains 
with his start-up business Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require Business 
Finance Solutions to do anything further. If he does not accept my decision he remains free 
to pursue this matter in court and subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman