DRN-3832770
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service received from British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr P and British Gas. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr P had a Homecare policy with British Gas. He raised a complaint about the service hed 
received, which British Gas responded to on 14 April 2022. In their final response letter 
British Gas offered Mr P a £75 goodwill payment for his experience. Mr P accepted this offer. 
After the final response had been issued, Mr P contacted British Gas on 13 May 2022 as he 
hadnt received the payment of £75. Mr P remained unhappy and he referred the complaint 
to our Service. 
Our Investigator made contact with Mr P and clarified what he was complaining about. Mr P 
clarified that his complaint was about the ongoing general service hed received from British 
Gas after they made their offer and them asking for unreasonable evidence - such as bank 
statements to show he hadnt received the £75. Mr P also said his email address was 
blocked when he complained. 
British Gas told our Service that after Mr P accepted their goodwill offer, he contacted them 
again to say he hadnt received it, but that it was now showing as a completed payment on 
their system. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint, but recommended that the bulk of Mr Ps 
complaint wasnt something our Service could consider  as it related to complaint handling. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators recommendations and the complaint was referred to me 
for a jurisdiction decision. 
I recently set out what elements of this complaint our Service can and cant consider further. 
The parts of the complaint I can consider will be addressed in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
The delay in making payment and the request for evidence from Mr P
It will undoubtedly have been frustrating for Mr P believing that British Gas hadnt made the 
payment of £75 theyd offered him. But when Ive considered the evidence and the reasons 
for the delay, I dont find that British Gas have treated Mr P poorly to the extent that further 
compensation would be appropriate here.
I say this because British Gas have shared with us evidence of payment. It appears that 
payment was made on 19 April 2022 - shortly after the FRL was issued. Mr P has told us 
hed expected payment to be made to a different account. 
Whilst this may have been an unfortunate mix up, Im satisfied the money was paid to Mr P 
within a reasonable time frame. It follows that (based on their understanding that they had 
made payment), it wasnt unreasonable of British Gas to request evidence from Mr P that he 
hadnt received payment to his expected bank account. 
The address used
Mr P expressed concern that in some correspondence to him British Gas had used an 
incorrect address. British Gas have explained this was an error. Mr P hasnt shown that hes 
lost out or suffered detriment because of this error. But in any case, should he have any 
concerns about how British Gas handle customer data, these would be best directed to    
The Information Commissioners Office (The ICO).
I appreciate my decision may disappoint Mr P, but it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve his dispute with British Gas.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman