DRN-2533412
The complaint
Mr N complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and the way they handled his contents 
insurance claim after he was burgled.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr N renewed his building and contents insurance policy with Aviva.
Unfortunately, in March 2020, Mr Ns home was burgled. Aviva separated his buildings and 
contents claims, as they were handled by different agents of Aviva. Mr N was satisfied with 
the way his buildings claim was handled, but not his contents claim.
Due to the value of the items taken from Mr Ns home, Aviva passed Mr Ns claim to one of 
their agents, who Ill refer to as H, to manage the claim. But Mr N was unhappy with H, so he 
raised a complaint. Mr N complained about the length of time it was taking H to progress his 
claim and their lack of updates to him. Aviva upheld this complaint and paid Mr N £150 to 
recognise the upset this caused. 
But Mr N was also unhappy with the way his claim had been settled. He was unhappy that H 
had originally offered him a full cash settlement before retracting this when they realised he 
had a £10,000 contents limit on his policy. And he was unhappy with the subsequent offers 
H proposed as he felt these offers changed each time he spoke to them for clarification. He 
thought this elongated the conclusion of the claim and has caused him a lot of distress and 
inconvenience. So, Mr N wanted Aviva to honour the original cash offer H made or pay him 
£500 to recognise the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Aviva didnt agree. They thought H had settled the claim fairly, as Mr N was receiving a 
higher total compensation package that his policy allowed. They recognised the offers had 
changed but thought this as because Mr N had changed the way he wanted to replace the 
stolen items. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt offer to do anything 
more. Mr N remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought the offers H had made 
had confused Mr N. And she thought this wouldve been frustrating for Mr N as it elongated 
the settlement of his claim. But she recognised Mr N had a £10,000 limit to his claim and the 
settlement he eventually received was worth more than this. So, she thought Aviva should 
pay Mr N £150 to recognise Hs incorrect original cash offer, and the confusion Mr N was 
caused. But she didnt think Aviva should honour the original settlement H suggested.
Mr N didnt agree. He thought the upset hed been caused dealing with H and the multiple 
offers was worth more than £150. So, he wanted this amount to be increased. And Aviva 
didnt think theyd made any errors that warranted a £150 compensation payment. As neither 
party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im aware Aviva have already paid Mr N £150 to recognise the delays caused by H when 
they were instructed to manage the claim, up until Avivas response in August 2020. I think 
this is a fair offer, and Ive seen its one Mr N accepted. So, I wont be considering this aspect 
of Mr Ns complaint any further.
My decision has focused on Mr Ns complaint about the settlement options H provided, and 
whether they acted unfairly and unreasonably when doing so.
Its not in dispute that H initially offered Mr N a cash settlement that exceeded his policy limit. 
And when this was realised, they then looked to offer Mr N a settlement that included a 
voucher, gem card and a cash settlement together. Hs relationship with Aviva meant they 
could offer discount on the vouchers provided to Mr N, meaning the retail value of his 
settlement could exceed £10,000. 
Ive seen the final settlement Mr N accepted, which totalled £13,305.59. And Ive seen that 
this also exceeded the £10,000 limit on Mr Ns policy, as Aviva had to pay H more than this 
amount. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Aviva had settled the claim 
unfairly as Mr N has been left is a better financial position than his policy insured him for.
But I have seen there was some confusion during the settlement of the claim. This began 
when H mistakenly offered a cash settlement of more than £10,000, which fell outside of Mr 
Ns policy limits. As H were working as an agent of Aviva, the responsibility for this mistake 
falls on Aviva. And after this was rectified, I can see there were several different offers put 
forward to Mr N. While I do recognise these offered changed as Mr N decided to purchase 
different items to replace the ones thatd been stolen, I dont think H effectively explained 
why the offers changed. 
In particular, I dont think H made it clear to Mr N that the B voucher could only be used to 
purchase certain brands of watch. And when Mr N asked why the total settlement offer had 
been reduced when the type of voucher changed, I dont think H did enough to explain why 
this was or how it was calculated. So, I think the service Mr N received fell below what Id 
expect, and I think Aviva should compensate Mr N for this.
Putting things right
As I think H did something wrong, and Aviva are responsible for this, Ive thought about what 
I think Aviva should do to put things right. Any award I make is intended to place Mr N back 
in the position he wouldve been, had the mistakes not occurred.
In this situation, I think the settlement Mr N received was a fair one for the reasons explained 
above.
But I think H failed to manage Mr Ns expectations when they offered a cash settlement 
above the policy limit initially. And I think it wouldve been upsetting and frustrating for Mr N 
to then be told he couldnt receive a full cash settlement for this amount. And I think Mr N 
was caused some confusion as he was provided with several settlement alternatives, all of 
which calculated to different total settlement amounts. While I dont think these were 
calculated incorrectly, I think this wouldve been frustrating for Mr N as he was unable to determine what his most preferable option was. So, this led to Mr N contacting H on several 
occasions requesting clarification. And this elongated the claim process, meaning it took 
longer for Mr N to receive the final settlement that allowed him to purchase replacements for 
the items that were stolen.
Taking all of the above into account, I think the £150 offer recommended by our investigator 
is a fair one, and it falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it not already been 
suggested. So, I think Aviva should pay Mr N £150 to recognise the issues he faced when 
trying to agree a suitable settlement with H.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr N was hoping for. But, ultimately, I think he received a 
fair settlement. And I dont think the settlement offers put to him were incorrect or intended to 
put him in a worsened financial position. For these reasons, I think the £150 is a fair one to 
recognise the impact he was caused, and I hope it goes some way to providing him with 
closure to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited 
and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr N £150 to recognise the difficulties he faced when attempting to agree a 
suitable settlement figure with H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman