DRN-3535302
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLC deciding to close his accounts and how it dealt with 
the circumstances around this.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M complained that Lloyds staff were working from home and that he 
didnt feel comfortable that his data was secure because of this. He says that when trying to 
speak to Lloyds, he was on hold for a long time and at one point heard a baby crying on the 
phone.
Lloyds responded and explained that although there was a technical issue with the call, this 
was its standard process because of the issues posed by Covid-19. It reassured him that his 
data was secure and that this method of working wouldnt impact him. But it did say that in 
view of this complaint and others he had raised previously, it would be closing Mr Ms 
accounts held across the banking group.
Mr M was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service, adding that he was 
particularly unhappy that one member of staff dealt with a number of his complaints and he 
felt this was discriminatory. He also thought someone from Lloyds should have called him 
before responding to his complaints.
One of our investigators looked into this and initially said that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly 
here. They said that, as a business, Lloyds was free to deal with complaints as it wished and 
was entitled to close his accounts on that basis. Mr M disagreed and said that the 
investigator hadnt covered the fact he felt discriminated by the same person looking at a 
number of his complaints. He said he made arrangements based on being told the accounts 
had been closed when they hadnt. He was concerned about the implications of applying for 
a new credit card until the situation with his existing account was confirmed. He also said he 
had been disadvantaged by not being able to use or benefit from the accounts and the 
relevant benefits.
Our investigator then looked into things again and noted that several of Mr Ms accounts 
hadnt been closed as Lloyds said they would be. Lloyds explained that this was an oversight 
that occurred because of when Mr M referred his complaint to this service. It said that to 
correct this it would now arrange for the accounts which remained open to be closed and to 
send the required notice prior to this.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds should offer compensation for the impact this oversight had 
on Mr M. She felt that Lloyds should pay £100 and Lloyds agreed to offer that amount. But 
Mr M disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are a few different parts to Mr Ms complaint here. Mr M has provided a lot of detail 
about his complaint and spoken to me about his concerns too. I expect that hell likely be 
disappointed in my findings here and perhaps with the level of detail Ive gone into. But Id 
like to reassure him that Ive considered everything hes told us and sent us. Ive just focused 
on what I need to in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances here  in line with our quick and informal role as a service. 
Lloyds has made the decision to close Mr Ms accounts here and provided customer service 
across his overall holdings with the banking group its a part of, so Ill be referring to that as 
the relevant business here.
Lloyds decision to close Mr Ms accounts
Much as a customer is free to choose who they bank with or borrow from, a bank like Lloyds 
is entitled who it offers banking facilities to and to review whether its still willing to provide 
services to existing customers too. Here, Lloyds took account of the number of complaints 
Mr M had raised over recent years, along with his recent conduct and made a decision to 
close his accounts with it.
Thats a decision it was entitled to make as a business and one which the terms and 
conditions explain that it can make too. Those terms explain that if Lloyds closes an account 
because of a customers behaviour it wont give any notice. But if it closes an account for 
any other reason then itll give two months notice and thats the notice period it gave here. 
So I think it was entitled to take the action it did and Im satisfied it did so correctly and gave 
fair notice, in line with the relevant terms.
Id add that this wasnt a decision that was made without context. Ive seen a response to a 
complaint from August 2020 which explained that if Mr M made further complaints that 
werent upheld, or continued what it felt to be unreasonable behaviour then it may close his 
accounts. When Mr M raised another complaint and it wasnt upheld, thats what Lloyds did  
so I think it provided sufficient notice of the fact it might take this action. 
Mr M says he didnt receive this letter warning him until after he contacted Lloyds again and 
if he did receive it sooner, he may have acted differently. But this letter was sent correctly 
and so I think its fair that Lloyds considered that it had warned him about his conduct here. I 
realise this may have been delivered late due to the circumstances at the time, but thats not 
something I can fairly say that Lloyds is responsible for.
Mr M also said that many of his complaints actually resulted in Lloyds admitting that it had 
acted wrongly. But I think its fair to say that when viewed impartially, I can see why Lloyds 
perceived the relationship between it and Mr M as having broken down at the point it said it 
would be closing his accounts. This was taken against a background of what Lloyds felt was 
unacceptable behaviour and a large number of complaints being made. 
I have no doubt that Mr M doesnt see his behaviour, or the number of complaints he made, 
as unreasonable. I accept his point that some of his complaints were upheld and Lloyds 
accepted that it hadnt always done exactly what it should have in the past. But I have to 
consider things from both side and here - Lloyds felt that the number of complaints and 
Mr Ms behaviour with it werent something it was prepared to deal with. These are reasons 
that its entitled to close accounts for. Mr M has mentioned the difficult circumstances people 
were going through around the time he started complaining to Lloyds. But in the 
circumstances, I still think Lloyds was entitled to exercise its discretion to close the accounts 
here.Lloyds also told Mr M that it would be closing his accounts across its wider banking group for 
the same reasons too. I can see why Mr M would be unhappy with that, as it means that he 
might not be able to use the services of this group if he needs it in the future. But in line with 
the above, thats a decision a bank is entitled to make. Its not for this service to tell a bank 
who it should and shouldnt do business with. Where Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to 
close the accounts here  it follows that I dont think it acted unreasonably in saying that itd 
be taking this decision across Mr Ms other holdings with the group too.
Mr M has mentioned that he transferred into a Lloyds account from an account elsewhere 
around the time he was told his accounts would close. While I accept that the timing of 
Lloyds decision here was unfortunate for him, it did give Mr M a sufficient period of notice to 
make alternative arrangements in light of its decision.
How Lloyds dealt with the situation
Mr M has said that he was discriminated against and treated unfairly because one member 
of staff dealt with several of his complaints. Lloyds is entitled to decide how best to deal with 
the complaints customers raise. Having one member of staff deal with a number of 
complaints can be perceived as a good thing and a bad thing. On the one hand, it can be 
viewed as one person having a better idea of the wider context of a customers issues. On 
the other, it can lead to someone feeling that their complaints havent been looked at fairly.
So while Lloyds is entitled to appoint one member of staff to look at multiple complaints, Ive 
thought about whether by doing so here, it was acting fairly and whether this disadvantaged 
Mr M. In my view, it didnt. The member of staff that dealt with Mr Ms case did so 
consistently and Im satisfied that they represented the bank as a business in doing so. 
Theres no evidence of the sort of personal vendetta that Mr M has mentioned. What that 
member of staff told Mr M about the reasons for the account closure and the actions to be 
taken were backed up by previous situations, evidence and by the terms and conditions. So 
while I know Mr M will disagree, I dont think its likely that things would have been any 
different if another member of staff looked at these complaints separately.
Mr M has raised an issue with one call that he had with Lloyds when he was concerned 
about a call in which he heard a baby crying. Ive listened to that call and I couldnt hear that, 
but its clear that there were issues with this call. Lloyds has explained that this was because 
that member of staff was having phone problems at the time, which I think is a reasonable 
explanation.
I realise that Mr M is also unhappy that on occasion Lloyds hasnt sought to speak to him 
before formally responding to complaints. Hes explained that when hes had further 
questions in respect of certain letters that this hasnt happened. I can understand Mr Ms 
frustrations that Lloyds hasnt necessarily done what he thinks it should  but it has 
responded to his complaints in line with its internal processes and with referral rights to this 
service, as the relevant rules say it should. 
Its not for this service to tell a bank like Lloyds what its complaint handling procedures 
should be. But here, Im satisfied that Lloyds has responded to Mr Ms complaints 
appropriately and that the way its dealt with them has meant that hes been able to escalate 
these to this service.
Thats not to say that Lloyds has acted entirely correctly and fairly here though. It told Mr M, 
in no uncertain terms, that it would be closing all his accounts and then didnt do that fully for 
over a year. Its explained that this was because there was an administrative oversight on its 
systems which happened when Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Im satisfied that 
this is the genuine reason behind the issue  but it remains that this isnt fair on Mr M.Mr M has explained that he held off opening a new credit card until Lloyds confirmed the 
situation with his accounts. He says he lost out on benefits and rewards that he could have 
gained if he knew he could have used the accounts during this time. But Lloyds mistake was 
in not closing the accounts when it should have. So had it done what it should have, he 
wouldnt have had access to these accounts for the period of time he eventually did, even if 
he didnt use them.
Mr M has said that he held off applying for another credit card while he was unaware of the 
situation with the Lloyds card. But I havent seen anything to support a clear financial loss 
that itd be fair to expect Lloyds to put right here. Instead I think whats appropriate is for 
Lloyds to pay Mr M compensation for the distress and inconvenience this issue caused.
Lloyds sent further notice that itd be closing Mr Ms other accounts and has now confirmed 
that they have now all been closed. Its also offered £100 compensation for this. Ultimately, 
its taken Lloyds a long time to do something it told him it would do within a certain 
timeframe. For the impact this had, I think £100 is fair and so Lloyds should pay him that if 
he accepts this decision. But in respect of the other complaint points, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr M £100 for not closing all his 
accounts when it said it would. I make no further award against it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman