DRN-3619255
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that she was able to extend the term of her endowment with Phoenix Life 
Limited by ten years, but the waiver of premium cover was not extended for the same term.
What happened
Miss E took out an endowment in 1995 that was due to mature in June 2020. This policy was 
later taken over by Phoenix Life. In May 2020, Miss E was sent a letter from Phoenix Life 
explaining that she could either cash her policy in at the original maturity date the following 
month, or extend it for a further ten years. The letter included information about the cost of 
extending the cover and the benefits this came with. Miss E chose to extend.
Miss E was unwell and contacted Phoenix Life to claim on her waiver of premium (WoP) 
cover. This was a feature that came with the policy when it was sold in 1995 and meant that 
the premiums would be paid for Miss E if she successfully claimed. She was informed that 
the WoP ended when she turned 60 years old, as per the original policy terms, so this cover 
was due to expire shortly.
Miss E complained to Phoenix Life. She said that she extended her endowment term on the 
basis that the WoP was also being extended for a further ten years. She said she wasnt told 
that it would expire when she turned 60, if shed known this, she wouldnt have extended the 
term. Phoenix Life didnt uphold her complaint as it said that shed extended her policy on 
the same terms as before and it hadnt agreed to extend the WoP cover.
Miss E brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint as 
she said that Phoenix Life hadnt agreed to extend the WoP. Miss E asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has said Phoenix Life offered for her to extend her policy for a further ten years, on 
the same terms provided for under her initial policy, which included the WoP cover. I agree it 
did this. But I therefore cant agree it has made a mistake here. As she has said, it agreed to 
extend on the same terms. When it agreed to extend her endowment it didnt change the 
terms she had, so this meant she got WoP cover, but only until she was 60, as per the 
original terms. I accept the letter does state she will have WoP cover if she extends and at 
what level. But as above, this isnt inaccurate, as in June 2020 she did have this benefit  
she wasnt yet 60.
I understand Miss E didnt realise that the WoP cover wouldnt also be extended for ten 
further years. And I accept that the letter she received doesnt set this out specifically. But it 
also doesnt set out that any of the original policy terms have changed. Its clear that shes 
being offered a ten-year extension to her policy  but that is the endowment policy itself. It 
doesnt state anywhere that the other terms or benefits are impacted by this extension.
I understand Miss Es disappointment that she doesnt have cover beyond 60 years old, as 
this isnt the state retirement age anymore. But at the time the policy was written, and Miss E 
agreed to it, this was the age she wouldve been due to retire. So the benefit wouldnt be 
payable past 60, as at this time the policy holder shouldve retired and so couldnt claim 
when not working as they would no longer be working.
Miss E didnt receive advice from Phoenix Life when she decided to extend the term of her 
policy. So I cant hold it responsible for not assessing her circumstances. It also didnt 
recommend that she extend, she was given the choice and made this decision herself. 
Miss E has said that WoP was a big part of her decision to extend, but considering this and 
the fact that the original terms stated it expired when she was 60, I think she ought to have 
confirmed her understanding with Phoenix Life. She instead assumed that this benefit would 
also extend when the paperwork didnt state this. I understand her disappointment, but I 
dont agree Phoenix Life has done anything wrong or that it should now offer her this cover 
until her policy matures.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman