DRN-4237639
The complaint
Mrs I complains about the service provided by Close Brothers Limited trading as Close 
Brothers Premium Finance (CB) when she wanted to change the date of her direct debit 
payment. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr I emailed CB on behalf of Mrs I asking to change the payment date for 
Mrs Is insurance payment. CB responded to Mr I and said it needed authorisation from Mrs I 
to make the change. 
Mr I told CB that Mrs I had already provided this authorisation and asked again for the 
payment date to be changed. 
CB apologised for the confusion and explained they couldnt move the payment to the date 
that Mr I had requested. They gave a date they could move the payment to and told Mr I if 
he contacted the broker of the policy, he may be able to move the payment to the date hed 
asked for. 
In late November 2022 CB sent a letter to Mrs I to tell her that her recent direct debit was 
unsuccessful, and theyd try to collect it again at the beginning of December 2022. 
Mr I called and made the payment for November and December, and CB waived a £30 
payment default fee as a gesture of goodwill. The payment date was later changed at the 
request of Mr I. 
Mr I complained to CB in November 2022. He said he was unhappy with the letter that CB 
sent, and that the payment date hadnt been changed. He said he was also unhappy about 
being told he didnt have authorisation to deal with the account. 
CB responded to Mr I in December 2022 to say that he was only authorised on a previous 
agreement. CB sent Mrs I their final response to Mr Is complaint in January 2023. They said 
the authorisation provided on Mrs Is previous agreement was not valid for this new one, and 
so they had incorrectly discussed Mrs Is account with Mr I. the payment date was changed 
back, and CB apologised and paid £50 compensation for the poor service. 
Following the final response Mrs I provided authorisation for Mr I to discuss her agreement, 
and asked for the payment date to be changed. The payment date was changed by CB in 
mid-January 2023. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr I brought Mrs Is complaint to this service for investigation. 
He said hed spent a lot of time trying to resolve the situation, which was added to when CB 
reset the payment date after hed changed it in December 2022. Mr I said there was a clear 
breach of Mrs Is data when CB discussed the account with him, and the £50 compensation 
wasnt sufficient. 
Our investigator gave her view that she was unable to award compensation to Mr I as he 
wasnt named on the agreement. She felt the compensation of £50 and waiving the fee of 
£30 was fair in the circumstances and didnt ask CB to do anything more. 
Mrs I didnt agree. She said CB shouldnt have accepted payments or moved the payment 
dates when they had no authorisation for Mr I to deal with the agreement, she didnt accept 
the £50 compensation, and this was paid without her acceptance. Mrs I didnt feel the 
compensation was reasonable, and said that the distress and inconvenience that Mr I 
experienced affected her as well, and this should be considered. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I was provided with a running account credit agreement by CB in order to pay her 
insurance premiums over 12 months. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, which 
means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Its not in dispute that CB provided poor service to Mrs I. Theyve acknowledged that they 
caused confusion about whether Mr I had authorisation to deal with Mrs Is account, and that 
they discussed her account with Mr I without authorisation and amended her payment date 
without this authorisation. 
Mr I is now authorised to handle Mrs Is agreement with CB, and the payment date has been 
changed to the one Mr I originally asked for. 
So, Ive focussed on whether the compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I can see that Mr I was put to distress and inconvenience in attempting to change the 
payment date when he asked to, and that CB provided conflicting information about whether 
he was authorised to deal with Mrs Is agreement. I know that Mr I feels strongly about the 
service provided by CB, and the affect this has had on his own health. I must explain that as 
Mr I is not a customer of CB, with the agreement being only in Mrs Is name, I cant make an 
award for the distress and inconvenience he has personally experienced. 
Mrs I has set out how Mr Is distress and inconvenience also caused her the same. I 
appreciate that this will be the case, but I must consider that it was Mr I that spent the time 
calling and emailing CB in order to resolve the situation. 
So, whilst I dont doubt that Mrs I was caused distress and inconvenience, having 
considered all of the evidence and circumstances, Im satisfied that the £50 compensation 
that CB have paid was a fair amount to compensate Mrs I for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her as a result of the poor service provided, alongside waiving the £30 default 
payment fee when the November 2022 payment failed. 
Mrs and Mr I have expressed their concern about the breach of Mrs Is data. Ive thought 
about this, and Im not persuaded that CB discussing Mrs Is account with Mr I was 
detrimental to her. She ultimately provided the authorisation for Mr I to make changes to her 
agreement, and Im satisfied that she wanted him to have this authorisation from the start. 
Mrs I may wish to contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if she remains 
concerned about CBs handling of her data. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman