DRN-3999654
The complaint
Miss C complains about the repairs carried out following a claim on her home insurance with 
AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
Miss C is the leaseholder of a flat that benefits from a policy in place for the building. The 
policy is underwritten by AXA. 
In April 2021 she made a claim after her flat was damaged following a storm. AXA accepted 
the claim and its contractor completed repairs.
However Miss C was unhappy with the standard of repairs to the inside of her flat and the 
contractor attended the flat twice to carry out snagging works. After the second visit Miss C 
remained unhappy and complained to AXA. 
AXA offered another visit from the contractor but Miss C declined. It therefore sent a different 
contractor to attend to assess the remaining issues. He put together an arbitration report that 
concluded no further work was required. 
Unhappy with this Miss C made a complaint. In response AXA offered £75 compensation to 
make up for the poor work that had had to be redone to date. However it said the remaining 
issues were due to wear and tear so it wouldnt carry out any further work. 
Miss C didnt agree, she said there were lots of examples of poor paintwork and other 
repairs that needed re-doing. She said as she didnt want the contractors to re-attend shed 
accept a cash settlement. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. So Miss C asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by a ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no doubt that AXAs contractors initially carried out poor repairs following Miss Cs 
claim. As theyve since reattended twice to put things right. However Miss C says there are 
still outstanding issues that need to be rectified. 
In response to this AXA has offered to send its contractors to attend again. And as Miss C 
didnt agree to this, instead they instructed a contractor to complete an arbitration report on 
what is outstanding. This report was based on an in person visit from a contractor and it 
concluded that due to wear and tear present before the claim, the contractors had done the 
best they could to repair the damage in the conditions. And said no further work is required. 
As AXAs contractor has concluded this following an inspection, I dont think it unreasonable 
that AXA has declined to take any further action. 
Ive also considered the large volume of images sent by both sides. I can see areas in those 
provided by Miss C where the paintwork isnt even and some where there are small splashes 
of paint in different areas. However Ive also looked at photos of the property before the 
damage was repaired and I can see the decoration of the home was showing signs of wear 
and tear. 
Based on this, I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably. Its offered to have its contractors 
attend again to rectify anything that Miss C thinks should have been done as part of the 
claim. And its gone on to instruct a further report that concludes the claim repairs are now 
completed to standard. And I think these were fair and reasonable steps to take to conclude 
the claim. 
Further its confirmed that should Miss C still have concerns then its contractors are still 
willing to attend. And I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances.
However, while I agree AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in their response to Miss Cs 
request for additional work, I also agree that the repairs should have been carried out to a 
good standard in the first place and Miss C shouldnt have needed to have them reattend 
twice. And the fact this has happened has caused her additional distress and inconvenience. 
AXA has offered £75 to apologise for this and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
So based on all the evidence, Im satisfied AXA has done enough to fairly resolve the 
complaint and I wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman