DRN-3544069
The complaint
Ms W complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and its failure to process her chargebacks 
correctly. 
What happened
Ms Ws complaint relates to two separate transactions. 
The first one related to a purchase on an online marketplace. Ms W raised a dispute 
regarding the transaction on 19 August 2021. HSBC requested supporting documents from 
Ms W on 25 August 2021. And Ms W says nothing happened after that, and she didnt 
receive the funds back. 
The second transaction took place in March 2021 and was for £78. The retailer refunded Ms 
W £39 directly. Ms W raised a dispute regarding that transaction on 15 September 2021. 
HSBC wrote to Ms W to say it was unable to assist her with the chargeback since she raised 
the dispute outside of the 120-day timescale. 
Ms W wasnt happy with the fact that HSBC failed to act in the first transaction, and then 
refused to help with the second transaction. And so she complained. 
HSBC explained it has 120 days from the date of the transaction to raise a dispute as set out 
by the scheme rules. It said Ms W raised a dispute regarding an online marketplace 
transaction on 19 August. On 25 August its Disputes team requested supporting documents 
from Ms W but these werent received. And so the matter remained outstanding. As a 
gesture of goodwill HSBC paid the transaction amount of £44.99 into her bank account. 
HSBC said the second transaction for £78 wasnt fully reimbursed since the dispute wasnt 
raised within the relevant timescales. And so it wrote to Ms W explaining this. It said the 
retailer refunded £39 to Ms W and as a gesture of goodwill HSBC paid the remaining £39.00 
into her account. HSBC also paid Ms W £50 for the delay in dealing with the chargeback 
regarding the online marketplace, and for any phone calls she had to make about this.
Ms W wasnt happy with the response from HSBC and so our investigator looked into things 
for her. Our investigator recognised the upset Ms W felt as shed failed to receive the funds 
back. But he didnt think HSBC made an error when it wrote to Ms W to explain it was unable 
to raise the dispute regarding the second transaction of £78 since it was out of time. He also 
said he thought £50 HSBC had paid was fair, together with the refund for the value of her 
claim. 
Since Ms W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that my decision relates only to the complaint about the 
chargebacks. I know Ms W has other complaints with the service but it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment on those. 
Firstly, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms W. I understand how 
frustrating and upsetting this must have been. I want to reassure Ms W that I have 
considered the evidence provided to me both by her and the bank.
HSBC said it wrote to Ms W regarding the first transaction to request supporting documents. 
Ms Ws claim remained outstanding but HSBC have accepted an error was made in 
processing this transaction. And this accounted for the delay in Ms W receiving her funds. As 
a result of the error HSBC has paid Ms W the value of the claim, and a further £50 for the 
delay and to cover the cost of any calls she had to make to it regarding this. And so whilst 
HSBC accepted it made an error I think refunding Ms W and paying her £50 is a fair 
resolution, and in line with what I would have suggested had it not already been offered and 
paid.  
The time limits of chargeback claims are set by the card providers scheme rules. In this 
case they set out there is a 120-day time limit. So the time for HSBC to submit a claim for 
the second transaction had expired by the time Ms W raised the dispute. And this meant 
HSBC were unable to submit the chargeback. I dont think the timescale was missed by an 
error HSBC made and because of this I am unable to say it did anything wrong here. It wrote 
to Ms W explaining it was unable to assist with the chargeback. And this is what I would 
have expected it to do. As a gesture of goodwill HSBC refunded Ms W with the remaining 
£39 for that transaction. And so Im pleased to see Ms W didnt ultimately lose out financially 
here. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms W was hoping for. But I hope it explains why I have 
come to the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC Bank Plc has already done to 
put things right for Ms W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. 
And Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman