DRN-2829354
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tilney Asset Management Services Limited fail to make him aware of 
enhanced annuities when they advised him in 2010. He says as a result, he missed out on 
securing a higher income from an enhanced annuity. 
What happened
Mr C held two personal pensions with AXA. A stakeholder scheme and a group pension 
scheme.
In 2010 Tilney gave Mr C a personal recommendation to purchase two annuities. One with 
Canada Life using the stakeholder pension and one from AXA using the funds from the 
group pension scheme. 
The annuities were based on level, joint life terms. So, they wouldnt increase in value but 
Mr Cs wife would receive a 50% spouses pension.
Mr C followed Tilneys advice and purchase the recommended annuities in early 2010. 
In 2020, Mr C was contacted by another firm (Firm B) who had provided a separate annuity 
to those recommended by Tilney. Firm B asked Mr C to complete a questionnaire about any 
existing medical conditions he had when they sold him his annuity. As Mr C had suffered 
from medical conditions at the time of the advice, he says Firm B enhanced his annuity 
payments.
In October 2020, Mr C complained to Tilney. He said his annuities with Canada Life and 
AXA should have been set up on an enhanced basis due to his medical conditions. He said 
Tilney had never asked him about his health during the advice process and as a result hes 
lost out on receiving a higher income.   
In their response Tilney said that theyd completed a client questionnaire with Mr C in 
November 2008 which recorded that he didnt have any health conditions. When the annuity 
advice was provided in early 2010, they said Mr C confirmed that there had been no 
changes to his circumstances since the client questionnaire had been completed. 
Furthermore, in their recommendation letter Tilney said there was evidence that an 
enhanced annuity had been considered but wasnt pursued due to the information they had 
about Mr C at the time.
Mr C was unhappy with Tilneys response and so brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They thought Mr C was sufficiently aware of 
enhanced annuities at the time. And it was likely Tilney had asked Mr C about his medical 
conditions. They also thought Mr C had sufficient opportunities to update Tilney about any 
medical conditions he had, but hed failed to do so.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules that businesses like Tilney must follow say that they need to act in their clients 
best interest and be clear in their communications. 
So, Ive considered whether Tilney followed those rules when recommending a standard 
annuity to Mr C in 2010.
Its evidenced that Tilney completed a fact-finding exercise with Mr C in late 2008. The client 
questionnaire they completed recorded details about his financial affairs as well as asking 
Mr C to describe any health issues he had. While I accept its likely that Mr C didnt himself fill 
in the form as that was likely done by Tilneys adviser, I dont find that unusual or 
unreasonable. 
The questionnaire has been fully completed with all relevant questions answered or struck 
through. So, I think on balance, its likely Mr C was asked if he had any health issues at that 
time. And N/A was recorded as his answer. While Mr C may not have completed the form 
himself, he signed it under a declaration that said;
I understand all of the recommendations will be based on the information that I have 
provided. 
I confirm that I have answered these questions and provided the information requested to 
the best of my abilities. 
Therefore, I think Mr C ought to have ensured that the answers hed given were accurate 
and recorded correctly on the form.
Mr C says that had he been given a copy of this document it would have allowed him to read 
over and digest it further. However, I find it reasonable that Tilney didnt provide Mr C with a 
copy as standard practice. Theyd completed the form with Mr C in his presence and asked 
him to sign it as an accurate record of their conversation. The form outlined the importance 
of providing accurate information, as any recommendations by Tilney would be made using 
the information it contained. I also havent seen any evidence Mr C asked for a copy and 
was denied it by Tilney. So, I dont think they acted unfairly. 
When Mr C looked to take the benefits from his pension just over a year later, Tilney say 
they completed a retirement income form. The first question asked was if there had been 
any recent changes to Mr Cs personal or financial circumstances since the client 
questionnaire had been completed. The no box was ticked. 
Again, Mr C signed this document underneath a declaration that the information it contained 
was accurate. It also recorded that Mr C understood the recommendations made were 
based on the information hed provided. 
Tilney proceeded on the basis that Mr C didnt have any health conditions and therefore 
wasnt eligible for an enhanced annuity. And I think thats reasonable. I say that because the 
rules that businesses must follow say that a firm is entitled to rely on the information 
provided by its client unless its aware the information is out of date, inaccurate or 
incomplete. And I havent seen any evidence that Tilney were aware that the information 
they held on Mr Cs medical conditions was inaccurate.I think its also important to note that AXA had recently sent Mr C a letter in December 2009 
which highlighted that health issues could help you buy more annuity income. And other 
factors, such as your weight or if you are a smoker could also increase the income you 
receive. So I think Mr C ought to have had an awareness of things that might affect an 
annuity income.
Mr C says the question relating to recent changes in his personal or financial situation didnt 
specifically ask about his health. And therefore, he didnt know to tell Tilney about his health 
conditions. However, I think the question is sufficiently clear and, as Ive said, Mr C had 
recently been provided with information about annuities saying that health conditions could 
affect the income he received. 
When Tilney decided on their recommendations, they sent Mr C a suitability letter on 
5 January 2010. The letter had a section entitled Enhanced Annuity Terms. It went on to 
say;
In circumstances where potential annuitants have impaired health due to existing medical 
conditions or their lifestyle circumstances, it is sometimes possible to obtain enhanced 
annuity terms which provide a higher level of income. These enhancements are provided at 
the discretion of the insurance company, and may be subject to the receipt of appropriate 
medical evidence.
Based upon your current state of health and lifestyle I have not been able to obtain 
enhanced terms for your annuity quote. The illustration I have provided to you confirms the 
terms on which the annuity has been offered.
Based on the suitability letter, Im satisfied that Tilney considered an enhanced annuity for 
Mr C. But they didnt think his circumstances would qualify him for one. And looking at the 
information they held on record for Mr C, I think that was reasonable. 
The suitability letter asked Mr C to review this information carefully and let me know if you 
have any questions, corrections or require further clarification. At the time, Mr C says he had 
medical conditions that may have affected his annuity quotes. But Im satisfied that Tilney 
gave Mr C sufficient and clear information in their suitability letter.
Even if Mr C didnt understand the questions hed been asked in the fact finding exercises 
leading up to his annuity quotes, the suitability letter gave him an opportunity to question the 
annuity quotes. It made it clear that people with health conditions might be entitled to a 
higher level of income from an annuity. And Mr C ought reasonably to have made Tilney 
aware of his medical conditions if he hadnt done so already. In failing to do so, Tilney acted 
on the information they held on Mr C which I think was reasonable.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, especially given that a different 
provider has enhanced one of his other annuities, but in this case Tilney were sufficiently 
clear in their communications at the time and acted on the information theyd been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Timothy WilkesOmbudsman