DRN-2954395
The complaint
Mrs H complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund a disputed cash withdrawal.
What happened
On 13 July 2021 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I explained why, based
on what I had seen so far, I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted to give both
parties a chance to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision below and
it forms part of this final decision;
What happened
Mrs H, and her husband Mr H, were on holiday in another country, a place theyve been 
many times and know well.
Mr H, an additional cardholder on the account, says he was having a discussion with a friend 
about whether theyd be charged to use a credit card abroad. The friend believed they 
wouldnt be, but Mr H was sure that the particular cash machine would charge them a 5% 
fee. He decided to test whether this was true. He says he entered the card and PIN then 
selected the amount of the withdrawal. A message was displayed asking whether he 
accepted a 5% access fee for using the machine. He selected no, collected the card and 
returned to his group, who were waiting a few feet away.
When Mrs H returned home, she noticed a £100 charge on her statement. She reported this 
to Nationwide. It provided a temporary refund, raised a dispute on her behalf and contacted 
the cash machine operator. The operator responded with evidence suggesting the money 
had been dispensed. So, Nationwide reapplied the charge.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. They noted that Nationwide were unable to 
provide detailed evidence from the cash machine and, based on the plausibility of Mr and 
Mrs Hs account of events, they thought the money ought to be refunded.
Nationwide disagreed, it thought it was more likely that Mr H had walked away from the cash 
machine assuming that a transaction wasnt going to take place and prior to the money 
being dispensed.
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different 
outcome to the investigator and Ill explain why.
Generally Nationwide are liable for any unauthorised or incorrectly executed transactions 
which debit a customers account. So, here, I need to consider whether
-the cash machine did dispense cash; and if it did
-Mr H consented to that transaction
Mr H didnt intend to withdraw money from the cash machine, he just wanted to see whether 
he would be charged a 5% fee by the cash machine operator. He believed hed cancelled 
the transaction by refusing the additional fee. It strikes me as important that Mr H wasnt 
expecting any money to be dispensed from the machine. Records provided by the cash 
machine operator show that there were nine seconds between the card being taken and 
money being presented, and a further six seconds before the funds were taken. Mr H 
accepts he didnt wait at the machine for longer than it took to replace his card in his wallet, 
and hed have no particular reason to do so.
So, Im not sure Mr H would have been present to witness the funds dispensing. And, given 
that dispensing errors are relatively rare incidents and the, albeit somewhat limited, evidence 
suggests the money was dispensed, I think its most likely it was.
Its possible the money was presented, but not collected and consequently taken back by the 
machine. But, I dont think this is the most likely explanation. First, the evidence we do have 
doesnt suggest this happened  it shows the money was collected. And, while I accept there 
is evidence that the cash machine operator might be able to provide that might shed further 
light on this, a cash machine isnt likely to take back funds after just six seconds.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs H have said about nobody else being in the vicinity of the 
cash machine after the transaction. But Im also conscious theyd have no reason to be on 
the lookout for anyone either. And, given my reasoning above, Im led to think that the funds 
did dispense and were taken by a third party after Mr H moved away from the machine.
Mr H says the funds didnt dispense, but he also suggests they shouldnt have dispensed. In 
effect, he says he didnt consent to the transaction. Mr H doesnt dispute entering his card, 
PIN and choosing an amount, but believes that refusing the charge would cancel the 
transaction.
Ive seen at least one review online which suggests Mr H isnt the only person to have used 
this particular banks cash machines around this time, refused the 5% access fee and yet 
had funds dispensed. I also cant see an additional charge on Mrs Hs credit card statement, 
though I accept its possible the 5% might have been included within the exchange rate 
given. Overall, while I havent seen the message that would have been shown on the screen, 
it would appear the choice was whether to incur the charge, not go through with the 
transaction. That persuades me that Mr H did, perhaps unknowingly, authorise the 
transaction by completing all the steps necessary for it to take place.
I think Mrs H has lost out here due to a very unfortunate series of events  a confusing 
transaction process, a delay in the cash being presented and, most likely, an opportunistic 
third party taking the money. However, as Im persuaded thats what happened, Nationwide 
havent made a mistake by not refunding the transaction.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision.  Mrs H said that she wasnt happy with the 
provisional decision. She said she was honest and had only brought the complaint because 
she had a legitimate reason to complain. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is little for me to add to my provisional decision  given that Nationwide have accepted 
it and Mrs H has not specifically commented on any of the findings. 
The only point I would emphasise is that I dont think Mr or Mrs H have been in any way 
dishonest. I understand why Mr H believes that the money wasnt dispensed by the cash 
machine and taken by a third party and I think that belief is sincerely held. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that is what is most likely to have happened. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman