DRN-2322828
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Covea Insurance plc has declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy to repair his wall. 
 
What happened
Mr As wall collapsed after a period of heavy rain, he thinks Covea should pay for the repair 
under his insurance policy. Covea say the wall collapsed due to wear and tear of the 
materials within the wall and the gradual build-up of pressure behind it from soil and 
vegetation being saturated over time. There is an exclusion within the policy for wear and 
tear and, damage that happens gradually, so Covea has declined Mr As claim.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Its not in dispute there were storm conditions within the area around the time Mr As 
wall collapsed. However, this doesnt automatically mean Mr As wall should be 
repaired. I need to be persuaded the storm was the primary reason the wall fell 
down. 
Ive looked at the photos Mr A has provided of the wall in 2017 and noted his 
comments about the condition of the wall. But Im mindful these were taken two years 
before the collapse, so they arent entirely representative of the condition of the wall 
just before it fell down. Ive also reviewed the pictures taken after the wall collapsed 
as well as the report provided by Covea. Having reviewed everything, Im more 
persuaded the wall fell down as a result of the pressure gradually building up behind 
it.
The photos show the breeze block layer of the wall leaning due to the pressure 
behind it. However, I appreciate this wouldnt have been evident to Mr A until the 
pressure became too great and the face of the wall came down. 
The further saturation of the soil may well have been the tipping point of the walls 
tolerance, but I think its more likely than not, the storm conditions simply served to 
highlight the existing issues with the wall. 
Having checked Mr As policy it does include an exclusion for Loss or damage 
caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens gradually. 
I think Covea has acted fairly and reasonably and dealt with Mr As claim in line with 
the policy terms. I wont therefore be asking it to do anything further here. I realise 
Mr A was hoping Covea would offer a contribution towards the rebuilding costs of the 
wall, however it doesnt need to do this. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman