DRN-4270795
The complaint
Mr S complains that he didnt get an account opening incentive award from Prepaid 
Financial Services Limited (PFS). 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr S opened a British Airways Prepaid Mastercard. The card is run by PFS. 
As an opening incentive, 1500 Avios points were to be awarded for a spend of £500  in the 
first 90 days. The spend was made within the 90-day period. The incentive wasnt credited to 
Mr S Avios. Mr S was also charged fees of £5.37.
Mr S complained that he hadnt received the incentive award and had been charged fees  
which wasnt in line with the account opening offer. He said the value of Avios points was 
£35.25. He said PFS took too long to deal with his complaint.
PFS said the fees were charged by Avios, not PFS. And the Avios bonus is issued by Avios, 
not PFS. But PFS refunded the fees.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said it was the responsibility of Avios to 
credit Mr S with the Avios points. PFS have no involvement in the process. The cash 
advance fees had been refunded  so that had been dealt with by PFS. Our investigator said 
PFS did take too long to deal with Mr S complaint  it took three months from July 2022 to 
October 2022 to respond to. For that, he said PFS should pay compensation of £50.
Mr S didnt agree  he said that surely it was down to PFS to establish that he had qualified 
for the incentive and then advise Avios to credit the  points. He reiterated that PFS seemed 
to place every obstacle in the way of resolving his complaint. He asked that an ombudsman 
look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked PFS several questions about the relative responsibilities here. But without any 
satisfactory answers. They say it is down to Avios to credit the points to Mr S.
But here, I agree with Mr S  this was an incentive programme, and the incentive was 
offered by PFS, as the card issuer. The terms and conditions say, The British Airways 
Prepaid Mastercard is issued by Prepaid Financial Services Limited pursuant to a license 
from Mastercard International Incorporated. So for me  its clear that it was the 
responsibility of PFS to advise Avios that Mr S qualified for the incentive offer in order that 
the points were awarded to him. And in practical terms  as Mr S has argued  I dont see 
how Avios could know whether Mr S met the terms of PFS offer or not  it was up to PFS to 
determine that. I can see that Mr S met the terms of the offer  as he did spend more than 
£500 in the first 90 days.
I could also see that initially, PFS said the card fees were charged by Avios  which also 
must have been an error. The fees were charged to Mr S PFS Mastercard  i.e. by PFS. But 
 PFS did eventually refund the fees.
I can also see that PFS took three months to respond to Mr S complaint. I dont think that 
was a reasonable thing to do. And I also noted that in their final response email, PFS didnt 
give Mr S referral rights to this service  which they should have. 
Mr S says the Avios points were worth £35  and showed us the evidence for that. So  PFS 
should pay this sum of money to him. And because of the slowness in  responding to his 
complaint, I think its reasonable that PFS pay a total compensation of £200  to include the 
payment in lieu of the Avios points.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr S accepted the findings. PFS didnt respond.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S accepted the findings; and PFS didnt respond, my final decision is unchanged from 
the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Prepaid Financial Services Limited should:
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman