DRN-2887937
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services and 
also as Post Office Money, failed to update its record of his address when he changed it, 
and assigned his loan account to a third party.
What happened
In 2016 Mr R took out a five year loan with Post Office Money. In 2017 he moved home 
twice, and so I will refer to his three relevant addresses as the first, second, and third or 
current address.
Mr R reported both moves to Post Office Money in writing. The first time, Post Office Money 
was not satisfied with his letter, and so it phoned him to confirm the new address. After 
speaking to him, it updated his account with the second address.
Mr R moved to his third address in November 2017, and wrote to Post Office Money in 
January 2018. This time, his signature on the letter did not match the one they had on file, 
and so they did not update his account with this address. Unlike before, Post Office Money 
did not call Mr R to confirm this new address, and Post Office Money has since 
acknowledged that perhaps it should have done.
Mr R had been making his monthly loan repayments by direct debit. In July 2018 he 
cancelled the direct debit, and he failed to pay his July and August payments. In August, 
Post Office Money sent a notice of sums in arrears to his second address. However, Mr R 
had had the foresight to set up a mail redirect service for 12 months, and so this notice was 
redirected to his third address. On receiving that notice, he paid the July and August 
payments. Thereafter, he continued to make monthly payments on the due date (not by 
direct debit), but each payment was received the next working day, which meant that all of 
them were received late.
Starting in October 2018, late payment fees were charged each month, but each of these 
was reversed a few days later, because Post Office Money considered Mr Rs payments to 
be only technically late. But notices of sums in arrears were automatically generated and 
sent to Mr Rs second address, starting in October.
In 2018 Mr Rs 12 month mail redirect came to an end, and so he did not receive those 
notices, including, he says, the one in October. As a result, Post Office Money began to 
receive returned mail, and in December it marked his second address as gone away. This 
led to Post Office Money assigning Mr Rs account to a third party in February 2019.
In April 2019, Post Office Money and the third party both wrote to Mr R to tell him about the 
assignment, but they both wrote to him at his first address. That has not been explained. It is 
not in dispute that Mr R did not receive these letters, but he did receive an email from the 
third party, telling him that it had taken over the debt. Mr R stopped making payments 
altogether, because he did not agree that the debt should have been sold.
In August 2019 Mr R complained to Post Office Money about the fact that he had not been 
notified about the sale of the debt. He was represented in that complaint, and subsequently 
in this complaint to our service, by Mr B, who works at a free debt advice charity. Mr R now 
also complains that he did not receive any correspondence after August 2018, and that he 
was not told that his payments since then were being made late. Mr R also says (via Mr B) 
that the account balance is higher than it should be, and that he is worried about the 
potential damage to his credit file caused by his late payments. He says that in August he 
set up a standing order for future payments. He says he had notified Post Office Money 
about both the times he moved. He is also concerned that his privacy may have been 
compromised by sending letters to his old addresses.
Post Office Money did not agree that it had done anything wrong, except for not contacting 
Mr R to verify his third address in 2018. It said this omission would not have affected him 
until November 2018, as that was presumably when his mail redirect had ended. He had 
received the August 2018 notice, and he should have received the October notice as well. It 
had accurately reported the account history to the credit reference agencies, and it had been 
entitled to sell the loan. It had been Mr Rs choice to cancel the direct debit.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that Post Office Money should 
have phoned Mr R when it received his letter about his second move, in January 2018. 
However, he also thought that when Mr R had received the August 2018 arrears notice, 
addressed to his second address, he ought to have realised that Post Office Money had not 
updated its records with his third address, and got in touch with the bank about that. But he 
had not done so, and nor had he contacted the bank after that to make sure that his 
payments would be received on time. The investigator said that it had been Mr Rs 
responsibility to ensure that his payments were received on time, and he had not done 
enough. In particular, the evidence showed that he had not set up a standing order, but had 
only been making manual payments. He said Mr R should have set up a payment plan for 
his future payments to make sure they were made on time, and should have contacted the 
bank to update his address again.
Mr B did not accept that opinion. He said the investigator had not given sufficient weight to 
the banks failure to contact Mr R in January 2018. He said that on receiving the August 
2018 arrears notice, Mr R had paid the arrears, and in order to do so it had been necessary 
for him to phone the bank, and he had told the bank about his third address during that call. 
He had also set up a standing order for future payments, and Mr B suggested that this was 
further evidence that Mr R had been in contact with the bank. He had not received any 
further correspondence about arrears or about late payments. He emphasised that the bank 
had later reverted to sending letters to his first address, for no obvious reason other than 
inefficiency. Mr B said this was a breach of data protection laws, since the bank had been 
told that this was not a current address, and there was a real risk that the letters would be 
opened by third parties  specifically his former employers, who owned the premises. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Post Office Money should have called Mr R on receipt of his second letter, in 
January 2018, and that its failure to do so was clearly an error. In order for me to decide 
whether the bank should have to pay him compensation for that error, I have to assess how serious it is, having regard to its impact on Mr R, and to what Mr R could and should have 
done to mitigate that impact.
The next event of significance is Mr Rs cancellation of his direct debit in July. That was not a 
consequence of the banks error, but was his own choice. Since he did not make payment by 
some other means, his account fell into arrears, and the bank sent him an arrears notice in 
August, for two missed payments. It is not in dispute that Mr R received this notice as a 
result of the mail redirect he had set up, and I accept that he responded by immediately 
paying the arrears.
However, there is no evidence that Mr R ever set up a standing order, either in August or 
later on. I have seen his statements, and after the direct debit was cancelled all of the 
subsequent payments which he made are described as Internet payment received. That is 
not how I would expect a payment by standing order to be described. They were also all 
made on different dates, ranging from the 16th to the 22nd of each month. In the banks own 
system notes they appear to be card payments. So I think these were card payments which 
were made manually by Mr R, on an ad hoc basis.
Those payments were all received late, so although the bank refunded his late payment 
charges, it was still obliged to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies, 
and so it had to report them as late or missed payments.
More significantly, this evidence undermines Mr Rs claim to have notified Post Office Money 
about his change of address in the phone call in August 2018. His recollection is that in 
response to the August arrears notice, he contacted the bank, set up a standing order, and 
reminded them about his new address. But since it is clear that he never set up a standing 
order, I am afraid that I do not think his recollection of events is reliable. Post Office Money 
has no record of him mentioning his third address in August 2018 or at any time since then. 
On the balance of probabilities, I am not persuaded that he did.
Although Mr R moved house in November 2017, he says he might have set up the mail 
redirect earlier, since he received the keys to the third address on October 26. He therefore 
says that he could have set up the mail redirect on any date in the range 26 October to 
4 November. Taking the earliest date, that would mean that the mail redirect would have 
expired on 25 or 26 October 2018. That would not necessarily explain why he did not receive 
an arrears notice dated 15 October, but I will give him the benefit of the doubt and assume 
that it was either delivered late or was lost in the post. However, I dont think I could fairly 
say that it was the banks fault he did not receive it, if he did not try to update his address in 
August.
As Ive said, the result was that after the mail redirect expired, Post Office Money started to 
receive its correspondence back, marked gone away. That led it to sell the account, and 
I think that was reasonable. What I cannot understand is why it sent the notice of assignment 
to the first address instead of the second, given that it already knew that Mr R no longer lived 
there. I agree with Mr B that this was an error by Post Office Money, and that when Mr R 
subsequently found out about it, he was caused some anxiety by the prospect of his former 
employer intercepting his mail and learning about his personal finances. I think that although 
this would not have happened if Mr R had updated his address in August, this new error by 
Post Office Money supersedes Mr Rs failure to act.
To put it another way, if Post Office Money had sent its 2019 correspondence to the second 
address, I would have said that this was the result of Mr R not mitigating the impact of its 
error in January 2018  but as the bank sent correspondence to the first address instead, the 
prior history of the account becomes irrelevant to that error. I propose to award £100 
compensation for that, subject to any further representations I receive from the parties.Mr Rs reaction to being told (by email) about the assignment was to stop making payments 
altogether. That was his choice, and the missed payments had to be reported to the credit 
reference agencies. I cannot say that Post Office Money is responsible for that.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any 
further representations I receive from the parties  I intend to order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
to pay Mr R £100.
Responses to my provisional findings
The bank accepted my provisional decision. Mr B did not. He told me that Mr R had, on 
further reflection, concluded that he had made his payments by way of a continuous 
payment authority, rather than by a standing order. He maintained that the banks decision to 
default and sell the account was heavy handed, given that Mr R had been making regular 
and timely payments. He reminded me that Mr R had promptly notified the bank of both of 
his changes of address, and that the bank could and should have telephoned him about the 
second move, as it had the first time. He invited me to reconsider.
My findings
I asked the bank if it had any record of a continuous payment authority being set up. It 
replied to say that it does not accept this method of payment  it only accepts direct debits, 
standing orders, and manual debit card payments. I have no reason to doubt that 
information, other than Mr Rs own recollection of setting up some sort of recurring payment 
method. But on balance, I think it is more likely that he is mistaken, and that he made the 
payments manually after he cancelled the direct debit.
There is therefore no reason for me to change my view that I do not think Mr R told the bank 
about his new address in a phone call in August 2018, or since.
Although Mr R made his payments on the due date, as I have said before, those payments 
did not clear on the same day, and so they were received late. That, on its own, did not 
prompt the bank to default the account. I have mentioned before that the bank refunded the 
late payment charges because it regarded the payments as only technically late. But once 
the mail redirect expired, and correspondence was returned to the bank marked gone 
away, defaulting and selling the account was a reasonable and normal response.
So there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay 
Mr R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021. Mr B may reply on his behalf.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman