DRN-3247011
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complain Arrow Global Limited havent applied payments properly to the 
debt theyre administering.
  
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with another company which fell behind in its repayments. The 
account was bought by one of Arrows partner companies in 2009, and in June 2013 Arrow 
began to administer the account.
Mr B sadly passed away in May 2019. And his estate found out about this debt. After some 
discussions, they contacted Arrow to complain as they were unhappy with some customer 
service issues thatd happened  specifically being directed to a different company who 
couldnt help, delay in replying to a letter, and having to spend a long time on the phone 
discussing this issue. And they were also unhappy with the balance being reported by Arrow 
(£4,037.96) being different to what a debt charity, who was supporting Mr B, said the 
balance was (£2,774.42).
In March 2020, Arrow upheld some elements of the complaint regarding the customer 
service thatd been provided  they said the company should have been passed Mr Bs 
account but werent due to an error, and they didnt reply to their letter for nearly two months. 
For this, they awarded £100 compensation. Regarding the phone wait times, they said the 
estates representative had to wait on the phone for eight minutes which they didnt think 
was unreasonable. And in respect of the outstanding balance they said they didnt know 
what the charity had told the estate, but the balance they were asking for of £4,037.96 was 
correct and theyd applied all payments to the account correctly.
So, the estate brought their complaint to us to consider  saying that the monthly payment 
for this debt was £35.29. This payment was due from mid-2010 onwards, and Arrows 
statements show no payments credited between then and June 2013. The estate calculated 
payments made during this time as £1,263.54, and the difference in what they were being 
asked to pay as £1,270.44. So, they felt the payments hadnt been included in the 
outstanding balance provided by Arrow. The estate also explained theyd not received the 
£100 Arrow said itd pay.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and after resolving a jurisdiction issue, and 
gathering evidence of the payments to Arrow from the charity, upheld the complaint. 
Following this, Arrow raised a different jurisdiction argument, saying they thought it was 
outside of our ability to consider it. They also explained the reason for the difference in 
balances was due to interest adjustments thatd been applied to the account in 2010 and 
2011.
Our Investigator asked for evidence from Arrow to consider their jurisdiction objection. They 
failed to provide that, so he issued a formal outcome saying we could consider the complaint 
based on the evidence provided so far. As Arrow again didnt reply, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide whether we could consider the complaint. 
In a separate decision, I decided we could consider it. Following this, our Investigator issued 
a second opinion, still upholding the complaint, as he didnt think there was any evidence the 
interest adjustments had been applied fairly.
In response, Arrow said they didnt believe any interest had been added. Our Investigator 
challenged them on this, as originally this is what they said, before changing to explain the 
difference in the balance was due to interest adjustments.
He asked them to reply by 4 January 2022, otherwise the case may be put forward for a final 
decision without any further contact. As at the date of this decision, no further contact has 
been received  so the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the assignment of the debt originally in 2009 from the lender, to Arrows 
partner company.
This shows the balance of £6,289.59 was the amount transferred. When Arrow provided us 
with their evidence of the account  it also shows this outstanding balance. So, Im satisfied 
were talking about the same account.
The statement of transactions provided to the estate of Mr B doesnt show any credits being 
made to the account between mid-2010 and June 2013. The evidence of the account 
provided to us by Arrow shows those payments were credited to the account  and it shows 
13 entries with a comment of Increasing Adjustment between 3 April 2010 and June 2011. 
These 13 entries show a total of £1,228.25 was added to Mr Bs account balance during this 
time.
As these 13 entries added to Mr Bs debt, and the Increasing Adjustment comment didnt 
provide any real explanation, we asked Arrow what these payments related to. They replied 
and said I believe increasing adjustments are related to interest. This is the full response 
provided at this time.
After some further time, Arrow explained their process at the time was if there was an 
arrangement to pay a certain amount, and that payment wasnt made, then theyd add 
supressed interest in a batch. They said a payment was missed in March 2010, so its at this 
point the interest not paid up to that point of £426.72 was added on.
Looking at the evidence of the account it does show a payment wasnt made in March 2010. 
So, this could reasonably explain one of the increasing adjustment charges  but theres 12 
more. Using Arrows explanation, these are only applied when a payment is missed  but for 
the remaining dates between July 2010 and June 2011 when increasing adjustments were 
applied, no further payments were missed. 
Arrows response in December 2021 to our Investigators most recent uphold outcome, was 
to say they believed no interest had been charged.
Given the conflicting information from Arrow I dont think I can reasonably rely on their 
explanations. My interpretation would be they arent sure exactly whats happened as 
theyve provided different explanations  and theyve provided different evidence to different 
parties about the reason for the balance being what it is.Arrow have been asked to provide evidence Mr B may have been told about the increasing 
adjustments being added to his account  as at the date of this decision nothing has been 
provided to show this. Under the circumstances, Ive not satisfied theyve been added to the 
account fairly  given the conflicting and inconsistent information from Arrow. As a 
consequence, the 13 increasing adjustments totalling £1,228.25 should be removed from 
Mr Bs account. An updated redemption statement should be provided at this point to the 
estate as well.
In addition, I note Arrow accepted the estate of Mr B had been caused some inconvenience. 
I agree with this. Theyve had to chase Arrow on many occasions, for something that could 
and should have been resolved significantly earlier than it now has. Thats very poor on 
Arrows part. Im satisfied £200 is appropriate to reflect the inconvenience to the estate for 
this.
Putting things right
I order Arrow to:
Remove the charges of £1,228.25 for the increasing adjustments which were added 
to Mr Bs account.
Provide a redemption statement to the estate of Mr B once this has been completed.
Pay the estate of Mr B £200 compensation as a result of the inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and order Arrow Global Limited to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman