DRN-3873967
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Curve OS Limited handled his account after he reported 
fraud. 
What happened
Mr S has an account with Curve which provides a service that allows customers to use 
multiple debit cards from their bank via one card. On 5 January 2022 Mr S reported that 
there was a transaction he had not authorised on his account  to a company Ill call E. 
Curve blocked Mr S card, and refunded the transaction Mr S had disputed. His card was 
unblocked two days later.
Mr S complained that when his card had been blocked he had been unable to complete a 
payment to his employer, causing him significant embarrassment, he was also concerned he 
could potentially lose his job because of what had happened. Curve looked at what had 
happened, but did not think it had done anything wrong by blocking Mr S card. Nonetheless, 
it paid him £25 as a gesture of goodwill to try to resolve his complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us. 
On 12 January 2022 another payment to E then left Mr S account, he contacted Curve 
again to say he also had not authorised that payment. Curve refunded this payment to Mr S 
and reissued his card that same day. Mr S was unhappy that this payment had been 
allowed, as he believed all further payments to E had been blocked. Curve explained that E 
had submitted the payment request with different information to previously, meaning it was 
able to bypass the block on recurring payments to E, but noted that the payment had been 
refunded to Mr S as soon as he raised his concerns and had reissued Mr S card to avoid 
any further issues with E.
Mr S remained unhappy, and an Investigator at this service looked into Mr Ss complaint. 
They felt that Curve had treated him fairly. Mr S asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
Since Mr S complaint was referred to our service there have been new issues regarding the 
reissue of his card. These issues appear to be unrelated to the initial complaint Mr S raised 
with us. And Curve has told us Mr S accepted a settlement regarding those issues in March 
2022. So I will not be addressing those issues as part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our Investigator, and for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr S has told us he feels Curve unfairly blocked his account, causing him significant distress 
and the possibility of financial loss when a payment to his employer was declined. Ive 
looked at Curves actions and I consider it treated Mr S fairly here. 
When Mr S contacted Curve on 5 January 2022 to say he had not authorised the payment to 
E, Curve did not yet know what might be the cause of that unauthorised payment. So given 
the risk that Mr S card had been compromised, or that any account he held with E had been 
compromised, I consider it was reasonable for Curve to block Mr S card until it knew that the 
card was secure. This was to limit the possibility of further unauthorised transactions taking 
place and to therefore protect Mr S money. 
I can also see that on 5 January, in its online chat with Mr S, Curve explained this was what 
it would be doing. Specifically, Curve asked Mr S to contact E to ensure his account had not 
been compromised, and said his card would remain blocked in the meantime. Mr S 
responded to this message, so its clear he received it. The block was then removed from 
Mr S card two days later, on 7 January 2022.
Looking at Curves actions, I havent seen any evidence of unreasonable delays here, and 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Curve to temporarily block Mr S card. I acknowledge that 
Curve paid Mr S £25 for any inconvenience caused, but Im satisfied it didnt make any 
errors here. It follows that I therefore do not find that Curve should pay any compensation for 
embarrassment caused to Mr S because his card payment to his employer was declined. 
Curve had made it clear the card was blocked, and was reasonable to put that temporary 
block in place. So whilst I appreciate the block has caused some problems for Mr S, I 
havent found Curve acted unfairly. 
Unfortunately, there was then a further payment to E  on 12 January 2022  which again 
Mr S says he did not authorise. As soon as this was raised with Curve it refunded the 
payment to Mr S and reissued his card so that the same problem could not happen again. 
Curve also explained how this payment had happened. It explained that E had requested a 
new payment, with different details to those of the 5 January 2022 payment. So it appears 
this had not been classed as a recurring payment which is what Curve had blocked from E 
after Mr S initial complaint. 
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr S, but Im satisfied with Curves explanation of what 
happened, and that it took steps to refund this payment and prevent any further payments 
quickly. So I dont find Curve did anything wrong here.
Overall, Im satisfied Curve has dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to 
increase the award or take further action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman