DRN-4006346
The complaint
Mrs N complains about delays in having her private medical insurance claim assessed by 
BUPA Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mrs N has private medical insurance which is underwritten by BUPA. She wanted to see a 
specialist as she had symptoms which could have potentially led to a very serious diagnosis. 
On 14 July 2022 she sent a healthcare questionnaire and urgent referral letter from her GP 
to BUPA for review. She didnt hear anything about her claim until 5 August 2022 when she 
called BUPA  despite her sending emails in the meantime asking for an update. The claim 
wasnt assessed until 8 August 2022.
Unhappy with this timeframe, Mrs N complained to BUPA. It acknowledged that an error had 
occurred which meant not all of her documents were attached to her record which it says 
caused some of the issues. BUPA also said that there were delays in responding to her 
emails. It recognised that this caused Mrs N to wait longer for a consultation than 
anticipated. BUPA offered Mrs N £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mrs N didnt think this compensation offer was enough and so she brought her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and said she didnt think it was 
reasonable for Mrs N to have to wait over three weeks to get the authorisation needed to 
seek medical treatment, especially considering that there was the potential for the diagnosis 
to have been quite serious. But she felt that the sum offered by BUPA as compensation was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs N disagreed with our investigator. She explained how this matter had been very 
stressful for her and the impact this whole situation had on her, both financially and 
emotionally. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS 8.1.1 says that insurers should act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. Ive taken this into account when considering Mrs Ns complaint.
Mrs N sent information to BUPA by both recorded delivery and online in order to obtain 
approval for treatment. This was all received by 15 July 2022. However, Mrs Ns claim 
wasnt reviewed until 8 August 2022. As Mrs N was seeking approval for treatment to 
establish if she was suffering from a potentially serious medical condition, I can fully 
appreciate how important it would have been to her that she was able to seek treatment 
quickly. Im not persuaded that having to wait over three weeks to be contacted about her 
claim was reasonable in these circumstances. 
During this time, Mrs N sent several emails to chase for an answer to her claim but didnt 
receive a response. And when she called BUPA on 5 August 2022, she was informed that 
not all of the information she had submitted was on file. BUPA has accepted that it didnt 
respond to her emails within its usual timeframe of three working days and that there was an 
issue with the documentation not being uploaded to her case which caused confusion. 
BUPA recognised that these issues led to her having to wait longer than it would have 
expected to gain approval for the consultation, and as a result it offered £500 as 
compensation.
Mrs N has provided detailed information to us in relation to the impact that she says this 
incident has had on her, both in terms of her health and also in relation to her financial 
situation. She feels that £500 is not enough compensation for what happened. Ive noted all 
of her comments and thought about this very carefully. But it is important to point out that I 
can only award compensation for things that can be evidenced as being caused by the delay 
in authorising Mrs Ns claim, which took 16 working days from submission to approval. And 
while I fully appreciate that some of the events she has described would have been 
incredibly distressing, I dont have any evidence to support that these were as a direct result 
of this incident. 
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that the £500 offered by BUPA is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs N by the delays in 
processing the claim. I dont require it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman