DRN-3358321
The complaint
Mr G and Ms B are unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has declined 
their legal expenses claim. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms B have a legal expenses policy which is underwritten by DAS. 
Using their policy, Mr G sought to pursue a legal claim against a construction 
company who was building on land next to his home. 
DAS referred the claim to its panel solicitors who concluded the claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success. 
It also said Mr Gs nuisance claim wasnt covered because the construction company 
was owned by the Council. It referred to the policy document which says work done 
by, or on behalf of, any government or public or local authority unless the claim is for 
accidental physical damage isnt covered under the policy. 
Mr G was advised that if he wanted to challenge the solicitors opinion, he could 
supply a barristers opinion at his own expense. 
DAS subsequently declined the claim. 
Mr G disagreed and made a complaint to this Service. He said DAS had failed to 
consider the significance of the construction companys monetary offer to resolve the 
matter. He said this showed the company was accepting liability and ultimately, that 
there was a claim worth pursuing.
Mr G also disagreed the company was owned by the Council and said that as the 
claim was about accidental physical damage the exclusion ought not to apply. He 
added that his claim had been looked at by a paralegal rather than a solicitor.
Our investigator considered it but didnt uphold the complaint. Overall, he thought it 
was reasonable for DAS to rely on the panel solicitors legal advice and so he didnt 
think the claim had been unfairly declined.
Mr G remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its apparent that many of Mr Gs complaint points relate to the legal merits of his 
claim or the solicitors conduct  which is simply not something this Service can 
consider. But what I can consider is whether it was reasonable for DAS - in reaching 
its decision to decline Mr G claim - to rely on the legal advice provided.  In doing so, 
Ill focus on what I consider to be the key issues of the complaint  meaning Ill only 
comment on what I think is relevant. 
Mr Gs policy requires that reasonable prospects must exist for the duration of the 
claim. In other words, a claim would become invalid if at any point during it, it fails to 
have more than a 51% chance of success. This is a standard term for these types of 
policies and not one I would consider unfair. 
The claim not having prospects of success is one of the reasons DAS has declined 
Mr Gs claim. Im not going to comment on whether I think Mr Gs claim did or didnt 
as thats not my role but I have looked at the solicitors prospects assessment to see 
if an explanation was given (as Mr G has said one wasnt) and whether it was fair for 
DAS to rely on it. 
From looking at the assessment, I can see the solicitor explained that without expert 
evidence to show the impact of the nuisance, they were unable to conclude the claim 
enjoyed prospects of success. And the assessment details what evidence would be 
required. The solicitor also raises concerns that an expert may determine the 
problem complained about to not be unreasonable and references the Courts 
approach to building woks and nuisance claims. This reasoning along with other 
potential exclusions identified by the solicitors, led DAS to decline the claim. Having 
not seen anything to suggest the assessment contained obvious factual inaccuracies, 
I consider it reasonable for DAS to have relied on it.
Mr G feels that because the defendant company made a monetary offer it has in 
essence admitted liability  which he thinks means the claim has reasonable 
prospects of success, and so DAS should cover the claim. The solicitor has 
explained why it doesnt consider this to be legally correct. But whats relevant to this 
complaint is whether there being an offer should have influenced DAS decision to 
fund the claim. 
Ultimately, an offer might be made for a host of reasons  but crucially, it doesnt 
always mean an admission of liability. Given there are other factors for an insurer to 
consider when deciding a claim including proportionality and when the insured event 
happened (amongst others) the existence of an offer doesnt eclipse these. So, Im 
satisfied DAS wasnt required to fund the legal claim just because the defendant 
company had made an offer.
Mr G is also unhappy the solicitors considered the claim to be one of nuisance  he 
says its instead one about accidental physical damage. Its not for me to determine 
whether the claim is one of nuisance or not, but whether it was reasonable for DAS  
and its solicitors  to assess the claim on the basis that it was.
Call transcripts show that when asked by DAS is there any damage or trespass or is 
it something else?, Mr G responded that it was about nuisance  and an explanation 
was given as to how the building company was making a lot of dust which had filled 
Mr Gs garden and pool.  There is also mention of loud construction noises but that it 
was mainly about the problem with dust. The solution Mr G wanted was for the dust 
to be controlled.  Ive also seen that in correspondence between Mr G and the 
construction company hes referred to the issues as nuisance. 
Ultimately it is the policy holders responsibility to prove their claim, and whilst, I 
acknowledge that Mr G has repeatedly said the claim is about accidental physical damage, I havent seen evidence  aside from Mr G saying that the filtration system 
needs replacing  of this being substantiated. 
I accept an offer was made by the construction company to cover the costs of the 
pool being cleaned, but Im not persuaded that dust dirtying a pool is akin to physical 
damage. Given Mr G had as a part of his claim raised issues concerning how late the 
works were carrying on, incorrect use of access points, vibrations and noise affecting 
his enjoyment, I think it was reasonable that DAS received legal advice based on the 
claim being about nuisance. DAS has said that if Mr G can provide evidence of 
accidental damage to his property, its panel firm of solicitors will consider this. And I 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Legal cover isnt designed to cover every eventuality and so, what is and isnt 
covered is set out in the policy document. In this connection, the solicitor highlighted 
that the defendant company is owned by the Council and so the policy exclusion that 
any work done by, or on behalf of, any government or public or local authority unless 
the claim is for accidental physical damage applies. I acknowledge Mr G disputes 
this and considers the defendant to be a separate entity, but the solicitor has 
explained why theyre satisfied the defendant falls within this exclusion. And I think 
its reasonable for DAS to rely on this advice. 
Mr G has raised concerns about the adequacy of the solicitors advice as he says the 
assessment was written by a paralegal and not a qualified solicitor  which he says 
hes entitled to under the policy. Its been confirmed that a partner of the law firm 
oversaw the prospects assessment and I see no reason to doubt this. So, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for DAS to rely on the legal advice contained within it.
I acknowledge Mr Gs strength of feeling in respect of his claim, but from what Ive 
seen Im satisfied DAS has acted fairly by relying on the panel solicitors advice to 
decide the claim wasnt covered under the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman