DRN-3712325
The complaint
Mrs N complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt apply a six-month 
payment holiday to her personal loan account. 
Mrs N is represented by Mr N. 
What happened
In October 2016, Mrs N took out a £13,000 personal loan with NatWest with monthly 
repayments of £279.73. In February 2020, Mrs N got in touch with NatWest after shed a 
missed payment. A payment plan was agreed for Mrs N to pay an addition £97.43 each 
month for six months to bring the account back up to date.
But the pandemic resulted in Mrs N being furloughed from her job. Having seen the financial 
help that was on offer during the pandemic Mr N asked NatWest for a payment holiday to be 
applied to the account. 
He said he was told one month would clear the arrears and this would leave Mrs N with a 
five-month payment holiday. But Mrs N continued to get messages about arrears on her 
account. Mr N said he was passed between departments and told the payment holiday 
would be applied. But later he said he was told that only five months and not the six months 
could be applied. He complained to NatWest.
Nat West said that Mrs N also had a mortgage account with them and there had been 
discussions about payment holidays for that account. They said Mrs N didnt qualify for a 
payment holiday for her loan account but as a gesture of goodwill they offered to pay £100, 
remove some interest and to amend Mrs Ns credit file. 
Mr N said hed been told the payment holiday would be applied in several calls and because 
NatWest hadnt applied the deferral correctly the account was now in arrears and accruing 
additional interest. He said if theyd been told correctly when they got in touch with them, 
they wouldnt now have the arrears they have on the account as they could have asked 
family to help them. He complained further to NatWest. 
NatWest said Mrs Ns loan deferral complaint had been resolved and theyd paid £100 
compensation, refunded arrears interest, and removed adverse data from her credit file tor 
the period July 2020 to December 2020. They said this resolution had been accepted by    
Mr N over the phone. They said while theyd resolved Mrs Ns complaint by treating the 
missed payments between July 2020 to December 2020 as a payment holiday they couldnt 
agree to a term extension as the January 2021 payment wasnt made, and Mrs N had pre 
covid arrears. 
Mr N wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred Mrs Ns complaint to us.
NatWest to settle the complaint offered to compensate Mrs N a further £100.
Our investigator said this complaint was about the term extension as Mr N had accepted the 
resolution for the allocation of the payment holiday complaint. But he considered what had 
happened over both complaints as it was relevant. He said NatWest should have explained 
that pre-existing arrears meant a term extension couldnt be agreed. But the additional £100 
offered by NatWest to put things right was fair and reasonable.
Mr N didnt agree he said because NatWest hadnt honoured the six-month payment holiday 
they were now over £3,000 in arrears and the interest to pay it back was now a further £100 
per month. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N also has a mortgage account with NatWest and there were discussions about the 
repayments for this account. Mrs Ns complaint is about her personal loan account, so Ive 
only considered what happened with her personal loan account in reaching my decision.
From what I can see in February 2020 Mrs N spoke to NatWest as shed missed some 
payments after changing her bank account which meant the direct debits didnt transfer 
across. Ive listened to the call and Mrs Ns income and outgoings were discussed. And a 
payment plan agreed. The impact of accrued interest and missed payments was also 
discussed. The agreement was that Mrs N would pay an additional £97.43 over the next six 
months to bring the account up to date.
I can see from Mrs Ns payment history that the monthly repayment of £279.73 and the 
additional payment of £97.43 was made in February, March, April and June 2020 but she 
missed the payments for May and July 2020. As Mrs N didnt maintain the payment plan it 
would have been considered as broken. 
In April 2020 after Mrs Ns job was affected by the pandemic Mr N asked NatWest for a 
payment holiday. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to recognise the implications of the 
pandemic issued temporary guidance for personal loans on 9 April 2020. And was further 
updated in June 2020. The guidance was intended for consumers who had been impacted 
by the pandemic which prevented them meeting their credit commitments. Customers could 
ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be 
suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although 
interest would still be debited to the accounts. And made clear that the existing guidance 
(CONC) was in place for those with pre-existing arrears.
Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules 
and guidance in CONC 7 would continue to apply. These would include for example the 
firm considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges, deferring payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time. 
And I think this is the crux of the complaint. Mr N was asking for deferral because of the 
pandemic and expected six months payment holiday. NatWest said this was considered for 
the mortgage account, but the personal loan account was already in arrears and an agreed 
plan had been broken. The measures brought in by the FCA are clear that a payment 
deferral shouldnt be applied where there were prior arrears, as is the case here. So, I dont 
think NatWest acted unreasonably in not deferring Mrs Ns payments for her personal loan 
account under the FCA Covid guidance. But I dont think this was properly explained to Mr N 
so I can understand his frustration.I can see that when Mr N called to ask for a further deferral as he wasnt in a position to pay 
the October 2020 payment he was clearly told in that call that the payment holiday hadnt 
been put into place as Mrs N had broken the agreement shed previously made. I think 
NatWest could have provided clearer information, sooner. And they sought to put this right in 
April 2021, NatWest apologised and waived arrears interest of £94.14, paid compensation of
£100, and amended Mrs Ns credit file to remove any missed payment information for July 
2020 to December 2020. Which Mr N accepted.
But Mr N is of the opinion that in taking this action NatWest have only applied a five month 
payment holiday and not the six months. And by not taking the deferral action Mrs Ns 
account remained in arrears and had incurred additional interest. But NatWest didnt apply a 
payment holiday to the account for the reasons outlined above. But in resolving the 
complaint theyve amended Mrs Ns credit file so that the payments that were missed havent 
been reported to her credit file. Which is what would happen if a payment holiday had been 
in place. 
Mr N also feels that theyve incurred additional interest because the payment holiday wasnt 
put into place. But any loan deferral such as a payment holiday doesnt mean the payments 
arent made, theyre only suspended, and this means the loan period is extended. So, the 
loan is repaid over a longer period and does result in additional interest being incurred. 
I can see from NatWests notes that when Mr N asked for a loan deferral after December 
2020, he was correctly informed that Mrs N wasnt entitled to a payment deferral because of 
the existing arrears. Mr N was expecting further correspondence from NatWest about this 
that wasnt sent and he had to contact them again in April 2021. But I can see that Mrs N 
and NatWest have since agreed a repayment  plan.
As set out above, NatWest could have provided better customer service. NatWest
apologised and offered Mrs N a further £100 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience their service failings caused her. In the overall circumstances of this 
complaint I consider that fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking NatWest to pay any 
further compensation.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mrs N the 
offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their customer service failings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman