DRN-2795002
The complaint
Miss M complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to her irresponsibly.
 
What happened
Ms M applied for a loan on 9 May 2013 for £600. Miss M declared her income as £2,000 and 
her expenditure as £2,000. Lending Stream had incorrectly logged Miss Ms declaration
figures for expenditure and credit commitments as £0. Lending Stream has explained in the
final response letter following her complaint to it, and to this Service, that having carried out
independent checks, it thought that Miss M had normal expenses and credit commitment
costs of £889 and £504 respectively.
Lending Stream has explained that in its view Miss Ms income of £2,000 and her
expenditure figure of £1,393, meant that Miss M had £607 left over to pay her loan. As the
monthly loan repayments were scheduled to be £220 then it appeared affordable. The loan
was approved with a commencement date (originally) of 9 May 2013 and this was altered to
be 10 May 2013. Six instalments were due and the loan was scheduled to end
31 October 2013.
Miss M started to struggle to make the payments around August 2013 and in
November 2013 she was in arrears and Lending Stream informed her she needed to remedy
the situation by paying the full amount of just over £437 by 22 November 2013. The debt
was sold to a third party. I have no information about what payments were made to that third
party but Miss M has said that more charges were incurred.
Miss M complained in 2020 and received Lending Streams final response letter and referred
her complaint to this Service in June 2020. In her complaint form Miss M has said that she
does not think that Lending Stream carried out the right checks before approving the loan,
that she struggled to pay it and when the loan was passed to a debt collection agency, she
had to pay their additional fees too. She has requested a refund of the interest and charges
on the loan plus the debt collection agency fees. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think Lending Stream had
carried out the right sort of checks and should have done more. He thought that as shed
declared a £2,000 income and a £2,000 expenditure figure, then Lending Stream ought to
have verified all her financial details to ensure that she could afford to repay the loan.
However, our adjudicator did not think he had enough information from Miss M to be able to
assess what Lending Stream would have seen if it had carried out the verification checks in
May 2013. So, he was not able to say that Lending Stream had lent irresponsibly.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. On 1 April 2021 
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld Miss Ms complaint and invited additional 
points/comments and evidence by 30 April 2021. That provisional decision is duplicated in 
the next section of this final decision and forms part of it.
 
Lending Stream has agreed with my provisional decision and has said it will pay the refund 
plus compensatory interest to her. 
Miss M has raised issues surrounding the debt which had caused her distress and 
inconvenience. And that she wants additional compensation for that. I asked her to send any 
further documents she had to show what had caused the distress and I asked Lending 
Stream to furnish us with more information on the level of contact with Miss M in or around 
2013 and 2014. Both sent me additional documents which I have reviewed. I address this in 
the next part of this final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that [Lending 
Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but thats not applicable to Miss Ms 
complaint as she was approved for one loan. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Office of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guide which was used at the 
time Miss Ms loan was approved, defined sustainable as being the ability to repay without 
undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
My provisional decision findings dated 1 April 2021
Lending Stream says it checked Miss Ms credit file and used Office of National Statistics
(ONS) figures to come to some conclusions. And based on what it saw from this it decided to
lend to Miss M as a result. In February 2021 Lending Stream explained:
We would like to inform you that the values shared in our final response letter 889.00
GBP for normal expense 504.00 GBP for credit-specific were calculated using the
various inputs shared by the customer during application process and the data
gathered from the office of national statistic.
Having looked at all that I have seen from both parties, including the copy bank statements
from Miss M, I have come to a provisional decision that Lending Stream did not carry out
the checks proportionate to the loan amount and the information it had been given and
gathered about Miss M.
The first indication which ought to have been an alert to Lending Stream is that Miss M
declared on her application form that she had no money left over to repay the loan: £2,000
income and £2,000 expenditure.
Its final response letter is incorrect as the table it sets out at the end of it shows that Miss M
had declared all her expenditure as being £0. The records I have seen show me that Miss M
had declared expenditure of £2,000.
Then it carried out a credit search and those results show that she had a mortgage plus 
about £28,000 of other debt. This was a significant sum. And it has said that its independent
checks led it to think that her monthly credit related expenditure was £504. So, it was aware
she had other credit commitments and a large outstanding debt.
Her other expenditure from its independent checks were not specific to Miss M but it had
utilised the ONS figures. Using these figures rather than carrying out full verification of
Miss Ms financial situation as wrong in my view.
Having looked at Miss Ms bank statements I have seen enough to know that she was
overdrawn on her account to £1,300 on 2 May 2013, she was being charged planned and
unplanned overdraft fees. Plus, she was experiencing returned direct debits with the
corresponding fees those attracted as well as account fees. Miss M was committed to at
least one another high cost lender and had to repay over £1,100 in June 2013, which must
have related to a debt that she had in May 2013 when this Lending Stream loan was being
approved. Miss M had a monthly mortgage of around £600 to pay and Council Tax of
around £400. These alone would have used all her income which I can see credited her
bank account in May 2013 as just over £2,000 and in June 2013 at around £1,940.
So, even though I do not have all of Miss Ms financial history for the spring time of 2013, 
I think that I have enough when I combine Lending Streams credit search results, plus the
details I have from Miss M and the brief calculations Lending Stream carried out.
So, I uphold Miss Ms complaint.My final decision findings 
As Lending Stream has agreed with my provisional decision then there is no more to add in 
relation to the main part of the complaint. But I do refer Lending Stream to the specific part of 
the redress section in which I have directed that it ensures Miss M is not out of pocket in 
relation to any additional fees the third party may have charged her. Had the loan not been 
approved, Ms M would not have had to pay any third party fees. And so, my redress section 
includes the fact that Lending Stream must find out what those fees were and ensure that 
Ms M is repaid. So, its recent set of calculation figures will need to be re-done to ensure that 
those are included. 
As for Miss Ms request that she receives additional compensation for distress and 
inconvenience because of the debt, then having reviewed all the documents and 
explanations sent to me by both parties I do not uphold that part of Miss Ms complaint. 
I do further explain to Miss M that built into the redress calculations is an additional 8% (less 
tax) interest and that is to recompense her for not having that loan repayment money since 
2013/2014. And as I have said earlier, I have included in the redress for Miss M a refund of 
the fees charged to Miss M by that third party. 
Overall I consider that to be enough and I do not think that additional compensation is 
necessary. Being in debt is always stressful and I am sorry to hear of it. I hope that the 
resolution of this complaint goes some way towards drawing a close on the matter for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about
what might have happened had it not lent to Miss M at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss M in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Lending Stream shouldnt have given Miss M the loan. I am planning to direct that Lending
Stream does as I have outlined here. Had the loan not been approved, Ms M would not have
had to pay any third party fees. And so, my redress section includes the fact that Lending
Stream must find out what those fees were and ensure that Ms M is not out of pocket.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towardsinterest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments (including additional charges)
made to a third party where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded. 
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M originally
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should pay Miss M the total of A plus B.
D) Normally Id direct that Lending Stream should remove any adverse information it has
recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the loan, but as it was approved in 2013 its
likely that it does not appear now as more than 6 years have passed.
Lending Stream must direct that the third party removes any adverse information in relation
to its ownership of this loan from Miss Ms credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. It must
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct that Gain Credit LLC, trading 
as Lending Stream, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman