DRN-3531453
The complaint
Mr Q complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him for cash machine withdrawals.
What happened
Mr Q was on his way to work and couldnt find his card. Mr Q visited a local Lloyds branch to 
get some cash and there were two cash machine transactions he didnt recognise. Mr Qs 
card was cancelled, and Lloyds looked into the withdrawals.
Lloyds didnt refund the transactions as they were both carried out using Mr Qs card and 
personal identification number (PIN). Lloyds couldnt explain how someone else had got hold 
of Mr Qs card and knew the PIN so it thought Mr Q had authorised the withdrawals.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Q brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things but didnt think Mr Qs complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
couldnt see how someone else had made the transactions.
Mr Q said, in response to the investigators assessment, his PIN was the same as his phone 
PIN and was a memorable date. Mr Q also asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, or contradictory, I can decide things on the balance of 
probabilities. This means Ill look at what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
As a general rule its reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr Q liable for transactions where the 
evidence suggests he authorised them. This doesnt necessarily mean Mr Q made the 
transactions, but by providing his card and PIN hes allowed someone to make them.
Mr Qs said he was visiting friends the night before he noticed his card was missing. His card 
was kept in a wallet in his bag, and his PIN wasnt written down anywhere.
The two cash machine withdrawals took place the following day, around 10.30am.
Mr Q, in response to the investigators assessment, said the PIN for his card is the same as 
the PIN for his mobile phone. Mr Q said its possible someone saw him unlock his phone 
when he was at his friends house and then took and used his card.
But if Mr Qs card had gone missing the night before, it doesnt seem likely someone would 
delay using it. If an unknown third party had Mr Qs card, they wouldnt know when Mr Q 
would notice it missing and cancel it.
Mr Q hasnt used the PIN for his card for a couple of days prior to the cash withdrawal. This 
means I dont think its likely someone saw Mr Q enter his PIN whilst in a shop.
I cant see where its likely Mr Q lost his card. And I cant see where its likely Mr Q had his 
PIN overseen.
Theres no clear point of compromise for either Mr Qs card or PIN. And theres certainly no 
clear point of compromise for both at the same time. I think this only leads to me to one 
conclusion, based on the evidence I have, that Mr Q authorised the withdrawal.
Since I think its more likely than not Mr Q authorised the withdrawal, its reasonable for 
Lloyds to hold him liable for the amount withdrawn. I dont think Lloyds needs to refund the 
disputed cash machine withdrawal.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman