DRN-4211611
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited progressed his legal expenses 
insurance claim from January 2022 (following a previous complaint to our service).
What happened
Mr F has a claim for professional negligence against a solicitors firm who previously acted 
for him. He claimed on his legal expenses insurance with Fairmead for assistance with that. 
Hes made a number of complaints about Fairmeads subsequent actions. 
Most recently another Ombudsman issued a final decision on what happened from July 2019 
until January 2022. Amongst other things she concluded it was reasonable of Fairmead to 
rely on an assessment its panel solicitors had produced which concluded the claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). 
In August 2022 Mr F provided a positive assessment of the claims prospects from his own 
solicitors. Fairmead agreed to seek counsels opinion to resolve matters and Mr Fs solicitors 
provided details of their costs to instruct counsel. There was discussion over the rate 
Fairmead would pay. That was resolved in February 2023 when Fairmead made a revised 
offer which the solicitors accepted. 
Mr Fs solicitors sought quotes from counsel to provide the advice. None of Fairmeads 
preferred chambers were able to assist but it obtained a quote for £5,000 from another 
chambers and asked for approval of that and payments of its costs for drafting the 
instructions. Fairmead referred the matter to its costings unit for approval and provided its 
file to us at the same time. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable of Fairmead to negotiate over the costs it would 
pay for Mr Fs solicitors to draft instructions to counsel. And there were times when Fairmead 
was waiting for a response from Mr Fs solicitors. However, she thought there were 
occasions where Fairmead could have moved matters forward more quickly and said it 
should pay Mr F £100 in recognition of the impact of that on him.
Fairmead agreed with her outcome (and I understand has made payment to Mr F). Mr F 
didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review matters. He didnt provide any further 
comments. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Fairmead has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In common with other legal expenses insurance policies Mr Fs says costs will be paid as 
long the claim has prospects of success. It defines that as it is more likely than not that you 
will recover damages (or other legal remedy) or make a successful defence. Where there 
are conflicting legal opinions on a claims prospects of success our normal approach is to 
say an insurer should pay to obtain a barristers opinion on prospects to provide finality. 
In this case when Mr F provided a positive prospects assessment from his own solicitors I 
think Fairmead were right to conclude a barrister needed to be instructed as there were now 
conflicting legal opinions on this issue. I appreciate there was then discussion over the costs 
it would pay his solicitors to draft the instructions. But I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Fairmead to seek to negotiate on the hourly rate (and time commitment) his solicitors initially 
proposed as their initial email didnt evidence why this was required. Once further 
information was provided on that Fairmeand reviewed matters and made a revised offer 
which was accepted. 
I think it was then reasonable of Fairmead to provide details of its preferred chambers while 
also confirming it would consider an alternative chambers if the quote was equal to or less 
than one from its preferred chambers. It doesnt appear any of Fairmeads preferred 
chambers were able to quote at all but an alternative quote was provided from a different 
chambers which was being considered by Fairmead in March 2023. I appreciate Mr F may 
be unhappy about what subsequently happened but I understand hes made a separate 
complaint to Fairmead about this so that isnt something Im considering in this decision. 
Turning to the time taken for Fairmead to consider matters from August 2022 (when the 
positive prospects assessment was provided) until March 2023, I agree there were periods 
when it was awaiting a response from Mr Fs solicitors and that prevented matters 
progressing. For example his solicitors took from late September to late November to 
provide more information on the justification for their hourly rate. But I think there were times 
when Fairmead could have moved matters forward more quickly. In particular a response 
wasnt provided to his solicitors further hourly rate proposals until early February 2023. 
I appreciate this was a difficult time for Mr F who was concerned about potential limitation 
deadlines for his claim. On the other hand, Im mindful of the fact he did have professional 
representatives acting for him who were pursuing matters on his behalf (and were in a 
position to assist him with any action that was necessary to protect his position). And, as Ive 
said not all of the delay in this period is something Fairmead is responsible for. Taking all of 
that into account I think the £100 our investigator recommended is a reasonable way of 
recognising the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr F was caused by what 
Fairmead got wrong. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited will need to pay Mr F 
£100 to put things right (which I understand it has already done). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman