DRN-3847933
The complaint
Mr D has complained that AWP P&C SA declined a theft claim he made under his Bicycle 
Insurance policy.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat 
them again in full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr D is unhappy that AWP has 
declined a claim he made for the theft of his bike.
The crux of the complaint centres on whether Mr D met the security requirements set out in 
the policy wording. AWP says he didnt because the bike was stored in a communal hallway 
but not locked to an immoveable object  a requirement set out in the policy documents.
Mr D argues that communal area isnt defined in the policy. He says he was the sole 
occupant of the building at the time so he feels that in the particular circumstances here, the 
hallway was more akin to a locked garage, outbuilding or shed  where he wouldnt have 
been required to lock the bike to an immoveable object. Based on this, he says its unfair for 
AWP to decline his claim on the basis that it has.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ds complaint. She didnt agree that the hallway 
could be considered a garage, outbuilding or shed. She said it was a hallway which could 
have been accessed by others. So, she felt AWPs claim decision was in line with the policy 
terms and was fair.
Mr D didnt agree. So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions for theft from an insured location, including the security 
requirements, are set out on pages 23 to 25 of the policy booklet. The most relevant parts of 
these state:
WE WILL COVER YOU FOR
Theft of your pedal cycle, wheelsets & accessories when stored in
the following insured locations and you have adhered to our security
requirements:
LOCATION A
within your home or temporary holiday accommodation
.
LOCATION B
a locked domestic garage, locked outbuilding or
locked shed within the boundaries of your
home or temporary holiday accommodation,
accessed only by you, your family or persons
residing with you
The following are not approved locations:
garage en bloc away from your home
sheds in your front garden or those easily
accessed from the street
sheds or outbuildings with any exposed
screws that can be removed to gain access
Pedal cycles which are unattended for more
than 1 hour within your front garden, or
within walking distance of your home are not
covered for theft.
If youre in any doubt about your garage,
shed or outbuilding, please contact our support team.
SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR LOCATION B
IF all external doors are secured by a deadbolt or a
CEN Grade 3 closed shackle padlock, or all garage
doors are approved by the company Secure by
Design, pedal cycles do NOT need to be locked
to an immovable object
OTHERWISE pedal cycles must be secured
through the frame, with an approved lock, to
an immovable object within the structure
.
LOCATION C
a self-contained lockable room accessed only by
you within a university hall of residence,
boarding school, office or house of multiple occupancy (HMO)LOCATION D
a privately-accessed pedal cycle storage unit
within the immediate boundaries of your home,
hall of residence, boarding school or house of
multiple occupancy (HMO)
a hallway in a block of flats with lockable
access restricted to residents
a balcony with lockable entry accessed only by you on the second floor or above
SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR LOCATION D
A pedal cycle(s) must be secured through the frame
by an approved lock to an immovable object within the storage unit or hallway
Mr Ds building was made up of several flats and some communal hallways. When the theft 
took place, Mr Ds bike was stored in one of the communal hallways without having been 
secured by the frame to an immoveable object.
Mr D has argued that as he was the sole occupant of the building at the time, the hallway 
wasnt accessible by others. Hes highlighted that the policy doesnt define 
common/communal area. And hes shown there was a high fence surrounding the property 
along with security gates.
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ds arguments here. But I dont accept that the building 
being otherwise unoccupied means it would be reasonable to consider a communal hallway 
(by design and by common definition) would amount to part of the home (Location A), a 
garage, shed or outbuilding (B), or a self-contained lockable room (C). I say this because the 
hallway could have been accessed by other people, even if not by other tenants. For 
example, the freeholder or any trades appointed by them, delivery personnel etc.
The intention of the security requirements is to reduce the risk of the bike being stolen. I 
think its reasonable for AWP to consider that a bike stored in an area which can be 
accessed or observed by multiple people is at a greater risk of being stolen than one stored 
out of sight, somewhere where only the owner can access it. Therefore, its not 
unreasonable for AWP to stipulate that a bike stored in the former location must be secured 
to an immoveable object  which it wasnt in this case.
Ive seen that when purchasing the policy, Mr D would have been required to confirm his 
understanding of the security requirements. And I note that the policy document explains 
that if theres any doubt about whether a location could be classed as a garage, shed or 
outbuilding (as Mr D has argued his hallway should be) that the policyholder should contact 
AWP  which Mr D didnt in this case either.
Ultimately, I think AWP is correct to consider that Mr Ds hallway most closely meets the 
definition of Location D and therefore that the bike needed to be secured to an immoveable 
object  which it wasnt. Based on this, Im satisfied that AWPs claim decision is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman