DRN-3731693
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were mis-sold investments by Clydesdale Bank Plc.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs R were advised by Clydesdale to invest £60,000 to meet their objective 
of generating income, as they had a monthly income shortfall of around £160. For tax 
efficiency reasons, they were advised to split the investment and hold it as follows:
£7,000 in an ISA in Mr Rs name, invested in the High Income fund, generating £30 
per month income
£7,000 in an ISA in Mrs Rs name, invested in the High Income fund, generating £30 
per month income
£34,000 in an OEIC in Mrs Rs name, invested in the High Income fund, generating 
£116 per month income
£12,000 in an OEIC in Mrs Rs name, invested in the Diversified Bond fund, with no 
income being taken, to include a growth element to the portfolio 
In 2021 Mr and Mrs R made a complaint via the CMC to Clydesdale, saying in summary:
Their attitude to risk was not fully assessed.
They were advised to place too much at risk  Mr R had recently sold a business and 
received £140,000. They already had plans for £80,000 of that total and were 
advised to invest the whole of the remaining £60,000.
Their future needs and objectives were not fully considered.
In reply to the complaint, Clydesdale said it had been made too late to be considered, so Mr 
and Mrs R brought their complaint to our service. An investigator at our service considered 
the complaint and found it had been brought in time, but that he thought the advice had been 
suitable, so he didnt uphold it. The CMC disagreed, saying that in particular they were 
advised to invest too much. The investigator explained there was no expected expenditure 
listed in the point of sale documents, so he wasnt inclined to change his opinion. So, the 
CMC asked that the case be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk was recorded as the second of seven available levels  one 
step up from no risk. It was defined as an investor looking to minimise the possibility of 
negative returns on their portfolio, whilst retaining the potential for real returns over and 
above inflation. The CMC doesnt dispute that the funds chosen were low risk  the main 
point in dispute is the amount being placed at risk against the background of their planned 
expenditure. 
The CMC has said £40,000 was required to repay personal guarantees given for Mr Rs 
business, and around the same amount had been earmarked for home improvements. 
Neither of these is mentioned in the fact find document from 2004, which sets out the 
advisers notes of the discussions that took place. Nor are they mentioned in the suitability 
letter sent to Mr and Mrs R setting out the recommendation. 
I consider the documents completed at the time of the sale to be more persuasive than the 
recollections being put forward now, almost 20 years after the advice. This is because the 
written documents are contemporaneous to the advice, and in particular, they include 
specific questions about Mr and Mrs Rs debts. 
In the fact find the adviser wrote, under the title Liabilities There are no joint liabilities and 
in the suitability letter, they said You have confirmed that you have no mortgage or loans 
outstanding. No other evidence has been provided showing the date or amount of the 
personal guarantee being fulfilled. The CMC has said that the personal guarantees wouldnt 
have been called a loan or a mortgage, as it isnt quite the same type of debt  but when 
asked generally about liabilities, Mr and Mrs R said they had none. 
Its possible the personal guarantees had already been paid off at that stage, in which case, 
Mr and Mrs R had £140,000 left after doing that. Or Mr and Mrs R failed to disclose to the 
adviser that an amount was still due to be paid, despite being asked directly. Im satisfied it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for the adviser to have taken the personal guarantees into 
account if Mr and Mrs R didnt disclose them when asked directly.  
Regarding Mr and Mrs Rs plans for the remainder of the money  Im persuaded that there 
was a conversation of sorts about their plans, as the adviser noted ultimately you intend to 
pass the funds onto your two children as part of their inheritance you wished to allocate 
£60,000 towards income and growth generation and you wished to retain the remainder in 
accessible bank accounts to provide a balance between long term plans and any short term 
requirements.
The CMC has said their home improvement plans were at an early stage. To me, that 
suggests they werent fully fleshed out or costed  and given there are no notes about home 
improvements in the documents, Im satisfied that these werent specifically discussed with 
the adviser. I have no evidence  other than the recollections of Mr and Mrs R  to show that 
they had short-term plans for the £80,000 on deposit after this investment. Based on 
everything Ive seen, Im persuaded the adviser wasnt made aware of those plans and Im 
satisfied it would be unreasonable for the adviser to be expected to take them into account. 
Given Mr and Mrs Rs income need, it was necessary for them to invest a sufficient amount 
to generate that income. Overall, Im satisfied that the amount they invested was not 
unsuitable as it allowed them to generate the appropriate amount. The total income 
generated was £176 per month, slightly over their need, but as it was not a guaranteed 
amount of income, the adviser said this allowed for fluctuations. Having considered it, I 
agree that its a fair reason for the amount being slightly in excess of the specific need. 
The CMC argues there was no need to take a risk in order for Mr and Mrs Rs objectives to 
be fulfilled and have pointed to deposit based savings interest rates that were available at 
the time. I accept that there would have been multiple ways for Mr and Mrs R to fulfil their 
objective  my role is to decide whether the one recommended was unsuitable. Clydesdale has explained that Mr and Mrs Rs attitude to risk would have been established 
using a questionnaire but unfortunately, we dont have the one Mr and Mrs R completed at 
the time of the sale. Theres no record of Mr and Mrs R investing previously, so Im not 
surprised that their attitude to risk was recorded as being at the lower end of the scale. Im 
satisfied the risk levels were clearly defined, and so Mr and Mrs R would have been aware of 
the fact they were taking a small amount of risk with their money. 
Ive considered their capacity to take that risk  particularly in the knowledge that Ive found 
the adviser reasonably thought Mr and Mrs R would have been left with over £80,000 on 
deposit after this sale. Also, I note that after two years, Mr Rs income was due to increase 
as he would be entitled to his state pension, so their capacity to make up for losses was 
going to increase slightly. Its recorded that Mr and Mrs R wished to receive the income from 
this portfolio despite that, to allow them to fund holidays and other personal expenditure and 
I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Given the £80,000 remaining on deposit, and the diversification within the chosen portfolio 
(to allow for some growth as well as the income) Im satisfied that it wasnt unsuitable for Mr 
and Mrs R to take this level of risk. Overall, Im persuaded that it wasnt unsuitable for Mr 
and Mrs R to invest the £60,000 into the chosen funds. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman