DRN-2416618
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) transferred funds 
to a holding account when an international transfer failed, instead of back to their account 
straight away, which resulted in financial loss. 
 
What happened
Mr H and his mother, Mrs H, hold a joint bank account with NatWest in the UK, which has 
been used to receive his mothers pension. Mr H said he and his mother periodically transfer 
money from this account to a bank account in Australia. On 27 February 2020 Mr H sent a 
request registered from Australia to NatWest to convert and pay GBP 40,000 into the 
Australian bank account. He said they also sent an instruction to the administrators of the 
pension (P) to change the account that Mrs Hs pension is paid into. NatWest provided a 
payment debit advice dated 10 March. 
On 17 March NatWest wrote to Mr H to inform him that the payment had been returned as 
the beneficiary account was closed. It said the funds were held in a holding account until 
new instructions and gave a deadline of 6 April. The letter indicated the GBP loss at that 
time. NatWest sent a follow up letter dated 7 April as it hadnt received a response from Mrs 
H or Mr H. It again requested new instructions with a deadline for 27 April. At that point the 
funds would be returned to their account. NatWest returned the funds to Mrs H and Mr Hs 
account on 1 May.
In or around the middle of April Mr H received an email from P advising that the account he 
had nominated was closed and the most recent payment had bounced back. Prompted by 
this email from P Mr H then checked the NatWest payment instruction and discovered hed 
also used details of a closed account for the international payment. He sent a revised 
instruction to the local NatWest branch, by international registered post with the correct 
account details. This transaction was cancelled because there werent enough funds in Mrs 
H and Mr Hs account.
Mr H complained to NatWest. He said it should have returned the funds to his GBP account 
as soon as the payment rejected. He also said NatWest should have called him when the 
transaction failed and should have made allowances in its time frames for the worldwide 
disruption of the mail service caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. He also complained the 
revised payment request was not linked to the funds kept in the holding account. 
Mr H eventually made the transaction in late May and said he made a loss of GBP 3,000 due 
to exchange rate fluctuations. He asked NatWest to reverse the foreign exchange 
transaction and process it at the original value. He said NatWests first letter of 17 March did 
not refer to the foreign exchange transaction, it said it would place the funds in a holding 
account pending instructions. He said he and his mother acted in good faith as soon as they 
were able to, and sent a revised mandate on 3 April, before NatWests second letter. 
In its final response NatWest said that no bank error had occurred. It said it had sent two 
letters to Mr H on 17 March and 7 April regarding the transaction but did not receive a reply. 
And so the money was returned to the joint bank account. It also said that the follow up 
instruction Mr H did send was sent to a local branch and was absent both the investigation 
reference and the payment reference. This meant this second instruction was treated as a 
new payment instruction. 
Mrs H and Mr H brought their complaint to this service. Mr H said international exchange 
rate risk would have been avoided had the money been put back immediately, and this 
would have allowed the second transfer request to have been processed. He said instead he 
was told by NatWest that his revised instruction was received by the bank but could not be 
processed because the funds were not in their account  they were in the holding account. 
Our investigator concluded NatWest hadnt done anything wrong and that it had acted in Mrs 
H and Mr Hs best interest by holding on to the funds. The investigator said this couldve 
prevented a loss if Mr H had replied to NatWests letters correctly.
Mr H did not agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H and Mr H, but having done so I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything further. 
Its not disputed that Mr H put the incorrect account details on the initial instruction for the 
transaction. And he discovered this after some communication with the third party, P rather 
than through NatWests initial letter.
Mr H said the course of action NatWest chose, which was to hold the money between 11 
March and 1 May and then return it, had severely prejudiced he and his mother and exposed 
them to exchange rate risk. But Mrs H and Mr H were already exposed to exchange rate risk 
because the transaction failed after it had converted to AUD. At the start of the transaction 
the GBP 40,000 was changed to AUD 77,961 and then sent to the beneficiary bank. After it 
was rejected a total of AUD 77,946 was sent back to NatWest. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of international transfers.  It says: 
If a payment is returned, it will be re-credited to the originating account. If the 
payment is returned in a different currency from the currency of the account, it will be 
converted at the exchange rate applicable at the date and time it is credited to the 
account. This means that the payment to the account may be more or less than the 
original debit.
Banks and their customers are obliged to follow the terms and conditions. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service and, in making a decision, Im able to deviate from 
applying the terms and conditions if I believe it fair and reasonable to do so. NatWest told 
this service that when the loss on a returned payment is more than GBP 100 its process is to 
hold the funds and ask the customer by letter what they would like to do with the funds. It 
said this gives the customer the opportunity to send the funds again to amended details and 
avoid a potential foreign exchange loss on the payment. It said this is not listed in the terms 
and conditions as it is a courtesy to customers to try to avoid them suffering a high loss on 
their payment. NatWest said usually customers do wish to send again with amended details 
rather than accept the loss.Had NatWest returned the money immediately, the loss, indicated at the time, was 
GBP1,727. At the time of the second letter the loss was indicated at GBP1,625. Having 
received no new instruction with the relevant reference numbers NatWest returned 
GBP39,263 to Mrs H and Mr Hs account on 1 May. This indicates a loss of GBP737.
While NatWests action of holding the payment is not part of its terms and conditions, Im 
persuaded it took this action in Mrs H and Mr Hs best interests, to help mitigate any foreign 
exchange rate losses, as most customers attempt the transaction again. And, indeed, it was 
Mr Hs intention to attempt the transaction again. So, I consider it fair and reasonable. It 
returned the money after it received no response to either of its letters. Again, I find this to be 
a fair and reasonable course of action. 
NatWest processed the foreign exchange transaction on 10 March, the transaction was 
cancelled on 11 March and it wrote to Mr H on 17 March to inform him the beneficiary 
account was closed. Mr H said that while NatWest phoned him in Australia to verify the initial 
transaction it did not call him when the transaction failed. He believes it should have. I do 
understand why Mr H might expect a call, particularly during a period of uncertainty caused 
by Covid-19, but NatWest has said this is not its process. Its not my role to examine a 
banks process so I am unable to comment on why it wouldnt call. But Im satisfied it did 
attempt to contact Mr H in writing, twice, and in the absence of an email address for Mr H, it 
sent letters. 
Mr H has said he sent a new instruction to NatWest on 3 April but there is no date on the 
new instruction. Correspondence between Mrs H and P concerning the incorrect account 
was on 15 April and Mr H has said he realised he had given the incorrect account details to 
NatWest after this mail. 
Mr H hasnt said if he contacted NatWest by phone or email between 11 March and 15 April 
when he realised the error he had made or to check if the transaction had gone through. And 
NatWest has not provided any evidence he made contact or that Mr H logged into his 
account. So it seems possible that he didnt. Mr H also hasnt said if he checked the balance 
of the beneficiary account to ensure the transaction had taken place during that time period. 
Given the significant size of the transaction it would be reasonable to expect Mrs H or Mr H 
to have checked both bank accounts on the progress of the transaction during that five-week 
period. 
I also think it reasonable that on discovering he had given the incorrect account details Mr H 
would have checked his bank account online and/or contacted NatWest, at this point, to 
identify where his money was.  I cant say for certain, but it does seem likely this didnt 
happen. 
Mr H sent a new instruction but it didnt contain any of the reference numbers relating it to 
his previous instruction, so it was treated as a new transaction. The letter invited Mr H to 
either write to the address on the letter, which was a central NatWest address, or to visit a 
branch. Im satisfied it did not instruct Mr H to send the new instruction to the branch. 
Mr H believes that NatWest should have noted on their account that there was a transaction 
query for branch staff to see, that would have allowed them to match the transactions. But  
the purpose of the references on the letter and the instructions to write centrally or to visit the 
branch was to allow Mr H to refer to the initial transaction using the references. I also note 
that the new instruction was for GBP 45,000 which is not the same as the original instruction.
And its not unusual for customers to make multiple foreign exchange transactions. So I dont 
think the NatWest branch staff could have expected this to be related to the first instruction 
unless the relevant reference numbers were present.Mr H believes NatWest should have called him when the transaction failed, especially with 
the post delays due to recent Covid-19 restrictions. The failed transaction occurred on 11 
March and NatWest returned the money on 1 May. During this period it sent two letters, 17 
March and 7 April, with a deadline of 27 April. I can understand Mr Hs frustration that 
NatWest relied on the post during this time of disruption. But this was a seven-week period 
and I consider it was Mrs H and Mr Hs responsibility to check their accounts on the status of 
the transaction, and contact NatWest directly when Mr H discovered the transaction had 
failed, especially as this was a significant amount of money and involved foreign exchange 
fluctuations. Had they done so during this time they would have been aware the money was 
being held pending further instruction and could have attempted the transaction again with 
new account details, without the money being transferred back into GBP and into their UK 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman