DRN-4253825
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
What happened
A family member who lived in a property owned by Mrs S contacted British Gas when she 
smelled sewage in the bathroom. British Gas visited a few times over the following months. 
The engineer couldnt find an issue and said the problem was probably due to condensation. 
British Gas visited again when water was found on the floor. The engineer found that rats 
had chewed through the flexi pan connector, which he replaced.
Mrs S complained to British Gas because she said the issue should have been found during 
one of the earlier visits and the bathroom had been damaged because it failed to do so. 
When British Gas responded, it said it had investigated the possible causes and there 
couldnt have been a leak until the water was noticed on the floor. It didnt think it had missed 
any leaks and had found excessive condensation in the bathroom. It offered £200 
compensation as a gesture of good will.
When Mrs S complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to show the damage was caused by British Gas and he thought it was 
more likely than not that it was due to condensation. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
British Gas sent an engineer on multiple occasions. Im aware Mrs Ss family member has 
said it was the same engineer who visited and that she thought he showed little interest in 
finding the issue. The engineer thought any issues were due to excessive condensation. It 
was only when a different engineer visited that a damaged pan connector was found. 
When British Gas investigated, it noted that the pan connector was on the underside, rather 
than the top. It said that, due to the volume of water used in each flush, if the damage had 
been there for longer, water would have appeared on the floor much earlier. It said the 
excessive condensation in the bathroom was the cause. It said a mat had also been wet and 
damaged the floor. Ive also seen the photos British Gas took when it investigated whether it 
was responsible for the damage, which were taken a few months after the damaged 
connector was replaced. These showed the damage and that condensation still seemed to 
be present in the bathroom.
Mrs S has also provided a plumbers report. This said the plumber had cut the floor lino and 
found it was very wet underneath. He thought the floor damage was caused by wastewater 
that had got under the lino, rather than the mat causing the damage. He thought previous 
issues with the waste pipe had been the source of the damage. He also found that the flush 
pipe from the cistern had a small drip after three to four flushes. It was unknown how long 
this had been dripping, but that he would like to think an experienced plumber would have 
located it and fixed it if it had been there for a while. He said there wasnt any evidence of 
condensation on the cistern and there was adequate ventilation in the bathroom, despite 
there being no window, with an extractor fan and the door being left open after the bathroom 
had been used.
Looking at the evidence, Im not persuaded it showed British Gas was responsible for the 
damage to the bathroom. British Gas found condensation in the bathroom during its 
engineer visits and when it visited following the complaint. Although Mrs Ss plumber didnt 
find condensation, this was several months after the problem had been fixed and at a 
different time of year. It also doesnt explain why, if the damage was to the underside of the 
pan connector, it was unreasonable for British Gas to say water would have appeared on the 
bathroom floor sooner if that had been the issue during previous visits. 
In terms of the drip Mrs Ss plumber found, I dont think I can fairly say this was likely to be 
the cause of the damage. Three people from British Gas investigated the source of the leak 
and none of them found this issue. Im aware Mrs S doesnt think the first engineer did 
enough to find the source of the issue, including that he didnt lift the shelf in a cupboard to 
see if water was pooling underneath. But I havent seen anything that causes me to think he 
would more likely than not have found water there even if he had done so. This is because I 
dont think the evidence shows the leak from the pan connector that was later found was 
likely to have been there during the earlier visits or that it was unreasonable for the first 
engineer to think condensation was the source of the issue.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require British Gas 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman