DRN-2430679
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) has not properly compensated him for a      
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for 
the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mr R opened a store card in 2001. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy.
Around 2014 Mr R complained about the sale of the PPI. AXA wrote to Mr R rejecting his 
complaint.
In 2019 the complaint was re-opened.
In May 2019 AXA wrote to Mr R offering to pay £1.79 compensation for undisclosed 
commission on the policy.
In June 2019 AXA wrote again to Mr R upholding the mis-sale of the policy. AXA offered     
Mr R a total of £270.58.
Mr R didnt think this properly compensated him and after corresponding further with AXA he 
asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought AXA had fairly compensated Mr R.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
AXA has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So, I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mr R. Ive looked at the compensation AXA has 
offered Mr R to see if it calculated the redress fairly.
Having done so I think AXA has fairly compensated Mr R, and Ill explain why.
Where a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id expect the business to, as far as is practical, 
put the consumer in the position theyd be in if the policy hadnt been sold.
When a business compensates a consumer for mis-sold PPI on a store card, wed normally 
expect it to reconstruct the consumers account as if they hadnt taken out PPI. Wed then 
expect the business to refund to the consumer all the extra they paid because of the PPI.
Id also expect a business to add interest calculated at 8% simple for the time theyd not 
had use of the money.
To do this a business needs to know the actual amounts the consumer spent on the store 
card as the PPI premiums are linked to the outstanding monthly balance.
In this case AXA has detailed records of Mr Rs account after August 2005. But between 
2001 and July 2005 it doesnt hold detailed records of the account. I dont find this 
unusual as businesses are not required to keep detailed records indefinitely.
AXA does however know that in total Mr R was charged £75.43 for PPI over the whole 
term of the policy. From this AXA was able to work out how much Mr R was charged for 
PPI before August 2005. It just does not know in which months the PPI was charged. So, 
it has assumed that the store card was opened in 2001 and the balance gradually 
increased to the August 2005 level and it allocated the total PPI premiums accordingly. In 
the absence of any other persuasive evidence Id usually think this was a fair way to 
calculate PPI compensation where there is missing data. 
AXA has used this information to carry out a reconstruction of Mr Rs account as if he 
hadnt been sold the PPI. And its worked out that Mr R would have been charged £73.37 
interest because of the PPI premiums.
So, AXA refunded all the PPI premiums Mr R was charged for the PPI (£75.43) and the 
extra interest hed been charged because of the PPI (£73.37).
AXA also paid Mr R compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time hed 
been out of pocket. This came to £121.78 net of income tax.
So, in total AXA offered Mr R £270.58. This included any undisclosed commission so 
superseded the earlier offer of £1.79.
Mr R disagrees with the way AXA reconstructed his account. Mr R says he supplied AXA 
with original statements from before August 2005 when he made his original complaint.      
Mr R says these statements show he used the store card more when he first opened it so 
the balance started high and then reduced, rather than gradually increasing. So Mr R thinks 
he should receive more interest as part of the compensation.
Unfortunately Mr R sent original copies of the statements to AXA and didnt retain copies. 
And AXA didnt retain any documents from the 2014 complaint after it had closed. So there 
are no statements available from before August 2005.
I appreciate Mr R thinks AXA should have retained the documents he supplied when he first 
made a complaint. But I think AXA acted reasonably in deleting all the data it held on the 
complaint once it was closed.
Ultimately AXA has refunded all the PPI premiums paid by Mr R. And I think it has 
reconstructed Mr Rs account in a fair way. Without any more persuasive evidence I dont 
think it would be fair for me to direct AXA to reconstruct the account differently. 
My final decisionMy Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. AXA France IARDs offer is fair and 
calculated in the way Id expect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman