DRN-3534272
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Worldwide Currencies Limited (WCL) 
wont refund the money its lost to a scam.
Mrs T, who is a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
Whats happened?
B has fallen victim to an email interception scam.
On 4 June 2020, Mrs T sent WCL an email asking it to pay a total of $66,458.23 to an 
international account held by one of Bs regular suppliers (the supplier). She provided new 
account details for the supplier, which she had received via email. Unbeknown to her, the 
suppliers email account had been hacked, and the hacker had sent the new account details 
 which werent really for an account held by the supplier.
WCL instructed a third-party bank to send Bs money to the nominated account.
When the fraud came to light, Mrs T complained to WCL. She said that it failed to take 
reasonable steps to protect B from financial harm.
WCLs response to Bs complaint
WCL has said that it is its policy, when it receives a new payment instruction or a request to 
amend a payment instruction via email, to call its customer and confirm the payment 
instruction received is legitimate and correct. This is to help prevent fraud by email 
interception. 
So, when WCL received Mrs Ts email on 4 June 2020, it emailed her asking her to call and 
confirm the new account details and verify the name on the nominated account (as this was 
missing from the payment instruction). WCLs email said: Could you please call me back so 
I can confirm the new bank details with you and also can you please e-mail back the account 
name please?
In response to its emails, WCL says Mrs T called it and verified the account number, and 
she was asked if the account name had also been verified. She said she would check with 
the supplier, and she called back later the same day to confirm that she had done so. The 
payment she had instructed was then made.
WCL says that, in later calls, Mrs T confirmed to it that she had been asked to double-check 
the new account details with the supplier, but when she called the supplier, she only asked 
for the account name and did not mention the new account number. So, although WCL 
asked Mrs T to assure herself of the new account details by calling the supplier, she failed to 
make adequate checks. B is responsible for providing WCL with accurate information, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of its account.
WCL took immediate action to try and recover the funds B lost to the fraud. But 
unfortunately, no funds have been recovered. 
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that WCL asked Mrs T to check the new account number 
with the supplier. And, in any event, they thought that WCL missed an opportunity to prevent 
the fraud by asking Mrs T probing questions about the payment she had instructed and 
giving her relevant warnings about email interception scams.
Our investigator recommended that WCL reimburse the $66,458.23 transaction and pay B 
8% simple interest from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement.
WCLs response to our investigator
WCL did not accept our investigators assessment of Bs complaint. In summary, WCL said:
The email WCL sent Mrs T on 4 June 2020 shows an intention to check the new 
account details and name. There is no proof that WCL did not do so in the call that 
took place later that day, and it questions why our investigator would conclude it is 
more likely than not that it didnt do so. WCL maintains that it did ask Mrs T to check 
the new account details and name with the supplier, and it says that, just because 
Mrs T did not follow its instructions, it cannot be assumed that the instructions were 
not given.
The email of 4 June 2020 is evidence that Mrs T was asked to check the new 
account name and number with the supplier.
Mrs T confirmed that WCL asked her to verify the account details with the supplier in 
a call that took place on 17 August 2020. It was only in a call that took place on       
20 August 2020 that she admitted she didnt check the new account number with the 
supplier. When she admitted to not checking the account number, she didnt say it 
was because she wasnt advised to do so, she said she didnt because she had the 
account number on what she thought was a genuine email, so she just asked for the 
account name which was missing.
WCL asked Mrs T probing questions about the payment shed instructed on              
4 June 2020, and it gave her sufficient fraud warnings. WCL said that the suppliers 
bank details hadnt changed before and this was suspicious, and it advised Mrs T to 
call the supplier and double-check the details because theres a lot of fraudulent 
activity going on and she needs to keep her wits about her. So, WCL acted 
reasonably at the time and Mrs T failed to make adequate checks with the supplier.
The relevant transaction was authorised.
B is a company and Mrs T is experienced in business, yet our investigator has held 
WCL to a higher standard of care than B/Mrs T.
There is no evidence that B has suffered a financial loss as a result of the fraud. In a 
call which took place on 20 August 2020, Mrs T told WCL that B wasnt out of pocket 
as shed held onto the stock shed attempted to pay for.  
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be addressing every argument that has been put forward by the parties, of which 
there have been many, but no disrespect is intended. It doesnt follow that I havent 
considered every argument, I simply dont need to address each point in reaching an 
outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable. I have concentrated on the issues that I think 
are central to the outcome of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that the relevant transaction was authorised, and that WCL had an 
obligation to follow Bs payment instruction. But thats not the end of the story. Taking into 
account regulators rules and guidance and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider that WCL owed a duty of care to protect its customers against 
the risk of fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. 
I accept that B is a company, and Mrs T may be experienced in business, but it doesnt 
follow that B or Mrs T should reasonably possess any special knowledge of email 
interception scams. Firms are generally more familiar with fraud and scams than their 
customers, and I would expect firms to be taking steps to protect their customers from the 
risk of harm from fraud. 
WCLs fraud prevention policy says: 
New Payee instructions
To ensure our clients emails have not been intercepted, when we receive a new payment 
instruction or a request to amend a payment instruction via email, we always call the client 
on a registered contact number and confirm that the payment instructions received are 
legitimate and correct.
From this, I am satisfied that WCL was aware of email interception scams and their common 
features, and that WCL can reasonably be expected to take steps to protect its customers 
from email interception scams where a scam risk is identified.
WCL noticed that Mrs T had provided new account details for the supplier, and it made 
contact with her about this. The question for me to decide is whether WCL did enough to 
protect B from financial harm. 
Unfortunately, WCL hasnt been able to provide recordings of the telephone conversations it 
had with Mrs T on 4 June 2020, and it hasnt provided any contemporaneous contact notes 
in relation to the calls either. Its not in dispute that the telephone conversations took place, 
but the parties dont agree on what was said. WCL has said that other evidence its been 
able to provide shows what was said during the calls, but I cant agree. WCLs fraud 
prevention policy sets out that it should call clients when it receives a new payment 
instruction or a request to amend a payment instruction via email, to check that the payment 
instruction received is legitimate and correct and ensure the clients email hasnt been 
intercepted. I think the email WCL sent to Mrs T on 4 June 2020 is evidence of it following 
this policy. But it only shows that WCL asked Mrs T to confirm the suppliers new account 
details with it, not that WCL went on to advise Mrs T to check the new account details with 
the supplier. And Ive listened to call recordings of the conversations that took place between 
WCL and Mrs T on 17 and 20 August 2020, but I didnt hear Mrs T confirm that she was 
advised to check the new account number with the supplier over the telephone as WCL says 
she did. Theres reference to reading out the new account number in the call of 17 August 
2020, but I dont think it follows that WCL asked Mrs T to read the new account number out 
to the supplier when it spoke to her on 4 June 2020  it could just be thats what WCL 
expected Mrs T to do, without specifically advising her to do so.In the circumstances, I must draw conclusions based on the balance of probabilities  that is 
to say, what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mrs T says that WCL asked her to call the supplier and check the name on the new account, 
because that was missing from her payment instruction, and that is what she did. WCL says 
it advised Mrs T to check the new account details and name with the supplier. Given that 
Mrs T did make a call to the supplier and asked for the account name, I think its most likely 
that she wouldve checked the new account number too if shed been clearly advised to do 
so  particularly if the scam risk had been made clear to her. I dont think its likely she 
wouldve taken steps to follow WCLs instructions by contacting the supplier but neglected to 
check all of the details WCL had clearly advised her to check. So, Im persuaded that its 
most likely WCL either didnt advise Mrs T to check the new account number with the 
supplier, or it didnt clearly advise her to do so.
In any event, I havent seen evidence from either party that WCL asked Mrs T appropriate 
questions about the payment or sufficiently educated her about email interception scams as I 
wouldve expected it to do. WCL knew that the account details of a regular payee were 
changing, and in the arguments it has made, WCL has made it clear it was aware that this is 
a common feature of email interception scams. Mrs T wasnt being coached by the fraudster, 
so I think she wouldve spoken freely to WCL. If it had asked her some probing questions 
about the payment, I think it would most likely have become apparent that shed received the 
new account details via email (if it wasnt clear, and theres a suggestion in the arguments 
WCL has presented that it was). WCL ought to have given Mrs T information about the 
prevalence of email interception scams and the risk of receiving payment details in the way 
she had. If WCL had brought the common features and risks of this type of scam to Mrs Ts 
attention, shed have had the knowledge she needed to adequately protect B from the scam. 
Shes said she wouldve checked the new account number with the supplier if WCL had 
sufficiently educated her about email interception scams, and I think thats likely  
particularly as she did contact the supplier at WCLs request. Had Mrs T checked the new 
account number with the supplier, as I think she wouldve, I think the scam wouldve quickly 
unfolded and B wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
But Mrs T says the risk of harm from fraud was not brought to her attention on 4 June 2020. 
The conversation between WCL and Mrs T which took place on 20 August 2020 appears to 
support this  it seems like the first time the parties discussed how email interception scams 
work, and Mrs T tells WCL that, as far as she knew, the email came from the supplier. She 
says she just thought she needed to request the account name from the supplier as this was 
missing from her payment instruction. 
WCL has said it told Mrs T that the suppliers bank details changing was suspicious, and it 
advised Mrs T to call the supplier and double-check the details because theres a lot of 
fraudulent activity going on and she needs to keep her wits about her. But I dont think this is 
sufficient warning because it doesnt bring to life how email interception scams work  it 
doesnt explain, for example, that scammers will often request payment of invoices to new 
account details and that their emails often appear genuine and look like they come from the 
correct email address. An instruction to check the new account details with the supplier is 
somewhat meaningless without context because it doesnt explain why the new account 
details needs to be checked or fully equip the recipient with the knowledge required to 
protect themselves from financial harm.  
Overall, I think that WCL shouldve asked Mrs T appropriate questions about the payment 
and given her sufficient information about how email interception scams to enable her to 
protect B from financial harm. If it had done so, I think the fraud wouldve been prevented 
and B would not have suffered a financial loss. So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome 
here is to uphold the complaint and require WCL to reimburse B. WCL has suggested that B may not have suffered a financial loss in this case, because it 
received the stock it intended to pay the supplier for when it was defrauded. But, from what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that it has. Mrs T has shown that B has gone on to pay the supplier 
$20,000 towards the relevant invoice, and that the rest of the debt remains owing to the 
supplier for payment in the future. So, B has received the stock, but it owes the supplier for 
that stock, and it has lost the money it intended to pay the supplier with to this scam. 
B owed the supplier the $66,458.23 that was paid to the scammer. So, but for the fraud, B 
would not have had use of that money for other things or had the opportunity to earn interest 
on the money. But B has paid the supplier $20,000 towards the relevant invoice that it 
wouldnt have needed to pay if it hadnt been defrauded. B would have had the extra 
$20,000 available to spend on other things, but I cant know what that money wouldve been 
spent on. So, I think its fairest to award 8% simple interest per annum on the extra $20,000 
B would have had available to spend from the date it paid this amount to the supplier (8 
January 2021) to the date of settlement. 
Finally, I have considered whether B should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence. But I dont think it should. Mrs T received an email which appeared 
to come from the supplier. And she contacted the supplier to obtain the extra information she 
thought WCL needed to process the payment. Ive concluded that WCL didnt sufficiently 
educate Mrs T on the type of fraud concerned. Overall, Im persuaded that Mrs T did not 
realise anything was amiss when she instructed the relevant payment, and I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. She was the unwitting and blameless victim of a 
sophisticated scam.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Worldwide Currencies Limited to:
Reimburse the $66,458.23 that B lost to the scam; and
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the extra £20,000 B would have had available 
to spend from the date it paid this amount to the supplier (8 January 2021) to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman