DRN-2909134
The complaint
Ms B complains, in her capacity as trustee for Mr W, that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) closed 
her clients bank account without proper notification and then took several months to re-open 
it.
What happened
Ms B says she acts jointly as trustee for her vulnerable client Mr W and operates a bank 
account with HSBC in her clients name. Ms B says following a notification from a 
government department a payment had been returned, she learned that HSBC had closed 
the bank account, although she had never had any notification of this. Ms B says letters had 
been sent incorrectly by HSBCs safeguarding team, addressed to the legal practice where 
she is a partner and not, as they had been asked to, in the name of the trustees. Ms B says 
the closure of the bank account has led to significant additional costs and even post her 
complaint, HSBC have continued to address correspondence incorrectly. Ms B wants HSBC 
to reimburse these costs. 
HSBC says, their safeguarding team sent several letters clearly stating action was needed to 
prevent the account being closed and while these werent addressed to her specifically, they 
were addressed to her legal firm, in accordance with the records they held. HSBC says they 
never had any contact from Ms B or any other party to the bank account and it was closed in 
line with their procedures. HSBC says as a gesture of goodwill they reinstated the bank 
account and say they have made no error here.
Ms B wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt HSBC had written to the address held for Ms Bs legal practice and it would be 
reasonable to expect that one of these letters would have resulted in contact from the 
business, but it didnt. The investigator also says HSBC have acted fairly in agreeing, as a 
gesture of goodwill, to reopen the bank account pending a full safeguard review. 
Ms B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see that it would have been both frustrating and time consuming for Ms B to have 
learnt her clients bank account had been closed by HSBC, without any prior knowledge of 
this. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if HSBC acted unfairly in closing her 
clients/trustee bank account.
Ms B has made a number of points relating to this complaint and while these have proved 
helpful, I wont be commenting on every point she has made as I dont feel it is necessary in 
order to come to a full and impartial decision here  thats not to say I havent considered 
everything shes said -I have. That said, from the information provided to this service, the 
main body of the complaint is Ms B never received any correspondence from HSBC 
regarding a safeguarding review of her client's bank account, before they closed it. Ms B 
maintains no letters were received or actioned by her, as the address used on the 
correspondence was that of the firm, she is partner of, and not with her name as trustee for 
her client. Ms B maintains given the firm has many clients, it would make it very difficult for 
them to identify their client or appropriate partner, without any account details or client name. 
Mrs B also maintains that even if the firm had tried to contact HSBC, the lack of any detailed 
reference on the correspondence meant HSBC wouldnt have been able to identify the bank 
account in question. Ms B says other types of correspondence from HSBC had been sent 
previously which had identified her clients details. Ms B also says given the importance of 
these letters, HSBC never attempted to contact her by telephone and the subsequent 
closure of the bank account has caused her a great deal of inconvenience and cost.
The first thing to say here is that I have seen copies of correspondence sent by HSBC and in 
total four letters were sent stating action needed to be taken to avoid the account closure. 
While HSBC have said two attempts were made to telephone the trustees in August and 
October 2019, I havent been provided with any call recordings, so I am unable to say with 
any certainty, if these calls were actually made or not. Ms B has stated that she has asked 
HSBC for correspondence to be properly annotated in the past. While I have been provided 
with letters between both HSBC and the trustees indicting whom the trustees are/were and  
matters relating to chequebooks and signatories, I havent seen any evidence to support 
specific instructions were given to HSBC to remove the firms name from the postal address. 
Its worth saying, this arrangement seems to have been in existence for many years and I 
have seen previous, older correspondence with the same name and address stated on it, 
including a more recent application for online banking facilities.
That said, the safeguarding review letters HSBC refer to, highlight at the beginning of each:
 Why are we sending you this letter? To ask you to update the information we hold about 
you and your business. Do I need to do anything? Yes, so we dont begin the process of 
closing your account(s), please give us the information by 10th September 2019.
Its fair to say these letters make clear some action is needed by the recipient and it explains 
what the consequences of not dealing with this would be. The crux of Ms Bs complaint is 
that the letters are addressed to her firm and no reference in these letters are made of the 
trustees, the client or account details. While I understand the point Ms B makes here, its 
also fair to say that over a considerable number of years letters and bank statements from 
HSBC have been sent with the firms name and address on them. So, its reasonable to say 
the staff at the firm would have seen in the past, letters addressed in this way, and from what 
I understand while other correspondence received from HSBC concerning her clients affairs 
did have those details included, that was in the body of the letters and not the addressee 
details. The significant difference here is the letters, regarding the safeguarding review, sent 
between June and September 2019, didnt distinguish the partner or client in the body of 
those letters and I can understand that would have created extra work within the firm to 
identify whom the client and/or partner these letters related to. 
What is important here is, Ms B has told this service that one of the safeguarding review 
letters was delivered to the firm, so its reasonable to say that in all likelihood the other 
letters regarding the safeguarding review were also delivered to the firms name and address, as held on HSBCs records. Ms B has made the point because there was no clear 
reference on the letters it would not have been possible for HSBC to have identified the 
client or named partner on the bank account, even if they had attempted to call them. 
Its not possible to know with any certainty what happened when the safeguarding review 
letters arrived at Ms Bs business address, but its reasonable to say, in all likelihood, the 
staff at the practice were unable to immediately identify whom the partner or client was, 
when they opened the letters. While I can understand it would have needed more 
investigation to establish whom these letters were intended for, its reasonable to expect, 
given the content of the four letters for someone to have contacted HSBC to establish which 
client this related to. Afterall, the letters did provide a direct telephone number for this, so I 
cant say the opportunity to make a call to HSBC to establish more information, wasnt 
available - the letters ask:
Please can you contact us on ( phone number) as soon as possible (lines are open from 
9am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday).
While Ms B doesnt think HSBC would have been able to have identified the customer from 
the reference and address, I am satisfied on balance they would have. I say this as HSBC 
have advised this service when these letters are issued, a copy is automatically scanned on 
to the customers file and when telephoned the information and details could then be 
accessed.
On questioning HSBC, this service has established their process for all centrally generated 
letters, regarding safeguarding reviews - these are sent to the business address held on file 
and this is what happened here. Unfortunately, while I understand Ms B wants these letters 
to be individually annotated, I cant tell HSBC how their processes must work or that they 
must alter their centrally generated letters to accommodate individual needs, if their systems 
dont allow for this. I do see  this would have caused some additional work for Ms Bs firm to 
establish whom the letters referred to, either internally or by telephoning HSBC. But, on 
balance, because no attempt was made to telephone HSBC, I cant support Ms Bs view 
they wouldnt have been able to identify the bank account from the reference quoted in the 
letters, as HSBC werent given the opportunity to show they could.  
While Ms B may not agree, the fact the bank account was active wouldnt be a sufficient 
reason alone, to maintain a bank account without an up to date safeguarding review being 
completed, as HSBC need to comply with their regulatory requirements. Ms B has also 
complained it has taken a number of months to re-open the bank account, but from the 
information provided by HSBC this was due to the fact they only agreed to reopen the 
account as a gesture of goodwill, following a second complaint in March 2020, and while Ms 
B may not agree, once the bank account was closed HSBC had no obligation to reopen it. 
That said, given the circumstances here I am pleased to see HSBC took a pragmatic 
approach to allow this. 
Ms B has also mentioned the bank account statements are still showing the wrong 
information. HSBC have provided this service with screen shots showing an amended 
account title in August 2020 and what appears to be an amended address mailing name in 
August 2021. I would recommend, if Ms B still feels the addressee details for future 
correspondence needs to be changed to reflect her requirements, that she contacts HSBC to 
see if they can accommodate her wishes. 
It follows, I cant say, on balance, HSBC havent taken reasonable steps before taking the 
decision to close Ms Bs clients bank account.So, while Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC 
here.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman