DRN-3214534
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that the new fixed rate was delayed on their mortgage with
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D had an interest-only mortgage with Nationwide, with a fixed rate of 1.59%.
The mortgage had a remaining term of one year eight months, and the fixed rate was due to
expire on 28 February 2021. They wanted to change to a capital repayment mortgage  with
a term of around 13 years - and opt also for a new fixed rate deal. They called Nationwide on
3 February 2021 to arrange this. The new mortgage was agreed and started on 1 March
2021  on the standard mortgage rate of 3.59%. The new two-year fixed rate of 1.49% didnt
start until 1 April 2021.
Mr D and Mrs D complained that theyd wanted to start on the new fixed rate from 1 March
2021  from when the new mortgage was started. This had been explained to Nationwides
mortgage adviser on the call on 3 February 2021  and shed indicated it would be possible.
When Mr D and Mrs D tried to go online on 1 March 2021 to opt for a new fixed rate, they
couldnt. They couldnt get the fixed rate until 1 April 2021. Therefore, they paid interest on
their mortgage at the higher standard mortgage rate for a month.
Nationwide said they provided advice to change Mr D and Mrs Ds old mortgage from its
remaining term of one year eight months  because they couldnt agree a fixed rate deal for
longer than the term of the mortgage. The new repayment mortgage started on 1 March
2021  with its new term  and as of that date they could apply for a new fixed rate deal to
start on 1 April 2021. So  this meant they had to pay standard mortgage rate for the month
of March 2021. Theyd followed their correct processes. Theyd listened to the call which
took place on 3 February 2021 and considered theyd made Mr D and Mrs D aware they
couldnt apply for a new fixed rate until 1 March 2021  and so they didnt uphold their
complaint.
They said that due to an internal error, they couldnt process Mr D and Mrs Ds online
application for a fixed rate on 1 March 2021  and for this they apologised and paid 
compensation of £150.
Mr D and Mrs D brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide acted fairly. 
Hed listened to the call and thought that Nationwides mortgage adviser explained that 
theyd need to process the changes to the mortgage term first, and then once that was 
completed it would be possible to submit a new application for a new fixed interest rate. The 
advisor said that the new mortgage would be on the standard mortgage rate until a new fixed 
rate was applied for. He noted that Nationwide had paid compensation of £150 for the IT 
problem that meant that Mr D and Mrs D couldnt apply for a fixed rate online on 1 March 
2021.
Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. To me, it does appear that Mr D and Mrs D did 
want and expect the new fixed rate deal to be put in place when their replacement 
mortgage started on 1 March 2021. And  I dont think that Nationwides mortgage advisor 
said anything to say that wouldnt be the case. And  given that Mr D and Mrs D were 
already on a two-year fixed rate of 1.59% - it wouldve been logical for them to take a new 
fixed rate deal.
I can see that Nationwide had to firstly complete two advised calls with Mr D and Mrs D to 
change the mortgage term  from interest-only with a term of under two years to a 
repayment mortgage with term of around 13 years. Nationwide no longer offered interest- 
only mortgages and Mr D and Mrs D wanted to change to a repayment mortgage. Ive 
listened to both calls which took place on 3 February 2021. My interpretation of what was 
said differs to that of our investigator and Nationwide.
On the first call, the mortgage advisor goes through the process and affordability checks to 
change the current mortgage from interest - only to capital repayment. I wont detail those 
checks as theyre not relevant to this complaint. Ive looked at those aspects of the 
discussion which are relevant to the possibility of a new fixed rate deal. The advisor says 
she couldnt switch to a fixed rate immediately as Nationwide needed to process the 
application for a change to a repayment mortgage first and once thats completed, we can 
submit (for) a new interest rate. Its now the beginning of February so likely well get it done 
for March anyway. While it may have been that she was saying that the mortgage could 
be in place for 1 March 2021, I can see that Mr D and Mrs D interpreted her comment that 
the new fixed interest rate could also be in place for 1 March. There was then a discussion 
about the effect that a new fixed rate would have on the monthly repayments  which 
probably again led Mr D and Mrs D to believe it would be effective on 1 March 2021.
Mr D then said, when we get to 28 February, I dont want it to drift into standard mortgage 
rate for a month, its not a fortune, but things will be adjusted daily there?. The mortgage 
adviser then said yeah, thats it. And she then said again that everything should be 
completed by 1 March. And once its all confirmed then youll be able to change to the 
new rate  which you can do yourself online. I think this meant that a fixed rate could be 
put in place on 1 March 2021.
The second call on the same day was with Mr D and Mrs D together  to accept the terms 
of Nationwides mortgage illustration and to deal with the need to get an accountants 
certificate of income. But the mortgage advisor also said when everythings gone through 
you can potentially go onto a new (rate) which will bring the payments down and later said 
as long as everything matches up (referring to the accountants certificate) there 
shouldnt be any issues doing what you want to do in time for March and Ill get things 
moved over for MarchIll keep you updated on how to switch to a new rate as well.
So  taken in the round, I think its clear that Mr D and Mrs D wanted to switch to a fixed 
rate with effect from 1 March 2021, and they werent told this wouldnt be possible. In 
particular, the mortgage advisor said that the fixed rate could be arranged online - 
suggesting that this was an easy process, and not needing another application. So  thats 
why Mr D and Mrs D went online on 1 March 2021 to try to set up the fixed rate. And  
when Mr D and Mrs D put it to her that they didnt want to pay standard mortgage rate for a 
month, she didnt say they might have to. And when they asked if there would be a daily 
adjustment of interest  if the new mortgage was slightly delayed  she didnt then say (as 
she could have) that a new fixed rate couldnt be put in place until 1 April 2021. Nationwide 
told us that their processes were that new fixed rates could only be put in place on the 1st 
of every month  so this meant 1st April 2021. But - the mortgage advisor shouldve been 
aware of this and said that to Mr D and Mrs D, but she didnt.I accept that this is a balanced decision and is based on my interpretation of the call on 3 
February 2021. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Nationwide acted 
fairly and reasonably. They shouldve been clearer on the calls  that a new fixed rate 
couldnt be started until 1st April 2021. And so, for this  I think Nationwide should pay
compensation for distress and inconvenience of £150. This is in addition to the £150 
already paid.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Nationwide accepted my findings. Mr D and Mrs D commented and said:
The first compensation of £150 already paid by Nationwide was for a separate issue 
 the IT problem.
Because of what happened, they paid additional interest of £136.92 in March 2021  
because they couldnt switch to a fixed rate on 1 March as they wished to. And so  
the proposed compensation of £150 is effectively only £13.08 for the distress and 
inconvenience they suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points made by Mr D and Mrs D. I accept that the previous payment of 
£150 was for a separate issue. We put that payment in the provisional decision to make it 
clear that the new payment is in addition to that.
On Mr D and Mrs Ds point about the difference in interest. My argument in the provisional 
decision was that Nationwide could never have put a fixed rate in place by 1 March 2021  
their processes were that it could only be done by 1 April 2021. They didnt make a clear 
error. And so  its not fair to ask Nationwide to pay the difference in interest for the month of 
March 2021. And so  I didnt propose an award of interest. But where Nationwide shouldve 
done better was to clearly tell Mr D and Mrs D that the date of 1 March 2021 couldnt be 
achieved. And for this, I proposed an award of compensation of £150.
Putting things right
Ive considered Mr D and Mrs Ds comments, but I still consider that the provisional decision is the right one here. And so  this final decision confirms the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society must:
Pay compensation of £150 for inconvenience  in addition to the £150 already paid 
for the separate IT issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman