DRN-3332311
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (BHIIL) incorrectly 
recorded a driving incident on a shared insurance database. He said that is unfairly causing 
his motor insurance premiums to rise.
 
BHIILs motor policy is branded in the name of another company, an insurance intermediary 
(broker) which also administers the policy on BHIILs behalf. So, although all of Mr As 
correspondence has been with the intermediary, as it administers the policy on BHIILs 
behalf and has its authority to respond to complaints for it, Ill only refer to BHIIL in this 
decision. 
What happened
Mr A was insured with BHIIL in 2020. He was involved in a minor accident with another 
driver. Neither he nor the other driver intended to claim on their policies. But, as his policy 
required him to do, Mr A told BHIIL about the accident but said he was doing so for its 
notification purposes only. BHIIL then contacted Mr A about arranging repairs and supplying 
a courtesy car. Mr A told BHIIL again that he didnt want to make a claim.
In 2021 Mr A took out a new policy with a different insurer. After hed done so the new 
insurer contacted him and told him it had learned, from a shared insurance database, about 
driving incidents hed been involved in. And, as a result, it said it would charge him an 
additional premium. One of those incidents was the accident Mr A had told BHIIL he didn't 
wish to claim for in 2020. The new insurer said that if BHIIL removed the record of the 2020 
incident from the shared database it wouldnt charge him the additional premium.
Mr A contacted BHIIL. It eventually confirmed that it had recorded the incident as notification 
only on the shared database. It also confirmed the incident hadn't affected Mr As no claims 
discount. BHIIL told Mr A it had correctly recorded the incident and it didnt intend to remove 
the record.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
She didnt think BHIIL had dealt with Mr A fairly, as it had initially dealt with the incident as a 
claim. So she said it should pay Mr A £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience 
because of that. But she said BHIIL had correctly recorded the incident on the shared 
database as notification only. 
BHIIL accepted the investigators assessment of the complaint and paid Mr A £150 
compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy so his complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct BHIIL to take any further action.
Neither Mr A nor the other driver made a claim for the 2020 accident. And Mr A told BHIIL 
about the incident for its information purposes alone. As a result, he thinks BHIIL was wrong 
to make any record of that accident on the shared database. And because it did so his new 
insurer has charged him an additional premium. Mr A doesnt think that was fair. So I've 
thought carefully about whether or not BHIIL did anything wrong and if it needs to do 
anything else to put things right. 
It might help if I explain that most motor insurers in the UK use a shared industry database 
for recording driving claims and incidents. The insurers which use that database are under 
an obligation to record all driving incident they become aware of, no matter how minor, that 
could lead to a claim. Thats the case even if no claim is made. And, where that happens, 
insurers record the incident on the database as notification only.
In this case it's not in dispute that an accident happened. Similarly, it's not disputed that 
neither party made a claim. But an incident did happen and BHIIL was aware of it. So it had 
a duty to record it on the shared database. 
Initially, BHIIL made a mistake and started the ball rolling to deal with the incident as a claim. 
But it's since confirmed that its put things right and shown Mr A that the incident is correctly 
recorded on the shared database as notification only. Thats what it was supposed to have 
done from the outset. 
Mr A said he told BHIIL that he was informing it of the incident for its information alone. So 
he doesn't think it should have added it to the database. But, regardless of what he said to 
BHIIL, once it became aware of the incident BHIIL was required to record it on the database, 
even if Mr A didn't want it to. So I dont think BHIIL did anything wrong in refusing to remove 
the notification only record from the shared insurance database as it had correctly added it. 
Further, in response to our investigator's assessment of the complaint, BHIIL has 
acknowledged its initial mistake when dealing with the incident and paid Mr A £150 
compensation to address the impact of that. I think that's a reasonable response in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
As BHIIL has already paid reasonable compensation for the impact of its initial error in 
dealing with the incident, I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman