DRN-3949688
The complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc is holding him liable for a debt on a credit card 
that he never applied for, nor benefitted from.
What happened
In April 2021, a successful application was made through Capital One for a credit card in 
Mr As name.
In November 2021, Mr A contacted Capital One and reported that hed not applied for the 
credit card, nor had he carried out any of the transactions on it.
Capital One carried out an investigation, but found that Mr A was liable for the credit card 
and the transactions carried out on it.
Mr A remained unhappy with Capital One holding him liable for the debt, so his brought his 
complaint to our service for an independent review.
Mr A says that prior to credit card application, a neighbour offered to obtain a bounce back 
loan for him through a connection they had in the bank for a 20% fee if the loan was 
obtained successfully. Mr A agreed to this and provided all the relevant personal information 
and identity documents.
After the loan was paid, Mr As neighbour then put him in touch with a relation of theirs to 
help him set up a business. Again, Mr A provided all the relevant personal information and 
identity documents for this to be set up.
Mr A says that after this took place, he began to receive credit cards, debit cards and 
documentation through the post in relation to numerous financial products: one being the 
credit card subject to this dispute. He says that once he received these, he was threatened 
by the third-party to hand over the cards and their associated PINs.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded Capital One 
was fair in holding Mr A liable for the credit card and associated debt. He said that Capital 
One had demonstrated that the account was set up using Mr As genuine details, including 
address. And as the card and PIN were sent to this address, and the transactions on the 
account didnt follow known patterns of fraud, he felt it was more likely than not that Mr A 
was aware of the credit card and authorised the transactions in dispute.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators assessment, so the matter has now been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to comment on the fact that Mr As character is somewhat 
challenged by the fact that hes obtained credit in questionable circumstances. 
While I suspect there is an element of naivety on Mr As part, I also suspect that he wasnt 
entirely honest in allowing the application for the bounce back loan that led to his personal 
information being provided to a third-party. Ive kept that in mind when considering Mr As 
version of events.
Moving on to the Capital One account. Mr As genuine personal information was used to 
make application for the Capital One credit card, and this is no surprise considering hed 
passed his personal information over to a third-party. But having looked at the application 
and associated notes on the account, I can see that the telephone number, email and home 
address provided on the application were genuinely Mr As. 
This means that Mr A was likely aware at the application stage that the credit card was being 
applied for as he would have received email and postal correspondence relating to it as part 
of that process. Yet, Ive found no evidence that Mr A contacted Capital One and disputed 
the application prior to it being approved.
This also means that Mr A most likely received the card and PIN associated with the account 
to his home address, as this was where he was living at the time of the application.
Overall, Im persuaded Mr A was aware an application had been made for a credit card in his 
name.
Mr A has told our service that he did receive a number of credit cards, debit cards and PINs 
relating to various financial products in the post at his home address. One of these was this 
Capital One credit card. And this is supported by the messages hes sent our service 
between him and third parties who he alleges defrauded him. 
In the messages, Mr A appears to send pictures of various credit and debit cards, demands 
for repayment and messages he received on his phone from the banks. However, these 
messages provide no indication Mr A wasnt expecting them. He merely sends them to the 
third-party and lets them know theyve arrived.
Mr A says that the cards and PINs he received were handed over to the third-party against 
his will. He says he and his family were threatened and intimidated to do so. But Ive seen no 
evidence to support this as Mr A says they were carried out verbally over the telephone.
The messages between Mr A and third party show civil conversation between both parties 
with no evidence of threat. Mr A doesnt question in the message why he was receiving the 
cards, if the third-party knew anything about them or question the demands for repayment in 
regard to the transactions carried out. This persuades me that its more likely than not that 
the cards and repayment demand notifications didnt come as a surprise to Mr A.
Furthermore, technical data from Capital One shows that the first device registered on 
mobile banking was one with Mr As own telephone number. 
At no time in the process of receiving these cards, correspondences or demands for 
repayment did Mr A report the matter to either the Police or Capital One. He only seems to 
have done this when the third-party threatened him that theyd called the Police regarding 
his conduct.
I do find it more likely than not that the card was at some point handed over to a third-party 
and transactions were carried out by that individual. This is supported by the mobile banking 
telephone number being changed part way through the accounts lifespan. And Capital One has also provided a telephone call in which the caller, purporting to be Mr A but clearly isnt, 
attempts to make repayment on the account. But even if the account had been used by a 
third-party, its likely from the evidence available that Mr A willingly handed the card and 
security credentials over to them; ultimately, he authorised the use of the account. 
So, for all the above reasons, I find it more likely than not that Mr A gave his authority for a 
third-party to use the account and therefore, Capital One was within its authority to hold Mr A 
liable for any payment made with that authority.
My final decision
For all the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman