DRN-1633571
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd refused to refund unauthorised transactions from 
his account.
What happened
Mr R wanted to transfer money to his parents for a meal. When he logged into his Monzo 
mobile banking app, he saw two bank transfers for £350 and £400, which he didnt 
recognise. The transfers were made to the same beneficiary but to different bank accounts.
He contacted Monzo and explained that he hadnt made the transactions and didnt know the 
beneficiary.  He complained of fraud on his account.
Mr R told Monzo that he always kept his phone with him, especially when he was out and it 
was always in his pocket or at home. And he said he kept his PIN secret and hadnt 
disclosed it to anyone else. He confirmed that hed never accessed the mobile banking app 
from another device  only from his phone. He said no one had access to his email account.
Mr R explained that he was at work when the transactions were made and his workplace 
had a no mobile phones whilst working policy.
Mr R expected that Monzo would refund the payments but it didn't because:
the transactions were made via his Monzo mobile banking app. To access the app, a 
person needed his PIN and mobile phone.
Mr R said no one had his phone or knew his PIN. And he didnt keep a written note of 
his PIN.
Monzos audit log for the account shows that Mr R was checking his account 
throughout the day. 
The log shows that no other device was used to access his account.
The transactions were made at 10:47am and 11:02 am but he didnt report them until 
7.49pm.
Monzo concluded it wasn't possible for someone else to make the transfers.
Mr R wasnt happy with the banks decision, so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold it. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude that a third party had made the transactions. He thought it was more 
likely that Mr R had authorised them.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He said hed found out the beneficiary was a 
scammer. He cannot understand why Monzo is refusing to refund payments to a scammer.
He has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
In short, Monzo is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr R says he didnt make the transactions and is seeking a refund the money. So my 
primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think he authorised the 
payments. 
Having reviewed Monzos records, Im satisfied that the transactions were made via Mr Rs 
mobile banking app. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Monzo to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that someone else made the transactions.
Despite what Mr R has said, Im not persuaded that a third party made the transactions. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following evidence:
Mr R said he had his phone with him at all times.
He was adamant that no one else knew the PIN to his mobile banking app, which 
means he was the only person who could access his account.
The banks audit report shows he was accessing his account all day and he would 
have seen the transactions, but he didnt report them until the evening.
Based on this evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr R authorised the transactions. 
Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable for Monzo to refuse a refund of the disputed 
transactions on the basis he authorised them. 
Ive noted the comments by Mr Rs father that there is now industry protection for authorised 
push payments (APP).
An APP scam occurs where a consumer has been tricked into carrying out a payment 
themselves to a fraudster; or they are aware money is leaving their account even if they 
dont make the transaction themselves.
Monzo said it gave Mr R the opportunity to say whether hed been contacted by anyone prior 
to the transactions or whether he knew the beneficiary or had bought goods or services from 
them but had not received them.  He maintained he knew nothing about the transactions or 
the beneficiary, he hadn't bought any goods or services and that he didnt know it was a 
scam until the police told him. He gave the same account to this service. Based on these 
facts, Im afraid Mr Rs complaint wouldnt be treated as an APP scam.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr R but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman