DRN-3078102
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount he has to pay to settle his agreement through voluntary 
termination, for a car that was supplied through a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services (VWFS). 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The car was registered in November 2019, which means it was about one month old 
and had travelled around 1000 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£19,882.90 which was payable over 48 months.
Mr M says that soon after acquiring the car, in April 2020 he fell into financial difficulties due 
to the impact of COVID-19. Mr M explained that his partner had been furloughed and so he 
could no longer afford to maintain the monthly repayments towards his agreement with 
VWFS. Mr M says he decided to cancel the monthly direct debit on his agreement and 
contacted VWFS to arrange to have the car taken back.
Mr M said that during April to June 2020, he experienced a delay in receiving a response 
from VWFS. Mr M says he sent around three emails and two letters to VWFS, requesting 
that he return the car and cancel the agreement. VWFS responded with the option to 
voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. After initially providing an incorrect settlement 
amount to Mr M, in June 2020 VWFS told Mr M that he would have to pay £9,688.48 plus 
£633.22 arrears, in order to VT the agreement. VWFS confirmed this in their summary to us.
VWFS says that Mr M confirmed on 18 June 2020 that he wanted to VT his car and that it 
was processed the same day. They also confirmed that Mr Ms car had been collected on 17 
August 2020 and had subsequently been sold on by them.
Mr M says that there was a delay between the VT being processed and the collection of his 
car. He says that he wanted VWFS to pay him for storing the car as it was inconvenient for 
him to do so. Mr M also said he felt the costs for VT were excessive given the circumstances 
of his financial situation, and that this was all out of his control due to COVID-19. Mr M has 
said that due to his financial situation hes agreed a monthly repayment plan with VWFS 
which is currently for £40 per month.
In August 2020 Mr M complained to VWFS. In October 2020 VWFS provided their final 
response to Mr Ms complaint. VWFS said theyd acted fairly in allowing Mr M to VT his 
agreement but agreed that there had been some delays to the collection of the car. 
Unhappy with VWFS final response, Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into his concerns and upheld his complaint. They felt that VWFS should 
have offered Mr M the option to voluntarily surrender (VS) his car, which they felt would have 
been a more cost-effective way for Mr M to settle his agreement, given his financial 
difficulties. So, our investigator recommended that VWFS deduct the sale price from the 
outstanding balance to calculate what Mr M should have remaining on his agreement. 
VWFS disagreed with our investigators view, they said that they only offer VS in certain 
circumstances where the agreement has been subject to what they call hostile termination. 
They said that Mr M hadnt met those requirements and so felt that theyd acted fairly in the 
circumstances. VWFS has asked that the complaint is referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
I recognise that COVID-19 presented consumers and businesses with significant and 
unprecedented challenges. And these challenges are likely to have been intensified by the 
national government enforced lockdown and the rules and guidance that was put in place at 
the time. In consideration of this Ive thought about whether VWFS acted reasonably when 
Mr M informed them of his financial difficulties and of his wish to end the agreement. 
VWFS provided us with a letter dated 28 April 2020 that they received from Mr M informing 
them of his financial difficulties, that he wasnt able to sustain the monthly repayments 
anymore and that from the options available on their online questionnaire hed opted for the 
recovery of the car. 
Ive seen further correspondence from Mr M to VWFS in June 2020, chasing a response to 
his earlier request and advising that a payment holiday wasnt an option he wanted to take. 
In their response to us VWFS acknowledged they received Mr Ms correspondence and said 
they provided him with details of how-to VT when it became apparent that that was what he 
had opted for. In the circumstances and considering the unprecedented impacts that COVID-
19 would have had on the services being provided by VWFS, I think the time they took to 
process the VT and to collect the car was reasonable.  I can see in their correspondence 
that VWFS pointed out their response times had been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook, says that a business must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5 provides some 
examples which include, suspending, reducing or waiving interest or charges, allowing 
payment deferrals or accepting token payments.
The FCA had also released specific guidance for businesses to support consumers who 
were facing a financial impact because of the exceptional circumstance arising from COVID-
19, so I think it was right and fair that VWFS offered a payment deferral option, but Mr M 
wanted to hand the car back.
Mr M said the balance he had to repay following the VT of his agreement was unreasonably 
high, considering his financial difficulties were down to COVID-19. From the options provided 
to him Mr M chose to VT his agreement. However, in the circumstances, I think VWFS 
should have given Mr M the option to VS. Voluntary Surrender provides another way to end an agreement early. This is where the 
goods are returned for the business to sell on. The net proceeds are then used to reduce the 
outstanding balance under the agreement. However, unlike VT its not part of the law, and 
not necessarily provided under the T&Cs of the agreement. Having said that, its not 
uncommon for a business to offer it to a consumer as a potential option. And in this case, 
particularly as things went wrong soon after Mr M acquired the car, I think it wouldve been a 
fair option for VWFS to have offered to Mr M.
VWFS confirmed to us that after theyd collected the car from Mr M, they sold it in 
September 2020 for £13,750. Considering Mr M made some payments at the start of his 
agreement, had he been given the option to VS he would have had considerably less to pay 
than what he has through VT. I think had Mr M been given the option of VS I think its likely 
he would have opted for it given the potential financial benefits. From the evidence provided 
Im persuaded VS would have been in the interests of Mr M.
VWFS said to us that VS wasnt an option on Mr Ms agreement, and so wouldnt have been 
available to him. In the circumstances, I dont think VWFS had treated Mr M fairly here. 
When Mr M enquired about his options to end the agreement, it would have been fairer had 
VWFS included VS as an option.
Putting things right
As Ive found that VWFS hadnt treated Mr M fairly by not giving him the option to VS his 
agreement, I think VWFS needs to put things right for him. 
Ill be instructing VWFS to deduct the sale price of the car from the balance of the agreement 
as it was from June 2020, prior to when the VT had been applied. Mr M should repay the 
outstanding balance through the support of an affordable monthly repayment plan arranged 
by VWFS. VWFS should deduct what Mr M has already paid from June 2020 to date.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Seat Financial Services to:
Reduce the debt to the amount it would have be if Mr M had VSd the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman