DRN-2069233
The complaint
Mrs C complains about One Insurance Limiteds (One) handling of a claim she made under 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Cs car was hit by an unknown third party whilst it was parked. She let One know about 
the damage. A few days later, One arranged for the car to be recovered to a garage, who 
subsequently let Mrs C know that her car was a write off. Mrs C was unhappy with the time 
taken to recover the car, and with hearing the outcome of the damage directly from the 
garage, rather than her insurer.
Over the next few weeks, Mrs C was in frequent contact with One trying to resolve her claim. 
She was unhappy with the valuation offered, which One went on to increase twice. Mrs C 
was also unhappy shed been asked to provide a copy of the V5 and considered the 
information shed been provided should be sufficient to show she owned the car. One said 
this was its standard procedure, and it required the V5 to settle the claim.
There were then further issues with duplicated policy payments being taken from Mrs Cs 
account, and she felt One hadnt fully grasped how difficult being without a car was. Mrs C 
said she had a baby and needed to attend various appointments and trying to do so for such 
a long time without a car was causing her significant worry. 
Shortly after Mrs C received her V5, One made a payment for the value of the car. It later 
replied to Mrs Cs complaint and again increased the valuation of the car by a further 
£440.68. It acknowledged its handling of her claim wasnt good enough. It said it should 
have been much clearer about the process and expected timeframe around each step of the 
claim. One said its handling of her complaint about the claim fell below the standard Mrs C 
ought to have expected. It offered £150 in recognition of the worry and upset caused.
Unsure whether to accept the offer or not, Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator considered what happened and thought a payment of £250 was a fairer 
reflection of what had happened. Mrs C accepted this conclusion, but One didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that throughout the claim, Mrs C has set out in a number of emails and 
wider correspondence with One how challenging she was finding this matter, and its clear 
how the lack of communication impacted her throughout.  
Like our investigator, I agree One could have done more to explain timeframes and the 
expected steps to Mrs C. This would have helped her understand the process and likely 
timeframes, but also would have helped her make alternative arrangements to attend what 
shes told us to be essential appointments to her wellbeing. 
Ive carefully considered the content of the emails Mrs C sent to One. She explained how not 
having the car had a significant impact on her mental wellbeing and how the lack of 
information made her anxious. Mrs C made a complaint, but the lack of acknowledgement or 
response to the complaint increased her anxiety about this matter even further. I agree with 
Ones conclusion their handling of both the claim and complaint fell short here, and impacted 
Mrs C. Had One provided clearer explanation of the process and likely timeframes to Mrs C, 
I think this matter would have impacted her significantly less than it did. 
Ill turn now to the handling of the claim. I consider the request for the V5 request to be fairly 
standard in response to a claim of this nature. While I understand this did cause some delay 
to the settlement, I havent seen anything unusual in this part of the handling of the claim. 
However, I understand why Mrs C was uncertain to suddenly hear from the garage that her 
car was to be written off. Mrs C was expecting to hear from her insurer and hadnt been told 
she should expect otherwise. While I appreciate Ones view the garage had been instructed 
by it, I think this is another example where the lack of explanation of the process from One 
caused Mrs C distress. 
I can understand Mrs Cs concerns about the duplicated payments for the monthly 
premiums, which continued to be taken after she was told the claim would be settled. This 
led to another unnecessary round of communication which caused her additional stress. 
The valuation for the car was increased twice from the first offer. I would have expected 
there to be some notes in Ones complaint file to support its rationale for the first valuation, 
but these werent provided. I can see it was frustrating and confusing for Mrs C to be offered 
three different valuations. 
However, I note the increased valuation offered in the final response letter contained an 
explanation as to how this amount had been calculated and was in line with the checks 
carried out by this service. However, I see no reason why this amount wasnt offered to Mrs 
C in the first instance, and I think the lack of clarity around these valuations added to what 
was already a difficult time for Mrs C.
Putting things right
To put things right, One should pay Mrs C £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
experienced by its handling of her claim. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about One Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman