DRN-4364583
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to refund 
transactions they didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs H was mainly involved with this complaint, so Ill refer to her for ease of reading.
What Mrs H says
Mrs H said that she first noticed unusual activity on her account whilst out shopping. After 
checking her account, she noticed numerous payments had been made to various crypto 
currency merchants.
Mrs H called Barclays about the payments and told them she knew nothing about them. She 
mentioned it may be to do with a scam linked to a different bank. After going through the 
transactions (which were all made with her debit card), Barclays replaced her card and 
arranged for a temporary refund whilst they looked into the situation.
Later, Barclays told Mrs H they would be taking the refund back and they held her 
responsible for the payments. Mrs H complained and Barclays continued to investigate the 
matter. They didnt change their position and maintained that Mrs H was responsible for the 
payments.
Mr A and Mrs H then brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review. An investigator was assigned to look into what had happened and 
asked both parties for information about the circumstances.
Mrs H said shed only noticed the payments leaving her account whilst out shopping and 
believed that a scam shed been caught up in was also responsible for these payments 
leaving her account. Mrs H said that shed previously downloaded software that gave control 
of her devices to the scammer. Mrs H confirmed that she hadnt given her card or its details 
to anyone else to use. There were no other persons who could have obtained it and she 
hadnt lost it.
Barclays responded with information concerning the payments and how they were made, 
they also sent phone calls theyd had with Mrs H, including one that occurred during the 
period when the disputed transactions were taking place. They commented that the call (Mrs 
H was enquiring about additional credit/loan) didnt mention anything about unusual 
payments leaving her account despite regularly logging on to her banking app.
Barclays evidence in summary was:
There was no evidence of any third party activity.
The disputed transactions took place over an extended period of time.
Mrs Hs device was used to confirm some of the payments using additional security 
steps.
Funds were paid into the account prior to the disputed transactions.
There were multiple log ins to the mobile banking app during this period  but no 
mention to Barclays at the time.
No further attempts to use the debit card after it was cancelled.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator thought it was likely that Mrs H was 
responsible for the payments herself and didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator 
couldnt find any explanation to how Mrs Hs card details were compromised, even if 
someone had remote access to her device. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for a further review of her complaint which has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
Mrs H provided copies of messages shed had with a scammer and screenshots of crypto 
accounts where some of the disputed transactions were sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has described being caught up in a crypto currency scam and believes that after 
allowing remote access to her phone, the scammers took funds from her account without her 
knowledge or permission. Essentially shes denied authorising these payments.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mrs H liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made 
them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs H authorised 
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card details for online payments 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Hs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs H. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs H responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
These payments were made using Mrs Hs debit card. Shes confirmed she never gave the 
details of it to anyone else. So, its difficult to see how those details were obtained, even if a 
scammer had access to her mobile phone. I would also note that no evidence had been 
provided regarding this remote access, so I cant say for sure if anyone had obtained access 
to her phone/device. Barclays themselves also couldnt find any evidence that a third party 
had obtained access.I noted that on several occasions prior to the disputed transactions leaving the account, 
funds were paid into it to enable these transactions to be made. The disputed transactions  
were made over about nine days and other undisputed activity also took place during this 
time. On the face of it, the payments were funded from other accounts. It seems unlikely to 
me that a scammer would be able to access several different accounts and transfer funds to 
then spend it on crypto currency using a debit card that no one else knows about. 
If it was possible that a scammer had access to the account(s), they could have taken the 
whole balance without going to the trouble of making debit card payments that also needed 
Mrs H to confirm using additional authentication steps. Barclays evidence is that some of the 
payments recorded Mrs Hs registered mobile device, from a known IP address accessing 
the phone to confirm some of the payments to the crypto merchants.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
Mrs H also provided details of a crypto account showing some of the payments she denied 
making. Her case here is that they werent made by her, so I cant see how she would have 
details of an account if it was set up by a scammer to steal money from here. It seems to me 
that she would only have access to it if she herself opened it. Ive also looked through the 
second complaint linked to the scam and couldnt see any payments to this particular crypto 
merchant. So, my conclusion would be that Mrs H had control of it which would be unlikely if 
it belonged to a scammer.
Mrs H also called Barclays to discuss a loan/credit card during the nine-day period of 
disputed transactions and no mention was made of unusual payments from the account. Mrs 
H was calling because she said she was in debt, so I would have thought, based on her 
regular use of her mobile banking app, that she would have been aware of the money being 
transferred into her account and the raft of payments leaving it.
Overall here, my objective assessment of the evidence is that I think its more likely than not 
that Mrs H was responsible for making these payments and it was reasonable for Barclays to 
hold her liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman