DRN-3858188
The complaint
Miss M complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Miss M entered into a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance on 7 February 2022 
to acquire a used car. On 9 February she says she noticed issues with the car and the car 
was booked in with the dealership on 15 February. Miss M says that at this time she had 
raised issues with the tyres being bald, no valid MOT, worn rear brakes, speakers being 
blown, a dent in the roof and a loud rattling sound coming from the steering. The tyres were 
replaced, and an MOT took place. Miss M says she then contacted the dealership on 18 
February to say there were still issues. Miss M then took the car for an inspection and further 
issues were identified. 
Miss M says that the dealership initially said the issues would be fixed but then went back on 
this and limited the issues it would look to repair. She says the dealership offered to sell the 
car on her behalf but that this would result in her losing money. Miss M said given the issues 
with the car arose within the first 30 days and the dealership had a chance to fix these on 
15 February but the problems remain, she should now be allowed to reject the car
Blue Motor Finance issued a final response letter in May 2022. It said that Miss M raised her 
complaint outside the first 30 days of the agreement, so she didnt have the right to reject the 
vehicle. Instead, it said if it was liable for the issues raised it would have a first right of repair.  
It said it would need to inspect the reason for the speaker failure, the issue with boot and the 
reason for the rattling noise to establish if it was liable. It didnt accept it was liable for the 
dent on the roof as the vehicle was sold as seen and said the tyres werent faulty.
Miss M referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. They didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was 
supplied, and thought it was sold with several defects. They were satisfied that the car had 
been presented to the dealership who had the opportunity to carry out repairs, but the car 
was still presenting issues. Because of this they thought it fair that Miss M be allowed to 
reject the car and have a portion of her repayments refunded to reflect the impaired use she 
had experienced. 
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree with our investigators view. It said the dealership had 
advised Miss M didnt make contact to arrange an inspection and that the car was sold 
without faults. The dealership said it offered a free one-year MOT for every customer if the 
car had less than six months valid MOT at point of sale and this was carried out on the 15 
February where no faults were identified and with no complaints from the customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement dated 7 February 2022. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the car needed to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account relevant factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car. In this case the car was around five years old and had been 
driven around 32,600 miles at the point of acquisition. 
As the car wasnt new at acquisition some wear and tear would be expected. However, 
noting the age, mileage and the amount paid for the car, I can understand why Miss M was 
upset by the number of issues she experienced.
Miss M has provided evidence that she reported several issues with the car to the 
dealership. She says that she initially raised the issues on calls with the dealership in 
February and has provided telephone bills to evidence these. She then communicated by 
phone messaging. On a message dated 21 March 2022, issues were raised about the dent 
in the roof, a fault with the oil light, the speakers being faulty, a rattling noise and noting that 
the tyres were bald when the car was supplied, and the replacements provided on 15 
February were the wrong size. Miss M has provided a copy of a report from another garage 
dated 19 February showing that after a wheel alignment the car was still pulling to the left 
and it was thought there might be an issue with the cars suspension. A further inspection 
report was undertaken on 21 April 2022 which reported rattling from the steering wheel, the 
boot opening by itself, the car veering to the left and the oil sensor light coming (although 
this was resolved at the time, Miss M says the issue has since returned).
Given the evidence provided about the problems with the car and the timing of the issues 
raised, I find it reasonable to accept that there were faults with the car that were present at 
the point of supply. Considering the number and type of issues raised I do not find that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
The outstanding issue is whether Miss M should be allowed to reject the car or whether the 
dealership should be allowed the opportunity to investigate and carry out any necessary 
repairs. The information provided in this case is at times incomplete and contradictory and 
so I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I consider 
most likely to have happened given the evidence provided and the wider circumstances.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a consumer has a 30 day right to reject a car thats of 
unsatisfactory quality. Blue Motor Finance say that Miss M raised her complaint after 30 
days and so the dealership should be allowed a chance to repair the issues. I have 
considered the timeline of events and note that Miss M has said she asked to return the car 
on 25 February, but the dealership didnt accept this. I do not have further evidence of this 
but as conversations were taking place in February I do not find it unreasonable to accept 
that Miss M may have asked about returning the car at that time. 
That said, even if Miss M didnt formally ask to reject her car within the first 30 days, I still 
find, in this case, this is the fairest outcome. I say this because the car was returned to the 
dealership on 15 February. I note the dealerships comments that the car was sold with an 
MOT but as this was less than six-months it offered a full MOT and that this took place 
without issues being raised. However, given the issue identified, Miss Ms testimony about 
the events and that Miss M took the car to another garage on 19 February I find it 
reasonable to accept that Miss M had identified issues with the car before its return on 15 
February and that these were raised with the dealership. While I accept further issues were 
then identified, I find that the dealership did have the opportunity to remedy the initial issues 
and carry out any required investigation when the car was returned in February. However, at 
this time, the tyres were changed and replaced with incorrect tyres and the MOT took place, 
but the other issues werent addressed. During March and April discussions continued with the dealership and Miss M has said that 
while the dealership initially said all issues would be fixed but then changed its mind. I can 
see the dealership didnt accept that the dent needed to be fixed as the car was sold as seen 
and it also didnt initially agree to inspect the issues with the speakers. Having considered 
the communication between the parties at the time I can understand why Miss M felt that the 
dealership wasnt offering a full inspection of the issues. 
On balance, while I note the comments the dealership has made about the car not being 
returned for inspection, in this case I find there was an opportunity for repair provided on 15 
February. Given the issues identified by Miss M, the response from the dealership and the 
ongoing discussions that took I can understand why Miss M lost faith in the dealership 
carrying out the required repairs. Taking this into account and noting the issues were 
identified within the first 30 days and that Miss M has said she asked to return the car at that 
time, I find the fairest outcome to this complaint is for Miss M to be allowed to reject the car.
Miss M had been able to drive the car but given the issues she has experienced she has 
said she hasnt felt safe. I can understand that the issues will have reduced her enjoyment of 
the car. Therefore, while I find she is responsible for the repayments made to date, I find that 
a 10% refund should be applied to these to reflect her impaired use. 
I also find that being supplied a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality has resulted in Miss M 
being caused distress and inconvenience as she has had to try to resolve issues with the 
dealership and Blue Motor Finance. Therefore, I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that she should be paid £150 because of this. 
Putting things right
As I do not find the car was of satisfactory quality, I find the fairest resolution in this case is 
for Miss M to be allowed to reject the car. Therefore, Blue Motor Finance should:
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to the customer;
3. refund the customers total deposit paid;
4. refund 10% of Miss Ms rental payments to reflect the concerns she has had while 
driving the car with inherent quality issues;
5. pay 8% simple yearly interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement 
on all refunded amounts*;
6. pay a further amount of £150 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods; and
7. remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the 
agreement. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to take off tax from this interest. Blue 
Motor Finance must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman