DRN-4290490
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) didnt settle 
their mobile phone insurance claim fairly.
For ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr H throughout this decision. 
What happened
On 6 September 2022, Mr H logged a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy as his 
iPhone 8 had water damage. Assurant accepted the claim, and Mr H received a replacement 
phone on 25 September 2022.
On 27 September 2022, Mr H emailed Assurant requesting help. He said the replacement 
phone was faulty as there was an issue with the microphone and the touchscreen appeared 
unresponsive in some places. Unfortunately, the email was sent to an incorrect address.    
Mr H has said he then struggled to contact Assurant until his bank gave him the correct 
details. Hes also said that after identifying the problem, he turned the phone off and stored it 
away securely.
On 17 October 2022, Mr H emailed Assurant again and repeated his concern that the phone 
was defective. In response, Assurant asked Mr H if the phone had any physical or liquid 
damage. Mr H said it didnt, so they arranged for the phone to be inspected under the terms 
of the warranty. Mr H has said he returned the phone to Assurant using the same packaging 
he received it in.
Assurant then said Mr H would need to make a new claim and pay a further policy excess as 
the back of the phone was cracked and damaged. Mr H strongly disputed this. He said it was 
unfair hed received a defective replacement phone and he was now being asked to pay a 
second excess due to damage he didnt cause. He said hed essentially been accused of 
lying and was very unhappy. So, he asked Assurant to send the damaged phone back to 
him.
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Assurant explained they hadnt done anything wrong as 
they received the phone in a damaged condition and the warranty doesnt provide cover in 
such circumstances. 
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint and upheld it. She said the 
claim should be settled as Mr H reported defects within two days of receiving the 
replacement phone, and there was no evidence he caused damage to the device.
Mr H also asked the investigator to consider the customer service he received from 
Assurant, but she didnt identify any errors or conclude Assurant did anything wrong in this 
respect. 
Mr H accepted the investigators opinion, but Assurant didnt. In summary they said: 
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to show there were faults with the replacement 
phone and it was thoroughly quality checked before it was sent to him. 
It took Mr H two months to return the phone, so the damage may have taken place 
during this time. 
The warranty provides no cover for damage regardless of whether it is linked to 
previous faults or defects.
If the damage had been caused by one of their staff, they would have accepted 
responsibility for it straight away and not blamed their customer.
Prior to reaching this decision, I asked Assurant to clarify if an engineer had completed an 
inspection upon receiving Mr Hs phone. In response, they said they didnt think this was 
necessary as the phone was damaged and no cover was available under the terms of the 
warranty. They also said it would have been impossible to determine the cause of the 
defects Mr H reported. However, they may have been able to complete repairs if the back of 
the phone hadnt been damaged.
Lastly, the case handler explained that packaging isnt routinely retained, but photographs 
would have been taken if broken glass had been found in Mr Hs phone packaging. So, she 
didnt think it was likely the damage happened during transit. 
I also asked Mr H to provide some information about the current condition of the phone. He 
said hed recently tested it and it worked normally despite the damage to the back of the 
phone and the microphone defect. He also said the touchscreen appeared to be fault free 
despite his initial concern about this.
So, Ive now reached a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, what I consider is more likely 
to have happened based on the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
As Ive detailed above, Mr H received a replacement phone and within two days attempted 
to report problems with it. I appreciate his email didnt reach Assurant, but Im satisfied it was 
sent. I also note that Mr H didnt report any damage to the back of the phone at this time. So, 
this means, one of the following scenarios is likely to have happened:
Mr H was sent a defective replacement phone and it took him two days to report the 
issue. The phone was later damaged either while in his care, in transit or with 
Assurant. 
Mr H received a satisfactory replacement phone, and the reported defects were 
caused as the phone was damaged within the first two days. Mr H therefore lied to 
Assurant when he reported his concerns via email and said the phone was defective 
on receipt.
Mr H received a satisfactory replacement phone, he didnt cause any damage to it 
during the first two days, and he was mistaken when he reported the microphone and 
touchscreen defects. His defect free phone was then later damaged.Having carefully considered each of the above options, I think the first is more likely to have 
taken place. Ive reached this conclusion as two days is a reasonable time frame to test a 
phone, notice there is a problem and report it. Mr Hs testimony and version of events have 
also been consistent throughout. The only exception being the improvement hes identified 
with the touchscreen issue. However, I see no reason to conclude this is anything other than 
an honest update. 
Assurant think its concerning Mr H used the wrong email address instead of calling to report 
the problem with the replacement phone, but I dont see what he could have reasonably 
gained by deliberately using the wrong details. I think the most likely explanation is he simply 
made a genuine mistake. I also note that Assurant have put a lot of weight on the time it took 
Mr H to return the phone, but as Mr H reported the problem within two days, I think this is the 
most relevant time frame. I also see no benefit in Mr H purposely delaying the return of the 
phone if he caused the damage.
I agree with Assurant that Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to show the phone was faulty  
when he received it, but I wouldnt reasonably expect him to do so. Mr H isnt a phone expert 
or an engineer, so I would only reasonably expect him to promptly report the problem. As 
detailed above, Im satisfied he attempted to do so here despite using the wrong email 
address. Im also aware, that Assurant completed a full quality check of the phone before it 
was dispatched, but I dont think this means there is no way the reported defects could have 
been missed. I also think it's unlikely Mr H would have contacted Assurant unless he 
genuinely thought there was a problem with the device.
Assurant decided against completing an inspection of the phone. So, I have no expert 
evidence which shows if the defects Mr H reported exist or how they were caused. I 
appreciate the difficulties associated with completing an inspection of this nature, but I dont 
think this reasonably justifies Assurants decision to make no attempt. For example, they 
could have at least checked if the phone was operational by trying to turn it on. They could  
also have removed the back cover to try and establish if any of the internal parts had been 
damaged.
Mr H has said with the exception of the reported defects and the damage to the back cover, 
the phone works normally. Ive been given no evidence which contradicts Mr Hs 
assessment of the phone, and Ive no grounds to conclude his comments are false. As it 
appears Mr H phone works normally, this suggests the damage Assurant identified may only 
be cosmetic in nature. It also supports Mr Hs position that the defects he reported after two 
days were unrelated. So, based on the limited available evidence and on balance, I dont 
think its likely Mr H received a satisfactory settlement to his original claim or a defect free 
phone. 
I appreciate the damage may have prevented Assurant from repairing the phone and putting 
things right for Mr H, but I havent been provided with any evidence which supports this. For 
example, a report from an engineer which explains they identified the microphone problem, 
attempted a repair, but couldnt complete it due to the risk of causing further damage to the 
rest of the phone. 
Its also possible that depending on the work that was needed and the availability/cost of 
necessary parts, Assurant may have concluded the phone needed to be replaced in any 
event. I appreciate Assurants case handler has said this possibility is unlikely, but its not 
clear what this conclusion was based on. Shes also highlighted the fact only an engineer 
would be able to comment on this issue for certain. So, Im not convinced Assurant have 
done enough to show they suffered a detriment or that it was fair to request a further excess 
due to the damage visible on the back of the phone.Im aware Mr H still owns the faulty phone, so an inspection could still take place. However, 
given the time that has passed, and the fact Assurant previously declined this opportunity  I 
dont think this would be fair. I also note that Mr H has questioned whether he actually 
received a different device in response to his original claim. However, as the phones have 
different IMEI numbers Im satisfied he did. 
Im also mindful of the fact that by declining to settle this matter, Assurant have indirectly 
accused Mr H of consistently lying both to Assurant and this service. This is a serious 
accusation, so Ive carefully considered if there is another explanation which could 
reasonably explain what happened. As mentioned above, I find Mr Hs testimony to be 
persuasive and his version of events to be consistent. I also note that he strongly denied 
Assurants claim that the phone had been damaged until it was sent back to him, and he 
could see it for himself. So, all of his actions and comments reflect what I would reasonably 
expect under the circumstances.
I equally see no reason to question Assurants policy for reporting staff damage and can 
understand why they dont routinely keep photographs of phones in their packaging  
despite how helpful this may have been here. I also see no grounds for concluding 
Assurants staff would have deliberately caused damage to Mr Hs phone. However, this 
doesnt rule out the possibility of an accident taking place, perhaps without the staff member 
even realising what had happened. Ultimately, there is no way I can establish for certain 
what happened, and I dont think I need to reach a definitive finding about this to fairly 
resolve this complaint. However, I do acknowledge the strength of feeling on both sides and 
accept its possible either party could be responsible. 
In any event, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr H has been treated fairly. Im 
satisfied on balance, that he didnt receive a fair settlement to his original claim. And Im 
unconvinced Assurant have been able to justify (with supporting evidence) the reasons they 
now think a second excess is payable. In light of this, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for Assurant to settle the claim without requiring a second excess. This remains the case 
irrespective of the uncertainty surrounding the cause of the damage to the back of the 
phone.
Ive also considered Mr Hs concerns about the customer service he received throughout the 
claim and complaint. I appreciate his frustrations, but I havent identified any failings in this 
regard. Its unfortunate, Mr H struggled to identify the correct contact details for Assurant in 
the first instance, but Im satisfied this information was clearly available to him. I also 
appreciate his strength of feeling about the contents of Assurants final response, but Im 
satisfied they followed the correct process by sending it to him. 
Putting things right
The policy terms and conditions allow for claims to be settled with a repair or replacement 
refurbished phone. However, Im mindful of the fact Mr H has already waited a long time for 
this matter to be resolved and he may have already purchased a replacement device. 
So, to resolve this matter fairly and swiftly, Im satisfied he should be given the option of 
receiving a cash settlement. This settlement should be based on the amount Assurant would 
reasonably need to pay to provide a replacement phone. 
To resolve this complaint, I therefore direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
Arrange for the damaged phone to be returned to them should they require it.
Fully repair the phone or provide a replacement as per the policy terms and 
conditions. Alternatively, should Mr and Mrs H prefer, pay a cash settlement based on the amount it would reasonably cost them to provide a replacement handset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to settle it as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman