DRN-2285992
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank (first direct) 
handled a bill payment she tied to make. Mrs P says first directs security verification process 
has too many stages and that it blocked access to her online and telephone banking when 
she called to verify the payment. 
What happened
On 23 July 2019 Mrs P instructed a bill payment to be made from her first direct current 
account and it was approved. On 24 July 2019 Mrs P attempted a second bill payment to the 
same recipient but it was blocked. First direct tried to speak with Mrs P to verify the payment 
on 24 July 2019 but she was at work and couldnt take the call. 
On 26 July 2019 Mrs Ps husband, Mr P, called first direct. Mr P gave Mrs Ps details at the 
start of the call and told the call handler that he accesses and administers her online 
banking. The call handler asked to speak with Mrs P and identified her by asking security 
questions. 
The call handler explained to Mrs P that her online and telephone banking facilities had been 
blocked because her husband had advised he had access to them. first direct doesnt allow 
customers to share their online banking credentials. 
The call handler then asked Mrs P about the £10,000 bill payment she attempted on 
24 July 2019 and she confirmed the payment was genuine. The call hander told Mrs P the 
payment could be processed that day, once she had gone through some information. But 
Mrs P said she was unhappy and Mr P came back on the line, taking over the call. The call 
handler asked to be put back through to Mrs P. 
first directs call handler explained that as the call had been passed to someone else, Mrs P 
had to complete more security questions. But Mrs P didnt answer them and verification 
couldnt be completed. The bill payment instructed on 24 July 2019 wasnt approved by first 
direct. 
Mrs P complained and first direct responded on 14 August 2019 and sent a follow up on 
6 September 2019. First direct didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Mrs Ps complaint was 
referred to our service and passed to an investigator. They didnt find that first direct had 
treated Mrs P unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. On Mrs Ps behalf, Mr P asked to 
appeal so this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs P feels that the banks decision to block the bill payment she made on 
24 July 2019 was unreasonable. But the account terms say it wont make a payment if it 
thinks there may have been breach of security or risk of fraud. I accept that Mrs P had made 
an identical payment 24 hours earlier and also completed online security when she 
instructed the bill payment. But the systems evidence Ive seen shows the 24 July 2019 bill 
payment was picked up as potentially fraudulent. In those circumstances, I would expect a 
business to place a temporary block and for the payment to be checked with the account 
holder. 
first direct called Mrs P on 24 July 2019 and wrote to her about the issue. I understand Mrs P 
was busy with work commitments, but Im satisfied first direct had a legitimate reason for 
speaking with her to check the bill payment before sending it. 
Ive listened to the call on 26 July 2019 and I accept that Mrs P and also Mr P became 
frustrated with the process and situation. But, I dont agree that the call was handled poorly 
by first direct or that it asked too many security questions. In addition, I think first directs 
decision to suspend online and telephone banking account access and block the bill 
payment were reasonable steps to take. Ill explain why. 
Mr P started the call by providing Mrs Ps name and details. I appreciate he wanted to speak 
on Mrs Ps behalf, but it is unusual for someone else to call and give an account holders 
name. At the start of the call, before security questions were completed with Mrs P, Mr P 
said he accessed and administered her online banking. first directs terms and conditions 
say that if the account holder doesnt keep their details confidential it will block access to the 
account. The information Ive seen shows first directs decision was in line with the account 
terms and Im satisfied the block was applied to try and protect Mrs Ps account. 
Quite a lot of the conversation I heard revolved around the online account access issue and 
that clearly impacted how long the call took. After Mrs P answered the security questions 
and confirmed the bill payment was genuine, the call handler explained that she needed to 
go through some information to approve it. At this point Mrs P explained she was unhappy 
and Mr P took the call over. But, as Ive said above, first direct needed to speak with the 
account holder to approve the payment. After Mr P took over the call it was handed back to 
Mrs P and the call handler advised they would have to recomplete the security questions. 
Whilst I understand the situation was frustrating, first direct has confirmed their process is to 
verify people when they come back on a call. Im satisfied first direct had a legitimate reason 
to recomplete the security checks with Mrs P. Unfortunately, Mrs P wasnt able to answer all 
the security questions and that meant the bill payment wasnt approved. 
I havent found that first directs actions were unreasonable or that it has treated Mrs P 
unfairly. Im satisfied the original bill payment was temporarily blocked because of genuine 
concerns about fraud. And I think the decision to block Mrs Ps online and telephone banking 
access was fair and in line with the account terms because her confidential information was 
given to Mr P. After Mr P took the call back over, first direct wasnt able to recomplete 
security with Mrs P so couldnt process the bill payment for her. 
I appreciate the concerns that first directs actions were heavy handed, but the bill payment 
was for £10,000 and I think the decision to block the payment for further checks was 
reasonable. Having considered all the available information, Im satisfied first direct has dealt 
with Mrs Ps complaint fairly so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman