DRN-3624031
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs T complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their claim for a 
refund of premium in relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr J and Mrs T had an annual multi-trip policy which started on 
11 March 2020 and ended on 10 March 2021. They chose cruise cover as an additional 
option. The premium paid to URV was £616. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On 
12 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, formerly the Foreign 
& Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advised elderly or at risk groups against cruises. On  
17 March 2020 the FCDO advised against non-essential travel abroad. 
Mr J had arranged to go on a cruise with friends. The intended departure date was in 
June 2020. The travel provider cancelled that trip. Mr J received a refund and didnt 
make a claim on the policy. 
On 4 July 2020, the FCDO published updated guidance including a list of countries 
exempt from advice against non-essential travel. There were subsequently changes to 
that list.  
In January 2021, travel abroad was only possible with a legally permitted reason and the 
UK government closed all remaining travel corridors. That remained the position for the 
remainder of Mr J and Mrs Ts policy term. 
In March 2021, after the policy had ended, Mr J asked URV for a refund of premium.    
Mr J said that, due to the unprecedented circumstances arising out of Covid-19, URV 
bore no risk under the policy and should therefore refund the premium. 
URV offered Mr J a refund of 1/12th of the premium as a gesture of goodwill. Mr J didnt 
think that was fair and pursued the complaint. Mr J and Mrs T want a refund of the 
premium they paid to URV, and interest. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The 
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make 
it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy 
started on 11 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that URVs offer to refund 1/12th of the premium was fair and reasonable, 
particularly as there wasnt a full month remaining on the policy when Mr J asked for a 
refund. 
URV agreed with the investigator but Mr J and Mrs T didnt. Mr J responded at some length, 
which I wont set out here. In summary, Mr J said:
The complaint isnt about the cancellation period, notice period, the cooling off period 
or the pro rata premium calculation; its about URV retaining the premium and 
providing no cover, as Covid-19 restrictions made it impossible for it to do so. 
In the circumstances which occurred here, reasonable insurance practice requires 
the policy to be null and void and a return of the premium. 
The assessment could only be made at the end of the policy term so at the 
suggestion of their broker, they took this matter up with URV after the policy had 
ended.  
They took no trips during the policy term. 
The investigator hadnt commented on a previous decision of this service in a 
comparable case. 
The investigator considered what Mr J said but didnt change her view. Mr J asked that an 
ombudsman consider the matter, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js submissions are detailed and comprehensive. Ive read through all this carefully and 
taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither Mr J nor Mrs T 
will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central issues in the case, 
that is whether URV treated them unfairly or unreasonably in proceeding as it did. 
Were an informal alternative to the courts. Our role is to consider all of the evidence we 
receive, decide whats relevant to reaching a fair outcome, and come to a conclusion on how 
we think the dispute should be settled. So, I wont be addressing all of the points Mr J has 
made. That doesnt mean Ive ignored what hes said. Ive considered everything both 
parties have provided but I confine my findings to the issues on which the outcome of the 
complaint turns. 
 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations, and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations in the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation
Automatic cancellation rights
You may cancel this policy within 14 days of receipt of the policy documents (new business) 
and for Year Round policies the renewal date (the cancellation period) by writing to the 
address shown in your schedule during the cancellation period. Any premium already
paid will be refunded to you providing you have not travelled, no claim has been made or is 
intended to be made and no incident likely to give rise to a claim has occurred.
Cancellation outside the statutory periodShould you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, and can 
confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and that you have not travelled, the 
following cancellation terms will be applied dependant on what type of policy you have 
purchased.
Trip Travel, Long Stay and Young Traveller policies - If we agree to refund, then we will 
refund 50% of the policy premium. If you have also paid an additional premium because of 
an existing medical condition, we will refund that portion in full.
Year Round policies - If we agree to a refund, then we will refund 1/12th of the total 
premium (including any additional premium charged for an existing medical condition) you 
have paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of
cancellation.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr J and Mrs T didnt cancel their policy during the cooling off period, so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for URV to offer a 
refund. 
Mr J and Mrs T didnt ask URV to cancel the policy during the period of insurance.  
So, URV wasnt obliged to have regard to the cancellation provisions in the policy. 
Ive noted what Mr J says about the reasons for them waiting until after the policy 
ended before asking URV for a refund, but Mr J and Mrs T could have cancelled the 
policy at any time. 
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding  
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I think URVs offer of a refund of 1/12th of 
the premium is fair and reasonable. Its proceeded on the basis that Mr J and Mrs T 
cancelled the policy before the final month of cover. Thats more than its obliged to 
do. 
I dont agree that URV bore no risk in relation to Mr J and Mrs Ts policy. While travel 
was difficult during the period of the policy, there were months where Mr J and Mrs T 
could travel abroad. The policy covered trips abroad other than cruises. It also 
covered UK trips. In his initial complaint to URV, Mr J said that they arranged UK 
holidays during summer 2020. I dont think its right to say that the policy was void 
because of government restrictions on travel. 
Mr J has referred to a previous decision made by this service. Each complaint is 
considered on its own merits. There are significant differences between the case to 
which Mr J has referred and Mr J and Mrs Ts complaint. The other case concerned a 
single trip insurance policy where the policyholder asked the insurer for a refund of 
premium before the end date of the policy following cancellation of a cruise. In the 
particular circumstances of that case, there was no risk to the insurer. In Mr J and 
Mrs Ts case, they asked URV for a refund after the end of the term of their annual 
policy, as they hadnt travelled as they expected. As Ive said above, I dont agree 
that URV bore no risk here. 
Considering everything, there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct URV to 
refund the premium to Mr J and Mrs T. I think that the offer URV has already made is 
fair and reasonable in this case. If Mr J and Mrs T wish to take up that offer, they 
should contact URV direct.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Ts complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman