DRN-4444620
The complaint
Mr R is complaining West Bay Insurance Plc didnt repair his car after he made a claim on 
his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr  Rs car was hit by a third partys vehicle while parked. He contacted West Bay to claim 
for the damage to the car. West Bay initially had concerns about whether the car was 
covered under the policy and asked Mr R to provide evidence of when he bought the car. 
Mr R provided this and West Bay was then satisfied that the claim was covered. And it said it 
would settle the claim by paying Mr R the trade value of the car, less the policys excess of 
£250. It valued the car at £2,300. Mr R said he wanted to keep the car, so West Bay 
deducted £661.25 from the settlement, which it said was the cars salvage value. So it said it 
would settle the claim by paying Mr R £1,388.75, which it did.
Mr R didnt agree with the way West Bay wanted to settle the claim as he wanted it to repair 
the car and he provided the repair estimate for it to settle. He said hed shown the car was 
repairable and he wasnt at fault for the damage. So he maintained West Bay should repair 
the car. He also returned the amount West Bay paid to settle the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she thought it was fair for West Bay to pay 
the trade value of the car as the repair costs were more than the car was worth.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
I recognise Mr R is unhappy that West Bay wrote the car off because he wasnt at fault for 
the damage and hes shown the car was repairable. But the terms of the insurance policy set 
out, like every motor insurance policy on the market, that West Bay has the right to decide 
whether to repair the car or what it would cost to replace it. But it must exercise this right 
fairly.
When an insurer writes a car off and settles the claim by paying the cars value, it doesnt 
necessarily mean the car cant be repaired, but that its not economical to repair it. And I 
dont think this is unfair as, by paying the cars value, it enables the policyholder to replace 
the car with another car of the same age, mileage and specification. This is standard with all 
motor insurance policies.
The terms of the insurance policy dont change whether the policyholder is at fault for the 
loss or damage or not. Ultimately, the terms of the policy entitle West Bay to choose the 
most economical way to settle the claim and, as I said above, its not unreasonable that it 
does as such.
In this case West Bay valued the car at £2,300, but Mr R has said it would cost around 
£3,800 to fix the car. So it would cost considerably more to repair the car than its worth. I do 
not dispute (and neither did West Bay) that the car was repairable. But I cant say West Bay 
has been unfair in paying the cars value rather than repairing it. And Im satisfied its valued 
the car fairly.
So, while I appreciate Mr R feels strongly that West Bay should have either repaired the car 
or paid him the amount hes paid to repair it himself, Im satisfied its acted fairly in the way it 
wants to settle the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Mr R should contact West Bay if he still wants it to settle the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman