DRN-3692604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc wouldnt offer them any interest rate
products on their mortgage due to the fact they were self-certified customers. They feel
theyve been treated unfairly and have overpaid as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 2008 on a self-certified basis.
That meant they didnt need to provide proof of their income in order to get the mortgage
approved. The mortgage was taken on an initial interest rate product that would track 0.49%
above the Bank of England base rate until 1 May 2011.
In April 2011 Mr and Mrs B spoke to Bank of Scotland about their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B
say they asked about new interest rate products and were told that there werent any
available to them as their mortgage was self-certified, and the bank no longer offered those
mortgages. Mr and Mrs B say they shopped around and looked at what was available with
other lenders and they found the same thing. Their mortgage reverted onto Bank of
Scotlands standard variable rate (SVR), which is the rate it was on until 2021.
Mr and Mrs B said they spoke to Bank of Scotland again over the years and asked about
interest rates. They say they were repeatedly told there were no rates available to them as
they had a self-certified mortgage. Bank of Scotland have told our service they dont have
any record of those later conversations.
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs B complained to Bank of Scotland about the fact they hadnt been
offered any interest rate products over the last 10 years. Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the
complaint. They said that there had been rates available to Mr and Mrs B over the years as
self-certified customers, but the rates were higher than the SVR they were already paying.
They said if Mr and Mrs B had been able to provide proof of their income, they could have
applied for a mainstream product which would have been lower. Bank of Scotland also said
they had no records of any other conversations with Mr or Mrs B about interest rates after
2011. They said there were rates available to Mr and Mrs B now if they still wanted to switch.
Mr and Mrs B applied for an interest rate product which was successful. Bank of Scotland
also sent Mr and Mrs B a follow up letter to explain that the earliest they could have applied 
to switch to a mainstream product was 2019, but they didnt have any records to suggest Mr 
and Mrs B had asked about new rates since then. So they didnt change the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. Bank of Scotland didnt consent to our
service considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about what happened more than six years
before they complained, as they said that had been made out of time. Our Investigator
looked into things, and explained that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about what had happened
before March 2015 had been made outside of the time limits, so we couldnt consider it. She
did say we could consider whether Bank of Scotland were treating Mr and Mrs B fairly from
March 2015 onwards as that part of the complaint had been made in time. Both parties
agreed to proceed on that basis.
The Investigator looked into what happened since March 2015, and having done so, she
didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted that our service cannot consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about
events that took place before March 2015. I agree that the time limit rules prevent our
service from considering a complaint about that period too. So in this decision, I have
considered how Bank of Scotland have treated Mr and Mrs B from March 2015 onwards.
Did Mr and Mrs B ask Bank of Scotland about new interest rate products?
There was no regulatory requirement or expectation for Bank of Scotland to pro-actively
reach out to individual borrowers on the SVR and invite them to apply for a new product at
the relevant time being complained about. If Mr and Mrs B wanted to take out a new product
on their mortgage, they needed to contact the bank and ask for one.
Bank of Scotland have told our service that they have no record of any contact from Mr and
Mrs B about their mortgage during the relevant period. And having looked at a copy of the
account notes Bank of Scotland have sent to us, I can see there is no record there of any
conversations with Mr and Mrs B from March 2015 onwards until this complaint was made.
However, Mr and Mrs B have told us that they did call the bank to ask about new rates, and
were told that there werent any available to them. So Ive thought about whats most likely to
have happened here based on the balance of probabilities.
Mr and Mrs B have said they called Bank of Scotland in more recent years after the bank
had written to them about their repayment strategy. They said they received letters about
this in August 2014, June 2015 and May 2018, and contacted the bank afterwards. But when
they called, they were told there were no preferential rates available to them, unless they
were able to provide proof of their income. Bank of Scotland have said they did have interest
rate products available for self-certified customers from March 2015 onwards, and have sent
us details of those rates. The products offered to self-certified customers were higher than
the SVR Mr and Mrs B were paying at the time. Bank of Scotland have said it was only in
2019 that they aligned their rates and so they had lower rate options available to Mr and Mrs
B without them having to provide proof of their income.
I think its plausible that Mr and Mrs B did call Bank of Scotland to ask about interest rate
products in the years following March 2015. I think its likely that when those enquiries took
place, Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs B the rates they had available for self-certified
customers, but as they were higher than what they were paying, Mr and Mrs B did not go
ahead with an application. Bank of Scotland have said that if an application doesnt proceed 
for any reason, it drops off their system after a few months. So I think the fact theres no
record of these conversations doesnt mean they didnt happen. Mr and Mrs B could have
called as a general enquiry rather than an account specific question  which would mean it
wouldnt be recorded on their account notes, and if no application was made then the bank
have said it wouldnt stay on their records for more than a few months.Mr and Mrs B have provided specific dates and recollections of what happened to prompt
those conversations, as well as what they were told. Based on the fact that they would have
been told they wouldnt have been able to access a lower interest rate during those
conversations, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Bs recollections are plausible. So, on balance, I
think its likely Mr and Mrs B did call Bank of Scotland in June 2015 and May 2018, and
asked about interest rate products available to them.
Was it fair that Bank of Scotland didnt offer them a preferable interest rate?
Mr and Mrs B have said that its unfair Bank of Scotland have continued to charge them a
high interest rate as a result of their mortgage being self-certified. They say theyre trapped
with Bank of Scotland as self-certified mortgages are not allowed under the rules anymore,
and theyre unable to provide proof of their income. So they cant pass affordability
assessments with new lenders. Considering Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, I think thats
likely. As a result, theyve had to continue paying Bank of Scotlands SVR despite the fact
theyve never missed a payment.
Im pleased to hear that Mr and Mrs B have now been able to access a lower rate with Bank
of Scotland, but Ive thought about whether they should have been offered a lower rate
sooner, and specifically when they called the bank in June 2015 and May 2018.
Bank of Scotland have said that they only offered preferential rates to self-certified
customers from 2019. Before that, in order to access a preferential rate Mr and Mrs B would
have been required to provide proof of their income. Im also aware they would have had to
pass a full affordability assessment based on the banks lending criteria at the time. And so
in order for Mr and Mrs B to access the lower interest rate products before 2019, they would
have needed to have met the new borrower criteria, and essentially take out a new mortgage
as new customers. Ive thought carefully about this, and Im not satisfied thats resulted in
fair treatment for Mr and Mrs B.
When considering whether Bank of Scotland have acted fairly, I need to consider the
relevant rules, guidance, law and industry practice. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
has set out an evidential provision in the Mortgage Conduct of Business handbook (MCOB)
in relation to the fair treatment of borrowers who are unable to shop around and move their
mortgage to another lender. Ive set this out below, as I think its relevant when deciding
whether Bank of Scotland have treated Mr and Mrs B fairly.
MCOB 11.8.1 E says:
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary the
terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the
existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a
new mortgage lender or home purchase provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example, by offering
less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the customer's situation or
treat the customer any less favourably than it would treat other customers with similar
characteristics.
To do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 (Customers
interests).Principle 6 says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I think this is relevant to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Technically, Mr and Mrs B were able to vary their existing mortgage with Bank of Scotland
as they were able to take out their self-certified products  albeit these were higher than the
banks SVR at the time. However, Ive explained above why Im persuaded, on balance, that
Mr and Mrs B were unable to enter into a new mortgage contract with a new lender. So I
think sub-point (2) applies above  even if they could access a new product with Bank of
Scotland, Mr and Mrs B come within 11.8.1 because they had no options on the wider
market. 11.8.1 does not require both (1) and (2) to be satisfied before it is relevant to
considering whether they were fairly treated, it requires either to be satisfied. Mr and Mrs B
satisfied 11.8.1 (2).
The rates Bank of Scotland offered to Mr and Mrs B were higher than the rates they offered
to their non self-certified borrowers (i.e. those borrowers who had provided proof of their
income when the mortgage was taken out). Bank of Scotland say they couldnt offer Mr and
Mrs B the lower rates until they provided proof of their income, whereas Im aware non self-
certified borrowers would have been granted access to a lower rate without the need to pass
an affordability assessment, or provide proof of their current income. Though proof would
have been provided when those other customers took their mortgages out  in some cases
many years before when their circumstances were different  not when applying for a rate
later on. Non self-certified Bank of Scotland borrowers were not required to have their
income assessed or to prove it when applying for a new rate.
11.8.1 E does not require all customers to be treated the same. But it does, in my view,
show that there may be unfairness where a borrower who is unable to move to another 
lender is treated less favourably than a borrower who shares similar characteristics, for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms. Where the lender offers 
less favourable products to some customers, it may give rise to the possibility of unfair 
outcomes in some situations. 11.8.1 E suggests that the regulator considered there to be the 
potential for unfairness where borrowers are unable to shop around.
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs B, who originally became Bank of Scotlands
customers as self-certified borrowers, could  at the time of the conversations in 2015 and
2018 - be considered as having similar characteristics as a different borrower with Bank of
Scotland, who had originally provided proof of income and been offered a lower interest rate
product. I think this is the central question I need to decide.
At the time of the conversations in 2015 and 2018, Mr and Mrs B had an interest only
mortgage and were up to date with their payments. I think its likely that there were other
Bank of Scotland borrowers whose mortgages were in much the same position (and
potentially worse), as Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage at the time, and whose circumstances at that
time would have been substantially similar. A significant amount of time had elapsed since
2008 when this mortgage was taken out, so Ive considered whether the way in which the
mortgage was originally taken out (i.e. self-certification vs proof of income) can properly be
said to be a characteristic relevant to the risk Mr and Mrs B presented in 2015 and 2018.
Bank of Scotland say they could only offer Mr and Mrs B a product from the non self-certified
range if they provided proof of their income, like their other borrowers had. But Im not
persuaded that how the mortgage was initially taken out in 2008 was a relevant 
consideration or characteristic in 2015. Whilst they hadnt proved their income, Mr and Mrs
B had met Bank of Scotlands eligibility and lending criteria as new borrowers in 2008. But,as these criteria changed over time, following the introduction of tighter regulation and more
stringent checks  Mr and Mrs B did not meet the new borrower criteria for other lenders by
2015.
If a non self-certified Bank of Scotland borrower wanted to apply for a new interest rate
product in 2015, they would not have been required to pass an affordability assessment.
That means that they were not required to meet the banks new lending criteria in order to
access the cheaper rates. I think its likely that there were other Bank of Scotland borrowers
who, although theyd passed the lending criteria in 2008, would have been unable to pass
the new, stricter lending criteria that existed in 2015.
And just because they chose to prove their income in 2008, doesnt mean they had the same
income, or circumstances relevant to the risk they presented in 2015, as they did in 2008. In
fact, I think thats very unlikely. But they wouldnt have been prevented from accessing the
cheaper rates. Mr and Mrs B have been treated less favourably than Bank of Scotlands non
self-certified customers because of the way their mortgage was approved in 2008. In my
view, when considering 11.8.1 E, I think the characteristics of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage in
2015 and 2018 are whats relevant.
When Mr and Mrs B asked about new interest rate products in 2015, I think Bank of Scotland
ought to have looked into their situation, and considered whether or not MCOB 11.8.1 E
might have been relevant, for example as here because they were unable to move to
another lender. This doesnt appear to have happened.
Mr and Mrs B were treated differently from Bank of Scotlands non self-certified borrowers as
Im satisfied that they are likely to have been required to meet higher standards than other
customers who at that time had similar characteristics in order to access the same rates. Im
not satisfied being self-certified several years previously constitutes a characteristic in itself
at the time the application was made. Im satisfied that a non self-certified customer with
similar characteristics at the time  not in arrears, with a similar loan to value, and with the
same outcome of any affordability assessment  would have been offered a more favourable
rate than Mr and Mrs B were. As a result, considering all the circumstances, I think Bank of
Scotland have treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
In my view, it would have been fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland, taking into account
11.8.1 E and all the circumstances, to have considered Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, noted
they were unable to move to another lender, and offered them a rate which was not less
favourable than would have been offered to a non self-certified customer with similar
characteristics. I am satisfied that in the circumstances it was not fair to treat Mr and Mrs B
less favourably than those other customers, at least some of whom would have been at a
similar or possibly even a greater risk of defaulting on their mortgage, and yet were offered
cheaper rates on their interest only mortgages without the need to pass a new customer
assessment.
From the evidence provided to me, it seems that Bank of Scotland didnt take any account of
11.8.1 E, or consider whether it applied in Mr and Mrs Bs situation and whether as a result
there were any particular requirements of fairness that applied to them. Had they done so, a
fair assessment would have been to offer them no less favourable rates than their other
borrowers with similar characteristics. As a result, I provisionally think this complaint should
be upheld, subject to any further comments or evidence provided by either party.
Putting things right
I think in June 2015 and May 2018 Bank of Scotland should have considered Mr and Mrs Bs
circumstances in the round and offered them a rate no less favourable than would havebeen offered to customers from their non self-certified product range. We havent been
provided with information about the interest rate products that were available for Mr and Mrs
Bs loan to value at the time. So Bank of Scotland will need to provide this information in
response to my provisional decision.
In order to put things right, I think Bank of Scotland should re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage
account as if the lower rate had been applied to the mortgage in July 2015 (the following
month after Mr and Mrs B called) and offer them the option of either:
applying the lower rate to the mortgage account which will have resulted in 
overpayments and a reduction of the balance. Or,
receiving the overpayments made as a result of the difference in the interest rates 
refunded to them in cash, as well as a payment of 8% simple interest calculated from 
the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
If the rate Mr and Mrs B would have selected in 2015 included a product fee, the fee can be
deducted from the redress payment. And when the rate selected in 2015 would have
expired, a further new rate to follow on should also be selected to form part of the re-work of
the mortgage. This should continue until Mr and Mrs B were able to successfully arrange a
new product in 2021.
Mr and Mrs B have said that their plans to repay this mortgage at the end of the term have
been severely impacted by the fact theyve been unable to switch to a preferable interest
rate product, as they havent been able to save as much money as a result. Whilst, if
accepted, the outcome of this decision will put them back into the position they would have
been in had they been able to take out new rates as planned, Im persuaded the worry to Mr
and Mrs B of having to change their plans to repay the mortgage at the end of the term
would have caused them distress and inconvenience. So I think Bank of Scotland should
pay Mr and Mrs B £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B responded and provided more details of the impact this issue has had on their 
lives over the last 10 years.
Bank of Scotland accepted the provisional decision and provided details of the rates that Mr 
and Mrs B would have been eligible for at the time of their applications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disputed my provisional decision relating to the interest rate, my 
decision on that issue remains unchanged and Im still satisfied Bank of Scotland should re-
work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account as I set out previously.
I am grateful to Mr and Mrs B for providing more details about their personal circumstances 
and the impact this issue has had on their lives. Im sorry to hear about what theyve been 
through. Considering all theyve told us, Im still satisfied £400 is a fair amount to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience Bank of Scotland caused directly as a result of not considering 
their interest rate applications from 2015 as they should have done. Mr and Mrs B will now 
be able to use the redress from this complaint to reduce the interest only balance and Im 
hopeful that will alleviate some of their worry moving forward.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I think Bank of Scotland should re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgageaccount as if the lower, prime rate had been applied to the mortgage in July 2015 (the 
following month after Mr and Mrs B called) and offer them the option of either:
applying the lower rate to the mortgage account which will have resulted in 
overpayments and a reduction of the balance. Or,
receiving the overpayments made as a result of the difference in the interest rates 
refunded to them in cash, as well as a payment of 8% simple interest* calculated 
from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
If the rate Mr and Mrs B would have selected in 2015 included a product fee, the fee can be
deducted from the redress payment. And when the rate selected in 2015 would have
expired, a further new rate to follow on should also be selected to form part of the re-work of
the mortgage. This should continue until Mr and Mrs B were able to successfully arrange a
new product in 2021.
Bank of Scotland should also pay Mr and Mrs B £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
If Mr and Mrs B accept this decision, they should also let us know which option they would 
prefer Bank of Scotland to carry out in order to put this matter right.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Bank of Scotland considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Bank of Scotland plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman