DRN-2851530
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr and Mrs H and Halifax a provisional decision on 28 April 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the PPI policy had been mis-sold. In that decision, I said:
This sale was around 17 years ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed  so 
its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules, Halifax was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Hs data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited evidence I have.
From what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, it wouldve presented the 
policy as being optional, and in order to get it, Mr and Mrs H would need to have actively 
chosen it. And the PPIs cost wouldve been set out separately to the cost of the mortgage, 
rather than as something that was part and parcel of the lending. Ive not seen any evidence 
which shows that Halifax significantly departed from its normal sales process here, or that it 
misled Mr and Mrs H into having PPI. And Ive not seen any wider problems with its sales 
process from the time. So I think its most likely that Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs H 
didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it  though I can understand if they no 
longer remember doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs H 
as possible, Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check that the policy was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr and Mrs Hs 
work benefits and covered them for much longer. It also meant they could effectively protect 
any savings they had and use them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice 
one asset to cover another. I understand Mr and Mrs Hs family may have been happy to 
help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
mortgage was Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve 
been suitable if Halifax had recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it.
Mr and Mrs H mentioned they may have had other insurance, but they werent able to give 
us any details or documents about this. And since they described it as life insurance, it 
seems likely that it was not an alternative to PPI and so would not have been relevant here. 
Of course, if in response to this provisional decision Mr and Mrs H provide evidence of this 
policy, then Ill be happy to reconsider this point. Lastly, I understand Mr and Mrs H felt 
stable in their jobs and health situation. But accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and 
do happen, even in situations that feel stable. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, 
long-term commitment, so there was no guarantee their situations would stay the same in 
the many years to come. And ultimately, if Mr and Mrs H fell behind on their mortgage they 
couldve lost their home. Overall, it looks like the PPI could have really been useful for 
Mr and Mrs H in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, it doesnt look like they were affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have really been useful for Mr and 
Mrs H in case something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
27 May 2021. But neither Mr and Mrs H nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation in this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman