DRN-3632143
The complaint
Mr S and Ms R complain about the way TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) (TSB) 
managed their mortgage.
What happened
In September 2004 Mr S and Ms R were offered a Together mortgage with Northern Rock. 
After that they took out a mortgage for £95,000 over a 25-year term. They also took out an 
unsecured loan for £20,600. The initial rate on both the secured and unsecured loan was 
7.19% until the 1 September 2006. After that the interest on both loans reverted to the 
lender's standard variable rate (SVR).
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was later nationalised. Mr S and Ms Rs mortgage 
and loan were transferred to another lender (NRAM). 
Mr S and Ms R missed occasional monthly payments on their mortgage and unsecured loan  
after this. Mr S and Ms R said they both lost their jobs in/around 2011. 
Mr S and Ms R stopped making payments towards the unsecured loan from 2012, so it has 
remained in arrears since then. Mr S said he did that because he felt the loan was invalid 
and unenforceable. However, neither NRAM nor TSB defaulted the loan and interest 
continued to be charged on their loan account until February 2021. Mr S is very unhappy 
about that. He has told us about the stress and financial consequences of that and the 
impact that had on him, Ms R and their family over the years.
Mr S and Ms Rs mortgage and loan were transferred to TSB in July 2016. They missed 
more monthly payments on their mortgage in 2016 and 2017 but it was then broadly kept up 
to date until they sold the mortgaged property in December 2020. 
Mr S and Ms R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 2019. Mr S said he 
thought their unsecured loan should have been defaulted in 2012. Our investigator looked 
into what happened. 
In February 2020 our investigator said the unsecured loan should have been defaulted in 
August 2012. He said it was clear by this point the relationship between Mr S and Ms R and 
the lender had broken down as the unsecured loan was more than six payments in arrears 
by then. TSB agreed to that. It also said it would amend Mr S and Ms Rs credit files to 
reflect that default. That meant that the default on the unsecured loan would no longer show 
on Mr S and Ms Rs credit files by August 2018 (six years after August 2012). I can see that 
TSB has done that now.
Mr S said TSB needed to compensate them for what had happened. He said the fact that 
TSB didnt act to default the unsecured loan until our investigator sent it his view meant that 
theyd been prevented from getting a better interest rate on their mortgage with other 
lenders. In other words, he said that by not defaulting the loan he and Ms R were trapped 
on TSBs standard variable rate (SVR)  a rate they thought was unfairly high.
In June 2022 our investigator said that since 2012, the unsecured loan balance had 
increased from £18,501.25 to £26,390. He said that the majority of that increase was due to 
unpaid interest. He said that TSB should have shown forbearance towards Mr S and Ms R, 
even though theyd stopped paying the unsecured loan for many years and didnt co-operate 
with it. He said that from the point the loan should have defaulted in August 2012, interest 
shouldnt have been applied to the account. So he said that TSB should rework the loan to 
reflect that. However he went on to say that when doing that TSB should only reduce the 
outstanding balance on the unsecured loan. Thats because he didnt think it would be fair 
for TSB to be required to refund Mr S and Ms R interest repayments that they hadnt made 
since 2012.
Our investigator went on to consider Mr S point that by not agreeing to default the loan until 
after our investigator sent his 2020 view Mr S and Ms R were trapped paying their 
mortgage on TSBs SVR. Our investigator wasnt persuaded by this. 
However, our investigator could see that Mr S and Ms R had asked TSB for a lower interest 
rate on the mortgage in March 2019. By then it was offering new interest rates to customers 
with Together mortgages. TSB declined Mr S and Ms Rs request at the time because their 
unsecured loan was in arrears. As TSB has agreed to retrospectively default the unsecured 
loan in August 2012, and as Mr S and Ms Rs mortgage was up to date in March 2019, our 
investigator thought TSB was wrong to decline Mr Ss request for a better interest rate on the 
mortgage in 2019.
With that in mind, our investigator said that TSB should have given Mr S and Ms R its lowest 
two-year fixed rate on the mortgage in March 2019. So he said TSB should recalculate the 
mortgage as if that rate had applied at the time until the mortgage was redeemed in 
December 2020. However, as Mr S and Ms R had still had the benefit of the unsecured loan, 
he thought TSB were still entitled to ask for the loan to be repaid. 
Mr S broadly accepted what our investigator said. But he was unhappy with the redress 
recommended. He asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has been 
passed to me to decide. He raised a number of points that Ive considered below.
TSB said it didnt agree with all our investigators conclusions. But it acknowledged that it 
could have handled matters better. So it agreed to the redress our investigator 
recommended as a gesture of goodwill.
For completeness Ill say here that Mr S complained to TSB about the unsecured loan 
(saying it was invalid and unenforceable) a number of times after he stopped making 
payments towards it in 2012. He remained unhappy about TSBs responses and was 
directed towards the Financial Ombudsman Service. But he didnt complain to us about the 
issue in the time limits set out in our rules. Mr S and Ms R accepted that. So I wont consider 
that issue in this complaint.
I can also see that when Mr S and Ms R first brought this complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in 2019 they also complained that the unsecured loan was mis-sold, 
about its terms and conditions and issues about the documentation they were initially sent. 
Mr S accepted that they were out of time to complain about those issues too. Mr S and Ms R 
also said that they felt the unsecured loan was statute-barred so they didnt think they should 
be required to pay it anymore. Our investigator said he wouldnt consider that issue as theyd 
already complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about it. Mr S and Ms R accepted 
that we couldnt consider those issues again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
In broad terms both parties have accepted our investigators view of the case. However, 
Mr S said he didnt think the redress he recommended is enough. So I will take the redress 
recommended by our investigator as my starting point.Our investigator said that TSB should resolve this complaint by reworking the unsecured 
loan to ensure that interest is not applied from August 2012. Theres no dispute about this 
issue so I also think TSB should do that. I can see that TSB has accepted that the 
unsecured loan should have been defaulted in August 2012 and has already amended Mr S 
and Ms Rs credit files to reflect that. I think the interest that was applied to the unsecured 
loan account after August 2012 should be taken off the balance of that account. Its clear 
that Mr S wants that money to be given to him directly as a form of compensation. He has 
said he would be better off if he and Ms R had declared themselves bankrupt, as that would 
have meant that their debts would have been written off at that point. But they didnt do that 
and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for them to be paid compensation directly 
when they owe TSB a significant balance in relation to the unsecured loan they didnt repay 
from August 2012.
When should Mr S and Ms R have been given a better interest rate on their mortgage? 
Mr S said he asked for a new interest rate on his mortgage in 2017, not 2019 but he hasnt 
been clear about when that was. However, Ive considered TSBs notes of its contact with Mr 
S and Ms R, and havent seen anything to support that. 
Im also aware that even if the unsecured loan had been defaulted in August 2012 there 
would still have been a default on Mr S and Ms Rs credit files until August 2018. 
So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that TSB should have given 
Mr S and Ms R a better interest rate on their mortgage in 2017. I think it was only after Mr S 
and Ms R asked for a new interest rate on their mortgage in 2019 (by which time there were 
no arrears on the mortgage) that TSB should have given them one. TSB wasnt obliged to 
consider offering Mr S and Ms R a new interest rate on their mortgage until theyd asked for 
one. 
I appreciate that Mr S thinks the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regarding mortgage prisoners supports his belief that he should have been offered a better 
rate sooner. But I disagree. The relevant guidance is clear that that the decision to lend, and 
the interest rate charged, is a commercial decision for lenders. TSB says it took the 
commercial decision that it would only offer new interest rates to customers in Mr S and Ms 
Rs position who were not in arrears. I can understand why TSB might have taken that 
decision. Usually lenders would want to see a history of mortgage payments being met 
before agreeing a new fixed rate. Thats because fixed rates products usually have 
significant early repayment charges in place to cover a lenders costs if the borrower ends 
the fixed rate product early. So TSB would have needed to consider whether such a product 
was appropriate for borrowers that didnt have a history of mortgage payments being met. 
What mortgage product should Mr S and Ms R have been given in 2019?
Our investigator recommended that TSB should rework the mortgage as if the best two-year 
fixed rate that was available to Mr S and Ms R had applied from March 2019 (when Mr S 
asked a new interest rate). He said that when it does that it should take into account any 
fees they would have incurred, such as product fees. If they benefit from the rework, TSB 
should apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment Mr S and Ms R have made as a result 
of the rework. He also said that if it turns out that the product fee costs outweigh the benefit 
of the lower rate, TSB should not carry out the rework and act as if Mr S and Ms Rs 
mortgage remained on the SVR.
Mr S broadly agreed to this. However, he said that he and Ms R sold the mortgaged property 
in December 2020 because of a number of factors at that time including paying what he 
thought was an inflated mortgage, the covid-19 pandemic and the unpredictable 
environment surrounding work conditions. Mr S has told us that he and Ms R lost 40% of 
their income during the pandemic. They hadnt found TSB to be sympathetic or 
understanding in the past, so they didnt think it would be in 2020 if they were to miss 
payments. He said that if they had had the opportunity to pay a lower interest rate on the mortgage (meaning their payments were £250 each month as opposed to the £675 a month 
they were paying) they wouldnt have needed to sell the mortgaged property.
Theres no doubt from what Mr S has told us that he and Ms R took the decision to sell (at 
the agreed price) after weighing up a several factors  a number of which (the covid-19 
pandemic and the consequences of that including the reduction to their incomes) were 
outside TSBs control. Im conscious that their mortgage still had a nine-year term around 
that time. So I dont think its likely that Mr S and Ms R would have been able to reduce their 
monthly payments to £250 a month at that time without extending the term of their mortgage 
 something they didnt ask TSB to do. Im also conscious that the average interest rate on a 
two-year fixed rate mortgage at that time was 2.49%. I can see that from April 2020 the 
interest rate on their mortgage reduced to 4.38% meaning that their monthly repayments 
were £609.27. I think that by fixing their interest rate at around 2.49% they would have been 
able to reduce their mortgage repayments, but as I said above, Im not persuaded that its 
likely that they wouldve been able to reduce their monthly payments to £250 a month.
So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that TSB was responsible for 
Mr S and Ms R having to sell the mortgaged property in December 2020 as Mr S has 
suggested. 
There are two further points Id like to make here. 
The mortgage was redeemed in December 2020. That is likely to have been within a two-
year fixed rate period beginning in March 2019. Im conscious that a two-year fixed rate 
product was likely to have included an ERC that wouldve been payable if the mortgage was 
redeemed within the two-year period. However, I think its likely that if Mr S and Ms R had 
been given such a product in March 2019, they would have delayed redeeming their 
mortgage by a few months to avoid paying the ERC. So when TSB reworks the mortgage, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for it to deduct any ERC that wouldve been 
payable when they redeemed the mortgage from any refund. 
Ive shared my thinking on this point with Mr S and Ms R and theyve said they agree with 
me. TSB is also willing to ensure that no ERC is charged when it reworks the mortgage.
Secondly, I can see that our investigator said that the unsecured loan (even though it has 
been defaulted now) will continue to be a debt Mr S and Ms R are required to pay. So he 
thought that TSB was entitled to continue to ask for the debt to be repaid. I agree with that 
as theres no dispute that Mr S and Ms R had the benefit of the loan. However, I dont think it 
follows that any refund that may be due in relation to the mortgage should be paid towards to 
the unsecured loan debt. I say that because the mortgage and unsecured loan were always 
separate debts, so I think its fair and reasonable for them to be continued to be treated 
separately. 
The parties appear to be content with this point too.
I will now go on to cover the other points Mr S has made.
Should Mr S and Ms R be awarded more compensation for what happened?
Mr S has said that if the default had been recorded in 2012, it would have stopped being 
recorded on his and Ms Rs credit files by August 2018. So they wouldve been able to take 
advantage of the historically low interest rates at the time to get another mortgage. He has 
told us that he and Ms R tried to do this but were declined, but he hasnt provided us with 
evidence to demonstrate that. So Mr S thinks he should get more compensation to reflect 
that. He also thinks he and Ms R should be given compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he says they suffered over the years.
I appreciate the points Mr S has made, but Mr S and Ms Rs mortgage statements show that 
the mortgage was in and out of arrears until September 2018. So their ability to get credit 
would have been affected by that as well as the default that would have been on their credit files in relation to their unsecured loan. Im also conscious that Mr S and Ms R had  
experienced a protracted period of financial difficulty in the six years before September 2018 
so I think its likely that there were other accounts on their credit files around that time that 
are likely to have had an impact on their ability to get credit.
It follows that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to compensate Mr S and 
Ms R for any difficulties they might have had taking advantage of interest rates that were 
available around 2018.
Mr S has told us that he thinks he and Ms R should be compensated for the stress and 
mental impact this matter has caused them. Im very sorry to hear about that. However, I 
think its worth me making the point again here that Mr S and Ms R have had to deal with a 
long period of financial difficulties over the years that have clearly had a profound impact on 
them and have affected their ability to pay the Together loan and mortgage. I think its likely 
that those difficulties meant that Mr S and Ms R struggled to pay the unsecured loan and 
then to question its validity. Mr S and Ms Rs credit files were affected by their decision not to 
repay the unsecured loan from 2012/ their decision not to co-operate with TSB in relation to 
the unsecured loan. So I think its fair to say that Mr S and Ms Rs actions were also a big 
factor in the way the unsecured loan was managed over the years and the impact it had on 
their lives.
For completeness Ill say here that Im conscious that Mr S has made it clear that he doesnt 
think its fair to say that they chose not to repay the unsecured loan. He has said they 
stopped paying the loan because they disputed its validity. I understand Mr S position on 
that but can see that they made use of the money lent to them under the loan. So I think 
TSB is entitled to ask them to repay it. 
Mr S has complained that the Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt done enough to 
consider the fact that before 2016 the lender started court proceedings to repossess the 
mortgaged property. He says thats evidence of the lender bullying and intimidating him and 
Ms R. Ive been provided with limited information about this period of time and Im conscious 
that this hasnt been the focus of Mr S and Ms Rs complaint with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. So I think that if Mr S wants to complain about this issue he should raise the matter 
with TSB in a separate complaint, so that it has the chance to consider the matter in full.
conclusion 
Bearing in mind everything thats been said and provided on this case, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to award Mr S and Ms R more compensation for what 
happened.
Finally, and for completeness, I think its worth me saying here that I can see that Mr S has 
raised a number of questions about TSBs actions that he wants specific answers to. I 
understand that hes keen to understand every detail about the way it handled the matters 
raised in this complaint. But it isnt for us, an informal dispute resolution service, to provide a 
detailed explanation of why the lender acted as it did or to require TSB to answer every 
question that Mr S and Ms R put to it.
Putting things right
I think that TSB should put things right by reworking Mr S and Ms Rs unsecured loan and 
mortgage as set out below.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc (trading as 
Whistletree) should:
rework Mr S and Ms Rs unsecured loan to ensure that interest is not applied from August 2012.
rework Mr S and Ms Rs mortgage as if a two-year fixed rate (the lowest interest rate 
available in relation to the relevant loan to value) had applied in March 2019, taking 
into account any fees they wouldve incurred getting that product. If Mr S and Ms R 
would benefit from the rework, TSB should apply 8% simple interest to any 
overpayment they have made towards their mortgage between March 2019 and 
December 2020 as a result of the rework from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. If the rework would worsen Mr S and Ms Rs position  due to 
fees  then TSB should not carry out the rework.
If TSB deducts tax from any money it pays to Mr S and Ms R in relation to reworking 
the mortgage, it should provide them with a tax deduction certificate, so they can 
reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman