DRN-2869260
The complaint
Mr M complains that he has been told by TSB Bank plc (TSB) he must pay a monthly fee 
from March 2021 for a Platinum Account (PA) he previously got for free if he maintained a 
high balance in it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says that he has maintained a high balance in his PA for many years and intends to 
continue to do so. So, he believes he is entitled to continue to receive the benefits of the 
account for free.
TSB says it wrote to Mr M in November 2020 and informed him that if he wanted to continue 
to receive the benefits of the PA, he would have to pay a monthly fee from March 2021 
irrespective of the balance in his account.
Both parties agree that Mr M did not ask for his PA to be closed and that TSB began 
charging him for it in March 2021.
Ive thought about this carefully and can understand Mr Ms feelings that as a long-standing 
customer he should be allowed to continue with the bank account terms and conditions he 
has enjoyed for many years.
However, TSB is entitled to make a commercial decision to change any account at any time, 
provided it gives suitable notice in writing. Ive looked at the correspondence TSB sent Mr M 
and he was notified well in advance and provided with options going forward.
While I understand that these were options he didnt like, he could have closed the PA if he 
wasnt satisfied, but he didnt and has continued to use it.
So, although I know Mr M will be disappointed, I dont think that TSB has done anything 
wrong in changing his account and beginning to charge for it from March 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman