DRN-2642208
The complaint
 Mr M complains Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account. He also says Revolut took too 
long to return his money to him. He wants Revolut to compensate him for the impact this had 
on him.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Revolut.
In July 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Ms account and told him it needed to speak to him about 
how he was operating his account.
  
Mr M provided Revolut with information about the payments made into his account. This 
included paperwork relating to his business and details of his business partner. Revolut 
reviewed the information Mr M provided and decided to close his account immediately in 
September 2019.
 
Revolut told Mr M that it would return the balance of his account of just over £200 back to 
source. And that he should contact the sender of the funds for access to the money. Mr M 
contacted the sender of the funds. But it said it hadnt received the funds from Revolut. 
Unhappy with this response Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator told Revolut Mr M hadnt received his money back and asked them to 
provide some evidence that this had been done. Revolut explained that it hadnt been 
possible to send the money back to source. And it hadnt contacted Mr M to seek alternative 
arrangements. Revolut told the investigator that due to an administrative error Mr Ms money 
hadnt been returned and was parked in a sundry account.
 
To try and sort things out, the investigator asked Revolut to send the money directly to an 
account nominated by Mr M. Revolut agreed but unfortunately, this didnt happen. It 
explained this was due to another administrative error. Revolut returned Mr Ms funds to him 
on 11 December 2020.
Revolut accepted it had made mistakes and hadnt returned Mr Ms funds to either the 
source or the account hed suggested. Revolut apologised to Mr M and offered him £100 
compensation for any trouble and upset hed been caused.
Mr M didnt accept Revoluts offer. He said that hed been a good customer of the bank and 
had always maintained his account properly. He also said Revolut hadnt kept him informed 
about what it was doing with his money and hed spent a lot of time trying to sort things out. 
He said the £100 compensation Revolut offered wasnt enough to reflect the amount of 
trouble and upset hed been caused.
  
The investigator didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong when it had blocked and 
decided to close Mr Ms account.  But he said Revolut had caused unnecessary delays and 
had taken more than a year to give Mr M his money back. So, he said Revolut should do 
more to put things right and pay Mr M £200 compensation in total.
Mr M and Revolut disagreed. Mr M wants more compensation and says Revolut treated him 
unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. Revolut say theyve done enough to put 
things right and the compensation suggested by the investigator is excessive. 
As no agreement has been reached the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ms account. 
I then turn to Revoluts decision to close Mr Ms account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Under the terms of the account Mr M held, Revolut are entitled to end the relationship. I can 
see that they notified Mr M on their decision, so I cant say Revolut have done anything 
wrong.
Access to funds
Revolut has already accepted it should have provided Mr M with better service when it 
returned his closing balance to him. Revolut has explained that the delays were caused by 
administrative errors. And from looking at the evidence that has been provided I accept that 
it was. 
I can see that Revolut initially tried to send Mr Ms money back to source, but when this 
wasnt successful, I cant see that Revolut contacted Mr M or tried to find out why the 
payment hadnt been successfully processed. As a result, Mr M had to spend time making 
enquiries with whod sent him the money only to find out the money hadnt been returned. 
And when he provided an alternative account, Revolut incorrectly said it had actually 
managed to send the money back to source. So, I can understand why Mr M was confused 
and frustrated. I can also see from looking at Revoluts contact notes with Mr M that he told 
Revolut on more than one occasion that he needed access to the money to buy food for his 
children. So, Im satisfied Mr M been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience by 
Revoluts delays and mixed messages about where his money actually was.
 
Revolut closed Mr Ms account in September 2109 So, it should have released Mr Ms 
money to him at that time or soon after. But Mr M had to wait until 11 December 2020  
some 15 months later, to get access to his funds. Revolut has explained that this was due to 
administrative errors. I dont think its unreasonable for such an error to lead to a few weeks 
delay. But I do think Revolut couldve released Mr Ms funds sooner than it did. And at the 
very least engaged with him to find a way forward. But I cant see that it did that. Given Mr M 
told Revolut he needed the money to pay for everyday essentials such as food for his 
children, I can see how such a lengthy delay was more significant to him.
 In summary, Ive no doubt Mr M has had an upsetting and frustrating time. And Im satisfied 
that he was put to trouble and upset having to repeatedly contact Revolut and wait more 
than a year for his funds to be released. So, I think £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Revolut Ltd should pay Mr M £200 in 
total for the delay in releasing his funds and poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman