DRN-2797662
The complaint
Mr A complains about Takepayments Limited trading as Payzone (TPL) and the charges 
they say are outstanding after he attempted to cancel his hire agreement for a payment 
terminal.
What happened
On 4 May 2017, Mr A signed a hire agreement with TPL to supply a pay terminal for an initial 
12 months. As part of this agreement, the agreement would extend for another fixed 12 
months at a time, unless Mr A gave TPL notice that he wished to cancel before the end of 
the current 12-month term.
Mr As agreement with TPL was extended for 12 months in May 2018 and 2019. In 2019, 
TPL changed their trading name, but the agreement and monthly payments Mr A paid 
remained the same.
In December 2019, Mr A contacted TPL and asked to immediately terminate the account. 
But TPL explained Mr A was still under contract. They explained he could continue to pay for 
the terminal until May 2020 and note he wanted to cancel at that point, or he could cancel in 
full that day for a charge of £220 plus VAT. Mr A was unhappy with both of these options 
and chose neither.
In January 2020, Mr A cancelled his direct debit with TPL. TPL attempted to chase Mr A 
about this but were unable to speak to him and were unable to discuss matters with his wife 
who answered at that time. Mr A didnt call TPL back and they couldnt contact him further. 
So, TPL terminated the agreement in May 2020 and defaulted the account.
There were further conversations in later 2020, but Mr A maintained his stance that he 
wouldnt pay the outstanding amount. TPL were also charging Mr A for the device as it 
hadnt been returned by this charge was waived when he returned it. But Mr A remained 
unhappy, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A complained about the charges TPL were continuing to chase. He maintained his belief 
he only entered into an initial 12-month agreement. So, he thought he shouldve been able to 
withdraw from the agreement without penalty in December 2019. He was unhappy that TPL 
had made efforts to collect the outstanding payment through the small claims court and he 
thought this was unfair. So, he wanted any outstanding charges waived.
TPL didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly and in line with the terms of the hire 
agreement when chasing Mr A for the outstanding fees. They thought theyd made Mr As 
options available to him and hed instead cancelled the direct debit which had accrued 
arrears. They thought they were entitled to chase Mr A for these, plus any additional costs 
theyd incurred chasing payment. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
A remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the terms of the 
hire agreement Mr A signed made it reasonably clear that the 12-month term would extend 
for a further 12 months if TPL werent made aware of Mr As wish to cancel beforehand. And 
she thought TPL gave Mr A fair and reasonable options on how to end the agreement when 
he called them in December 2019. As Mr A didnt take these options, and instead cancelled 
his direct debit, she thought Mr A shouldve been aware arrears had accrued on his account. 
Because of this, she thought TPL were fair to try and collect these arrears, plus any costs 
theyd incurred during their collection process. And she thought TPLs decision to waive the 
lost terminal charges were reasonable as Mr A had since returned it. So, she didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He referred to another agreement he took out with another company, who 
Ill refer to as B, who managed the payments taken through the terminal and he thought B 
were the company he needed to cancel with. So, he didnt think TPL had acted fairly. He 
also questioned the validity of the signature used on the hire agreement. He also referred to 
the change in name TPL underwent in 2019 and questioned whether they were the same 
company. And finally, he didnt think hed called TPL to discuss cancellation of the 
agreement in 2019. Because of the above, he didnt think TPL were fair to chase him for the 
fees that were outstanding. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reason as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I dont doubt Mr A 
assumed he was only entering into a 12-month contract when he took out the hire 
agreement with TPL. So, I can understand why he thought hed be able to end the 
agreement without penalty in 2019. And when TPL confirmed this wasnt the case, I can 
understand why Mr A wouldve been confused and upset, especially considering hed taken 
out another agreement for a separate terminal with another company. But for me to say TPL 
have acted unfairly, Id need to be satisfied theyve failed to act in line with the terms of the 
agreement when they informed Mr A hed need to pay out his agreement to end it early. Or, 
if this was within the terms, whether they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to address Mr As comments 
surrounding the agreement he entered into. Im aware Mr A is disputing he entered into an 
agreement with TPL. But Ive seen the agreement Mr A signed alongside his driving license 
as proof of identity, so Im satisfied he did sign the agreement. Mr A says this was signed to 
replace an existing terminal he had, but Ive seen no evidence to show thats the case. And 
in an event, I think the agreement makes it clear its for a new hire of a terminal and Id 
expect Mr A to understand the agreement he was signing before doing so.
Also, I want to address Mr As comments surrounding the call recording Ive listened to 
which contains a conversation between Mr A and TPL in December 2019. Mr A says this call 
wasnt him. But Ive seen the call came from Mr As number we have on a file. So, on the 
balance of probability, I think this call was from Mr A and Ive treated it as such.
Ive seen the hire agreement Mr A signed, which explains Duration of hire: The goods are to 
be hired for a minimum period of 12 months commencing on the Delivery Date and for fixed extended periods of 12 months each thereafter unless and until this agreement is terminated 
in accordance with the Terms and Conditions. 
And the terms and conditions explain that a customer could terminate the agreement by 
giving TPL no less that two months written notice. Ive seen no evidence to show Mr A wrote 
to TPL asking to terminate the agreement before he called them in December 2019. By this 
point, the agreement had been extended for a fixed 12-month period from May 2019 to May 
2020.
Ive listened to the call recording from December 2019. And within this call, TPL explained 
the same to Mr A. They gave Mr A two options to cancel the agreement. Mr A was told he 
could either pay out the remainder of the agreement to May 2020 and cancel it then, which 
falls in line with the terms and conditions. Or, he was told he could continue to pay for the 
terminal until May 2020, which would be more cost effective, and the handler would note Mr 
As termination at that point so the agreement wouldnt be extended any further. Mr A 
declined both of these options. So, when the call ended, I think Mr A was reasonably aware 
the agreement was still outstanding, and hed need to continue making payments.
But instead, Mr A cancelled the direct debit in January 2020. I understand Mr A says he did 
this as the company name collecting the payment changed. Its not in dispute that TPL 
changed their name at this time. But Ive seen TPL sent e-mails to the e-mail address Mr A 
provided when he entered into the agreement, confirming their name would change but any 
agreements held by customers, and the payments taken, would remain the same. 
Its not in dispute that these werent received due to the incorrect e-mail address being held. 
But I dont think TPL wouldve had any way of knowing this was the case as no bounce-back 
was received and this was the e-mail address provided when the agreement was taken out. 
So, I think they tried to make Mr A reasonably aware of this change. And in any event, I think 
Mr A wouldve been aware after his call with TPL that hed need to continue making direct 
debit payments to the agreement. And this payment amount wouldnt have changed. So, I 
wouldve expected him to query the name changed with TPL before cancelling the direct 
debit as it was for the same amount. And I cant see that he did so. 
Ive seen her wrote a letter to another company who provided Mr A with a different service. 
And having looked at all of the information, I think Mr A has become confused about which 
business provides which service for him. So, I dont think Mr A purposefully chose not to 
contact TPL. But, TPL wouldnt have been aware of this. So, Id have expected them to take 
decisions on Mr As account based on the information they had available. And in this 
situation, the only information they had was that Mr A had stopped paying for the terminal, 
and they were unable to contact him to arrange a new payment method.
As TPL couldnt arrange a new payment method, when Mr A cancelled his direct debit, his 
account began to accrue arrears. Because they were unable to arrange a new payment with 
Mr A, they took the decision to default the account and close it. I dont think this was an 
unreasonable action for TPL to take, as it prevented Mr As arrears continuing to build. And 
Ive seen after defaulting the account and ending the agreement, TPL struggled to speak to 
Mr A to arrange payment of the arrears. 
So, they began their collection process to recover the arrears and the terminal. And this 
incurred further costs. Ive seen TPL have waived the costs of the terminal, as Mr A has 
since sent this back and I think thats a fair action for TPL to take. But the arrears remain 
outstanding and TPL have taken steps to try and obtain this payment. I think Mr A shouldve 
been reasonably aware a payment would be due so I dont think I can say TPL have acted 
unfairly by adding their collections costs to the outstanding amount Mr A owes them.So, I think Mr A shouldve been reasonably aware he would need to continue with his hire 
agreement, or make a payment, if he wished to cancel the agreement early. Mr A didnt do 
this and by cancelling his direct debit, I think he breached the agreement he entered into. 
So, I dont think TPL have acted unfairly by chasing Mr A for the arrears he accrued and any 
additional costs that have been incurred as TPL have followed their collection process. 
Because of this, I dont think TPL need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I can appreciate this decision 
will have a financial impact on Mr A and its something Ive thought about. But my decision is 
made from an impartial viewpoint, ensuring its fair to both parties. And for me to say TPL 
should waive the fee, Id need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. And I dont 
think they have on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Takepayments 
Limited trading as Payzone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman