DRN-3072648
The complaint
Mr B complains that after his account with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) was closed and the
debt sold, payments made to the account were forwarded on to the debt collection business
that BoS sold the debt to. Mr B says the money shouldve been returned to the sender.
  
What happened
Mr B sent us evidence that his BoS account was closed on 21 October 2013. He said that
some small payments made long after this had been redirected to the debt collection agency
that his debt had been sold to. Mr B thought the money shouldve been sent back to where it
came from. He has told us that these payments have led the debt collection agency to say
that he has acknowledged this debt. He didnt think BoS shouldve passed this money over.
BoS sent us evidence of its internal procedures, which set out how payments made into
accounts which have been the subject of a debt sale will be transferred to the business who
bought the debt.
BoS said that it had received two payments to Mr Bs account long after the account was
closed, £10 on 19 December 2017 and £25 on 29 August 2018. Both of these payments
were transferred by BoS to the debt collection business that BoS had sold the account to.
BoS said that it hasnt been the owner of the account since 2014, so it cant keep hold of any
payments which credit this account. BoS said Mr B hadnt been in touch when either of these
payments were made, and if he had, it wouldve asked him to contact the debt collector, to
ask for the money to be returned. BoS said Mr B could still do that if he wanted to.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that BoS had followed
its own internal process, and she didnt think it had made a mistake.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that BoS was illegally forwarding money to other organisations
when it had no business doing so. He said the money shouldve been returned to the
sender. Mr B said that the sender should get their money back, and he should get
compensation.
As no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr B ran up a debt on his account with BoS, which he wasnt able to clear. So, in 
2013, BoS sold the debt to a third party. I think that when BoS did that, it was closing 
Mr Bs account, under the terms of the agreement he had with BoS.
BoS says that the payments into the account, since the debt was sold, dont belong 
to it, and it has passed them to the third-party debt collection agency it sold the debt 
to. But the terms of Mr Bs account do set out what should happen to payments 
which are later made into an account that has been closed. The terms say this 
15.8 - If someone sends a payment to your closed account, we will take 
reasonable steps to return the payment to the sender.
I havent been able to identify any term of the account which permits BoS to use 
payments which are made into a closed account, to cover the debt which was on the 
account when it was closed. I note that BoS has a right of set-off, but I dont think that 
a right of set-off both survives the closure and sale of the account, and in addition 
trumps the express provision on returning money to a third-party sender. I think that 
in this instance, passing this money on to the debt collector rather than trying to pass 
the money back to the sender instead, was a mistake.
I expect that, if the money was passed back, then the sender would most likely have 
paid Mr B a different way. So Mr B didnt get £35, which he would otherwise have 
had.
I can see Mr B has derived some benefit from this money, because it has been used 
to reduce his overall debt. But I also have to bear in mind that Mr B has told us he 
cant pay the rest of the debt. So a limited reduction in a debt that Mr B cannot 
otherwise clear, does seem to me to be of very little practical benefit to Mr B. And my 
current view, on balance, is that this money should not have been used in this way. 
For that reason, I think BoS should pay Mr B the £35 that was paid into his account, 
now.
Mr B also says that he hadnt been making payments, and indeed hadnt even 
spoken to the debt collector for some time. So it looks like the debt was quite old, and 
Mr B was trying to get it reduced. He may even have been seeking to argue that it 
was statute barred. But he says that these payments are being used by his debt 
collector as evidence that he has acknowledged this debt, and as a result, the debt 
collector is refusing to accept a smaller settlement amount. For that reason, I think 
that these two payments have caused Mr B some distress and inconvenience, so I 
think that BoS should pay Mr B £50 in compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS said that it would make the payments Id suggested to Mr B. 
BoS said it acknowledged that the outcome of this complaint wouldnt affect money held by 
the new owner of Mr Bs debt, and that my decision didnt require it to do anything to 
influence how the new debt owner is handling this debt. BoS said it was happy to pay 
compensation of £50 compensation to acknowledge the consequences of it passing on the 
£35, which I had described in the provisional decision. 
It is correct to say that Im not requiring BoS to contact the new debt owner in this case, and 
my decision is limited to the payment of compensation. Mr B wanted to say that he had contacted the third party, and it had said it would not, under 
any circumstances, refund the money. He didnt know if the person who originally sent the 
money had followed up since.
Mr B said that the effect on his life of these small payments being passed over in his name 
has been significant, aside from the time hed spent trying to put this right. So Mr B wanted 
me to tell BoS to pay more compensation. And he wanted me to tell Bos to contact the third 
party to explain that the payments made were wrongfully made in my name.
Mr B then wrote again to say the original offer from BoS was that it would reduce the amount 
due with the third party by approximately £160, and it had sent him a cheque for £200.
I think that the offer Mr B refers to here was made in a letter dated 12 November 2020, and it 
was made because BoS felt, looking at the conduct of his account before it was closed, that 
it shouldve closed his account sooner. I dont think this offer was made because BoS felt it 
owed this for passing on Mr Bs payments to the new debt owner. I can see that this letter 
said Mr Bs complaint on this point wasnt upheld. 
I understand that BoS has reduced Mr Bs debt by £106.30, which is in line with its offer, and 
sent him a cheque for £200. If Mr B hasnt yet cashed that, then it may no longer be valid, 
and if not, then he can ask BoS to reissue it.
I do understand that Mr B would like more compensation for this issue. But I dont think that I 
can hold BoS solely responsible for the problems that Mr B has told us he experienced after 
these payments were made. So I wont ask it to increase compensation in this case.
Mr B also wanted BoS to tell the new debt owner that these payments were wrongfully made 
in his name. I think that my decision makes clear that this is my finding. But I dont think that 
BoS has to contact the new debt owner about this. Thats because Mr B can show this 
decision to the new debt owner, to explain the circumstances in which these payments were 
made, if he wishes.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Mr B £85 in total, made up of the £35 
that was paid into his account, and £50 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman