DRN-2621285
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires (BoS).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 1988, and then bought the PPI policy in 1991  they 
said as the result of a letter from BoS. Mr and Mrs H said they felt pressured into taking the 
policy, but didnt need it. BoS had no record of the method of sale, so had considered Mr 
and Mrs Hs complaint on the basis that the PPI sale had taken place in a branch and that it 
had recommended the policy for Mr and Mrs H. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs H. They 
said the monthly premium at the point of sale was £32.50, which would suggest a monthly 
benefit of around £500. This was split between Mr and Mrs H, as this was a joint policy. If 
they had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS couldnt provide copies of any documentation from the point of sale  although this is 
not surprising as the mortgage was repaid in 2012, and businesses are not required to keep 
records indefinitely. However, it was able to send us copies of computer records of Mr and 
Mrs Hs mortgage account, including some call notes from 2005/6 and 2010 relating to 
possible claims on the policy, and sample copies of PPI information booklets. 
Mr and Mrs H couldnt provide a copy of the letter to which they said they responded in 
1991, but referred to other mailings about PPI and sent in an extract from one theyd 
received in 1989.
I have considered what they said about feeling pressured into taking the PPI  they referred 
to time limits for response in the letters, and to the tone of the wording, describing it as 
alarmist (for example the extract they sent in was headed Remember - you only have a few 
days left to protect your mortgage  and home and referred to a previous mailing a few 
weeks earlier). 
I dont have a copy of the letter from 1991, to which they said they had responded by taking 
out the PPI, so I dont know how it was worded. But on the basis that it was similar to the 
one they sent in, I can see that it was strongly encouraging recipients to consider taking the 
PPI. Set against this, it was addressed to the homeowner  so wasnt personalised to Mr 
and Mrs H. And they had taken their mortgage out around two and a half years earlier 
without PPI, so I think it wouldve been clear that they didnt have to have it. I also think they 
could reasonably have contacted BoS to discuss any concerns they had about the cover 
and Ive no evidence to suggest they did. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs H said, but on balance, I dont think I can fairly 
say its most likely that they were pressured to take out the PPI, which is what Id have to do 
to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that 
this is what happened. 
As Ive no evidence that there was any contact with a BoS representative at the time of the 
sale, I cant see that there was an opportunity for a personal recommendation to be made. 
Mr and Mrs H said that the suitability of the policy wasnt checked  and theyve referred to 
unsolicited letters offering the PPI, so it seems that these were general mailshots rather than 
personalised information. So I dont think they were advised to take out the PPI  and 
therefore BoS didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for them. But it should still 
have given them enough information for them to make an informed choice.
As Ive said, I dont have a copy of the mailing that Mr and Mrs H received in 1991, so I cant 
say what policy information they wouldve been given. BoS sent in sample copies of PPI 
information leaflets, and I think its likely that something similar wouldve formed part of the 
mailing, rather than the full policy document. But its not clear that all of the terms and 
conditions would have been fully explained. 
Both sample leaflets include details of the main exclusion and limitations  although I cant 
see that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of these. The leaflets also include the 
cost per £100 benefit, so I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve had some idea of the cost for them. 
And based on their information about their circumstances at the time, theres nothing to 
suggest it was unaffordable for them. 
Mr and Mrs H said that Mr H wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay, and that Mrs Hs sick pay entitlement from 
her employer was two weeks full pay followed by two weeks half pay. They said they had 
some savings they could have relied on, and would also have received redundancy 
payments if either had lost their job. They also mentioned life cover, but this would not have 
paid out in the same circumstances. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but having considered all of the evidence and arguments 
in this case, I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the 
PPI had BoS fully explained the terms and conditions. The policy provided useful benefits 
which would  notwithstanding the employment benefits and savings they mentioned  help 
them manage the consequences were either to be made redundant, or be unable to work 
through accident or disability. And in any case, I think Mr and Mrs H could reasonably have 
wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on their home. So on balance, 
I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman