DRN-2689031
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a personal possessions 
claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has travel insurance as a benefit of her packaged bank account.
Mrs M had been abroad between October 2019 and March 2020. She noticed that there was 
damage to her glasses towards the end of her trip. But she said that due to Covid-19 
restrictions in the UK, she hadnt been able to visit an optician until October 2020. At that 
point she replaced her glasses and made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the 
replacement costs. 
Aviva turned down Mrs Ms claim. It said that given the time thatd elapsed between Mrs Ms 
return from abroad and her making the claim, it couldnt be satisfied whether the damage 
had happened during her trip. It acknowledged that it mightve been difficult for Mrs M to visit 
her optician sooner than she had. But it felt she couldve let it know about the damage and 
that she intended to make a claim far earlier than October 2020.
Mrs M was unhappy with Avivas decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She noted that the policy 
terms required a policyholder to let Aviva know as soon as possible if they become aware of 
circumstances that might lead to a claim. She felt that Mrs M ought to have got in touch with 
Aviva sooner to let it know about her damaged glasses, even if she couldnt visit her 
optician. So she thought it was fair for Aviva to turn down the claim.
Mrs M disagreed. She said her claim was genuine and shed told Aviva why she hadnt 
made the claim earlier.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
policy terms and the circumstances of Mrs Ms claim to decide whether Aviva treated her 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mrs Ms contract with Aviva. 
The general conditions section of the policy includes the following term:
You must tell us as soon as possible after becoming aware of any legal proceedings, 
summons, prosecutions or any other circumstances which may lead to a claim under this 
policy. You must send us every communication relating to a claim as soon as reasonably 
possible.
I think this term makes it clear that policyholders must tell Aviva as soon as possible if they 
become aware that theyll need to make a claim. Mrs M says that she noticed the damage to 
her glasses towards the end of her holiday  which wouldve been around the time she 
returned to the UK in March 2020. But its common ground that she didnt get in touch with 
Aviva to make a claim until late October 2020  around seven months after shed returned. I 
think Mrs M wouldve known when she noticed the damage that shed likely need to get her 
glasses repaired or replaced when she returned to the UK. So I think shed have most likely 
known that shed need to claim on her travel insurance policy.
Its a policyholders responsibility to provide enough evidence to show they have a valid 
claim on their policy. In this case, because Mrs M made her claim so many months after she 
returned from the UK, Aviva didnt think shed provided enough evidence to show that the 
damage had happened while she was on her trip. Travel insurance only provides cover while 
a policyholder is on a trip. It isnt designed to cover damage which happens once a 
policyholders returned home. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to want to be satisfied 
that the damage to Mrs Ms glasses had happened while she was abroad. 
I appreciate Mrs M says she delayed making a claim until October 2020 because her 
optician was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and she couldnt get her glasses replaced 
until that point. And Aviva accepts that Mrs M may not have been able to visit her optician 
until then. But it considers that Mrs M couldve let it know about the damage to her glasses 
far earlier than she did. And I dont think this was an unreasonable conclusion for Aviva to 
draw. I dont think Mrs M has given a persuasive reason why she didnt let Aviva know about 
the damage far sooner than she did and put it on notice that she was intending to make a 
claim once her optician reopened. This means I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to decide 
that Mrs M hadnt shown, on balance, that she had a valid claim on her policy.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Ms position, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down her 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman