DRN-1554479
 
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Avantia Insurance Limited has declined to pay a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr R took out a home insurance policy with Avantia. This included taking 
out additional cover for a dirt bike, for which he paid an additional premium. It was also 
specified on the insurance schedule.
Mr R was burgled and the dirt bike was stolen. When Mr R tried to claim for the dirt bike on 
his home insurance policy, Avantia told Mr R that it didnt cover motorised vehicles and that 
it said this in the policy terms. It therefore declined the claim and offered to refund the 
additional premium charged.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that it 
wasnt clear in the sales journey that motorised vehicles werent covered and that it hadnt 
explained clearly that these werent covered. She said Avantia should consider the claim in 
line with the terms of the policy and pay Mr R £100 for trouble and upset.
As Avantia did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avantia has consistently argued that it doesnt insure motorised vehicles. It has also argued 
that the sales process via its website is clear and that the website clearly states, at various 
points in the process, that it doesnt insure motorised vehicles. I have looked at its policy and 
its online quote process and can see that is correct. However, while this service was looking 
at this complaint, Avantia identified that Mr R actually used a price comparison website to 
find a home insurance policy. Mr R also confirmed that this was the case.
Avantia provided details on what Mr R was likely to have been asked by the price 
comparison website and then when he was transferred to Avantias website. On the price 
comparison website, as part of the process of generating insurance quotes, a particular 
screen allows a customer to specify valuable items worth more than £1,500 that they want to 
insure. In this instance, Mr R specified that he wanted to insure a dirt bike for the sum of 
£2,500. When quotes were generated by the price comparison website, he then selected 
insurance via Avantia, which took him through to Avantias own website to complete the 
purchase. The quote page it took Mr R to on the Avantia website didnt specify that it didnt 
cover motorised vehicles. On Avantias website it listed some assumptions that Mr R had to 
read and agree to in order to proceed with the quote. This didnt say anything about 
motorised vehicles. When Mr R accepted the assumptions, this then took him to a screen 
that specifically listed that he wanted to add cover for a high-risk item and that this was a dirt 
bike with a value of £2,500.
On the basis of the above, I think that it is very likely that the combination of the majority of 
the detail for the quote being generated on a price comparison website and Mr R then being 
transferred to Avantias website to complete the process meant that he didnt see any of the 
warnings or disclaimers about Avantia not insuring motorised vehicles. So I dont think Mr R 
had any reason to think that Avantia didnt provide insurance for his dirt bike. Mr R was also 
charged an additional premium to insure the dirt bike and was sent policy documents, and 
renewal documents, that prominently showed that the dirt bike was insured, which will have 
reinforced that view.
I am aware that the Contents section of Avantias policy documents said that it didnt insure 
motorised vehicles. However, I dont think Mr R would have had any reason to think that this 
applied in his situation. In part because the dirt bike was listed on his policy document and in 
part because a different section of the policy applied  the one on Specified Items. That 
section didnt say that motorised vehicles werent covered.
I also asked Avantia why it had issued documents to Mr R stating that he was insured for a 
dirt bike when it didnt provide insurance for this. Avantia said this information was normally 
added by the customer in a free text box. It said this meant that a customer could write 
anything in that field, but it still didnt mean Avantia insured that item. Avantia said it relied on 
customers to provide accurate information and that if incorrect information was identified at 
the claim stage, it refunded the premium paid for that cover.
Ive thought about this carefully. Avantia seems to be saying that it had no process, or 
responsibility, for checking that it actually provided insurance for an item specified by a 
customer. Avantia also seems to be arguing that because the policy wording said motorised 
vehicles werent covered, this outweighed all indications to the contrary. This is despite it 
calculating and charging a premium for Mr Rs dirt bike and sending him documentation to 
confirm there was cover in place. It was only when Mr R made a claim he was told he didnt 
actually have insurance, as it seems this was the first time that Avantia actually checked 
what Mr R had added as an item on his policy. By this point, Mr R had no option to look for 
insurance elsewhere and yet was told he couldnt claim on the insurance that he had good 
reason to think was in place. I dont think that is fair or reasonable and I dont think the way 
to remedy the situation was to simply offer to refund the premium. Refunding the premium 
didnt address the underlying issue that Avantia left Mr R with no insurance when he needed 
to make a claim, despite having clear reasons to think he was insured
On the basis of the above, I think Mr R had strong reasons to think that his dirt bike was 
insured by Avantia and that he had no particular reason to question this in advance of his dirt 
bike being stolen. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that, despite Avantia not insuring motorised vehicle as part of its home 
insurance policies, I require it to consider the claim. It must also pay Mr R £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience of his claim being declined.
I am aware that Avantia offered to refund the premium paid for insuring the dirt bike. If the 
premium was refunded, it needs to be repaid to Avantia. This is because for the claim to be 
dealt with the insurance policy needs to be reinstated, which includes payment of the 
premium. So, if Avantia refunded the premium, it should be deducted from any settlement.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Avantia Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mr Rs claim for the dirt bike in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
for an insured high risk item. Avantia can recover the premium, if it was refunded, from 
any settlement it makes for the claim.
Pay 8% simple interest* on the claim amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by his 
claim being declined.
Pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Avantia Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman