DRN-2535595
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on 
his breakdown repair policy. Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr I holds a breakdown repair policy with Acromas. When his car broke down, he made a 
claim to Acromas to assist with the cost to repair it.
Acromas declined his claim. It said Mr Is policy covered him for sudden and unexpected 
breakdowns. It said an independent engineer it arranged to inspect the car thought the likely 
cause of the damage was wear and tear. And it said as the damage occurred over time, it 
wasnt a sudden and unexpected breakdown and wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr I disagreed and complained to Acromas. He provided a report carried out by a garage of 
his choosing which said the damage wasnt caused by wear and tear but was caused due to 
excessive heat and friction.
Acromas maintained its decision not to pay Mr Is claim, so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint and thought it wasnt fair that Acromas 
said the breakdown wasnt sudden and unexpected. She thought it was unlikely that Mr I 
noticed anything different in the way the car was performing and that when his car broke 
down, this was likely the first time he realised there was a problem with it.
Acromas understood and accepted this this, but still didnt think it needed to pay Mr Is claim. 
It said there was a general exclusion in the policy that said it didnt provide cover for faults 
which existed prior to the policy being taken out. And it said the engineers report indicated 
the fault with Mr Is car was present when he took out the policy.
Our investigator looked into this new reason not to pay Mr Is claim and thought it was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. She thought the report Acromas instructed stated the 
damage was present when Mr I took out the policy, and she didnt think the report Mr I 
provided indicated otherwise. She thought on this basis, Acromas were acting in line with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Is policy when not paying this claim.
Mr I disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes said he doesnt agree with 
the findings in the report Acromas instructed. He thinks the engineer who carried out the 
report didnt inspect the fault well enough to make the findings that they did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint. I understand this wont be the answer he 
was hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Im not going to explain whether or not I think Mr Is car suffered a sudden and unexpected 
breakdown. The reason being is that all parties now agree that it did. As this is no longer in 
dispute theres no need to comment on it - its not the reason Acromas arent paying Mr Is 
claim. What is in dispute, is whether or not the fault was present when Mr I took out the 
policy and if it was, whether its fair for Acromas to decline his claim because of this.
Mr Is policy with Acromas says Acromas wont pay for the cost of any repairs following a 
mechanical failure if the faults existed prior to the purchase of this cover. So if the fault did 
exist prior to Mr I taking out the policy, the terms clearly explain this wouldnt be covered. 
And looking at the engineers report carried out, it states the conditions would have been 
highly developed at policy inception, in light of the time and mileage elapsed since that time 
and later the conditions were developing at policy inception.
I understand Mr I doesnt agree with the findings made in that report, but its not the role of 
this service to question the competency of the engineer who carried out it out. Engineers can 
reasonably be seen as experts in their field and as such I find it reasonable that Acromas 
rely on their findings. Whats more, Ive not seen evidence to suggest this finding is incorrect. 
I understand Mr I has said the engineer who carried out the report hes sent in doesnt think 
that the fault was present when Mr I took out the policy, but hes not shown us evidence of 
this. At the time Mr Is car broke down it had travelled over 91,000 miles. But considering it 
had travelled just 431 miles between him taking out the policy and his car breaking down, I 
think its more likely than not that the fault was present at the point he took the policy out.
Based on the above, I think Acromas is acting fairly and in line with the policy terms when 
declining Mr Is claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman