DRN-4190599
The complaint
Mr C complains Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to protect him from the loss of 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr C has explained that in 2021 he was tricked by scammers into 
making payments from his Wise account to a Coinbase account in his name  and then 
moving the money on from there to the scammers for what he thought was a legitimate 
investment. The relevant payments from Mr Cs Wise account were as follows.
Date Amount (£)
22 March 2021 4,005.32
26 March 2021 120.32
21 April 2021 5,000.32
03 May 2021 1,200.32
04 June 2021 400.32
07 July 2021 400.32
Total 11,126.92
Mr C later got in touch with Wise to report hed been scammed. Wise didnt reimburse Mr Cs 
lost funds, and Mr C referred his complaint about Wise to us. One of our Investigators looked 
into things and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr C remained unhappy, so the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our Investigator. 
Im sorry if Mr C lost money to scammers but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a 
refund from Wise. It would only be fair for me to tell Wise to reimburse Mr C if I thought it 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered recovery of 
the funds.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr C authorised the relevant payments. Wise would generally be expected to 
process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as 
a matter of good industry practice Wise should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many 
payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a 
payment service provider to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to 
be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. 
In this case Wise didnt pause any of the payments, pending enquiries with Mr C, before 
allowing the payments through. And Im satisfied the payment instructions werent sufficiently 
unusual, uncharacteristic or otherwise suspicious, to say it was unreasonable for Wise to 
process them without questioning Mr C about them first. The payments werent all on top of 
each other; they were reasonably spread out. The first payment for £4,005.32 and the third 
payment for £5,000.32 were quite a bit larger than the rest. It wasnt like Mr C made 
payments of around £4,000 to £5,000 all the time. But he had made a payment before of 
around £4,300, and another payment of around £2,500. And I think bearing in mind Mr Cs 
account history; also the balance Ive mentioned that needs to be struck to minimise 
disruption to legitimate payments; Im not persuaded I can say these payments ought to 
have appeared so unusual, uncharacteristic or otherwise remarkable or suspicious to Wise, 
to say it reasonably ought to have been obliged to have intervened in them before following 
Mr Cs instructions to send them. This means Im not persuaded Wise unreasonably missed 
an opportunity to prevent the payments nor, therefore, Mr Cs loss of the payments to the 
scam, before they were sent.
Recovery
Mr C didnt instruct Wise to send the payments directly to the scammers. Instead the money 
was sent to Mr Cs Coinbase account first. I dont think it was ever likely Wise would be able 
to facilitate recovery of the payments after Mr C moved the funds from his Coinbase account 
to the scammers. So Im satisfied I cant hold Wise responsible for Mr C being unable to 
recover his funds. 
I realise this means Mr C is out of pocket. And Im sorry if he lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Wise to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman