DRN-3468739
The complaint
C complains that the Direct Debit for its loan repayments wasnt switched over when it
moved its account from National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to another bank.
C is a business which is represented in this complaint by Mr R. For ease of reading, Ill refer
to all actions and submissions as having been made by Mr R.
What happened
Mr R had a business current account and a business loan account with NatWest. There
were a number of Direct Debits set up on the current account. In January 2021, Mr R
switched the current account to another bank, which Ill call S. He understood that all the
Direct Debits would automatically transfer to S. But the Direct Debit for the loan repayments
wasnt switched over, causing the next loan repayment to be missed.
Mr R also says he couldnt access his NatWest online banking after the switch. He says he
wasnt told this would happen and needed access so that he could complete his tax returns.
Mr R complained to NatWest in March 2021. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the
timing of the switch-over was too close to the loan repayment date for the Direct Debit to be
included in the switch. Regarding the online banking facility, it said that Mr R couldnt expect
to retain access to this after hed left NatWest. NatWest also said that Mr R hadnt made any
payments to the loan account since the switch. It said it had tried to contact him about the
arrears but didnt get a favourable response.
Mr R wasnt happy with NatWests response and brought the complaint to this service. Since
then NatWest has explained that, because of a known internal error, it has to manually
transfer Direct Debits for NatWest loans. This wasnt done in Mr Rs case. NatWest said that
Mr R should have received a letter telling him that he needed to set up a standing order from
his new account with S for the loan repayments. But it cant confirm that this letter was sent.
Our Investigator didnt think NatWest had acted fairly and recommended that it pay
compensation of £100 to Mr R for its mistake in not telling him he needed to set up a
standing order. Following further discussions with our Investigator, NatWest said that when
Mr R restarts payments to the loan account, it will also refund all arrears interest and remove
any adverse reporting about the loan from Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R wasnt happy with this suggestion and didnt think compensation of £100 was enough.
He said it wasnt until he referred the complaint to this service that NatWest admitted it had
made a mistake. He said it had previously implied that the fault was his. He said hed been
told by NatWests complaint manager that no interest or other charges would be applied to
his account while it was in the complaints system. So he said these shouldnt have been
applied in the first place. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2022. I provisionally decided that NatWest should 
pay Mr R compensation of £300, refund all arrears interest and any charges applied to the 
loan account from February 2021 onwards and ask the Credit Reference Agencies to 
remove any adverse data reported about the loan from February 2021 onwards.
Mr R didnt accept the provisional decision. NatWest agreed to the proposed compensation, 
but it wanted the arrears on the loan account to be addressed. It suggested that the arrears 
interest should be removed and the credit file data updated upon Mr R clearing the arrears 
but not before. It said that the loan repayments had remained payable each month 
throughout this complaint and that making the adjustments once the arrears are paid off 
would put Mr R back in the position hed have been in but for NatWests mistake.
Mr R didnt agree to that proposal. He said that hed been told by NatWest that it wasnt 
advisable for him to continue making the monthly loan repayments while the complaint was 
ongoing. He doesnt accept that there are any arrears on the account.
I have liaised with the parties, trying to seek a workable solution to the issue of the 
outstanding loan balance. NatWest says it cant re-age the loan account, so I cant direct it to 
do that. Mr R suggested a new loan to pay off the old debt and start afresh. NatWest agreed 
to create a new loan which would repay the old one. It proposed that the new loan amount 
would be the total amount outstanding under the original loan, that the monthly repayment 
would be the same and the interest rate would be the same. In effect, it said that there would 
be no difference to Mr R from the original loan other than the duration would go on beyond 
the original term. 
Mr R didnt agree to that. He questioned whether the amount of the new loan would include 
interest or any other late payment charges. He didnt want to keep the same interest rate 
and wasnt happy with the way the arrangement would be reported on his credit file. And he 
thought that NatWest should pay him compensation of £1,500.
As the parties havent been able to reach agreement, Im now making a final decision about 
this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that the Direct Debit for the loan repayments wasnt switched over to Mr Rs
new account. NatWest has confirmed that it knew it needed to manually transfer this Direct
Debit. It didnt do so. It has also confirmed that it should have written to Mr R to advise him
to set up a standing order. It didnt do so. So Im satisfied that NatWest made mistakes here.
When Mr R complained to NatWest, it didnt identify these mistakes. Instead, it said the
reason the Direct Debit hadnt transferred was because the switch was too close to the loan
payment date. Its now clear that this wasnt the reason. So the information in NatWests final
response letter was incorrect. That was a further mistake by NatWest.
Mr R feels strongly about this and says that NatWest deliberately tried to cover up its
mistake and blamed him for the Direct Debit not transferring. Having read NatWests letter, I
can understand why he feels there was an implication that it was his fault. I think the letter 
could have been worded better. But I havent seen any evidence that NatWest deliberately 
tried to conceal its mistake.
I find it more likely that the incorrect information in the final response letter was a mistake
and that it was only when the complaint was looked into further (following the referral to this
service) that the real reason for the problem with the Direct Debit was discovered. I dontthink this was intentional, but it did add to the distress and inconvenience for Mr R.
The best way for NatWest to put things right now would be to pay Mr R compensation
to recognise the impact of these mistakes. Having thought about everything again, I also 
think it needs to take some steps in relation to the loan account.
The effect of the Direct Debit not transferring was that the loan account fell into arrears. Mr R
thought the Direct Debit would be transferred along with his other Direct Debits and he had
no reason to think otherwise. So he cant reasonably have been expected to have done
anything differently in relation to the switch over. Therefore, I dont find it to be his fault that
the loan payment was missed following the switch.
When Mr R became aware there was a problem, he complained to NatWest. That was in
March 2021. I dont think it was unreasonable that he didnt make any payments to the loan
account while he had an active complaint with NatWest. At that stage, he thought the Direct
Debit should have transferred and thought NatWest was at fault. So it was reasonable for
him to expect that the issue would be resolved with the investigation of the complaint.
NatWest responded to the complaint in May 2021 and Mr R indicated his intention to refer it
to this service. The contact notes provided by NatWest confirm that Mr R was told in a phone
call on 18 May 2021 that his account would be placed on hold and that a further hold would
be applied when he provided a reference number from this service. Mr R called back and
provided the reference number on 2 June 2021.
NatWests notes confirm it told Mr R that interest and charges would continue to accrue on
the loan. But it said it would look at this if the complaint was resolved in his favour. The notes
also confirm that Mr R wanted to set up a payment plan in May 2021, but NatWests adviser
told him that doing so might adversely affect his case and she didnt recommend it.
Ive asked NatWest some more about this since issuing my provisional decision. It 
acknowledges that the account was on hold but says that this doesnt stop a customer from 
making payments and it doesnt stop arrears building up because the contractual 
requirement to make monthly payments remains. I understand that position. 
But NatWest has now been able to locate recordings of two phone calls it had with Mr R at 
the time. So Ive listened to those and thought again about what Mr R says he thought would 
happen to his account. NatWest says that the conversation was about the arrears, not the 
ongoing monthly payments, but I dont think thats clear from the phone conversation and it 
certainly wasnt explained to Mr R in that way.
Mr R said during the call that it would be sensible for him to make some sort of payment 
even though the complaint was ongoing. The call handler then sought advice from a 
colleague about the effects of setting up a payment plan. But Mr R hadnt suggested or 
asked for a payment plan and he wasnt party to that discussion. When the call handler 
came back to Mr R, she said it wasnt a good idea to put a plan in place as the Financial 
Ombudsman Service might view that as acceptance by Mr R of NatWests response to his 
complaint. She said she would put a hold on the account which would remain in place until it 
was resolved. She also said that interest and charges would accrue during that time, but that 
NatWest would look at those if the complaint were resolved in Mr Rs favour.
In the circumstances, I find it understandable that Mr R didnt think he needed to make 
payments until the complaint was concluded. And he wasnt told that this could have adverse 
consequences for his credit file. So I dont think its fair if NatWest has reported adverse 
information to the Credit Reference Agencies. I also think that NatWest should remove 
interest on the arrears and any charges relating to the arrears.Mr R doesnt accept that there are arrears on his account. But Im satisfied that there are 
arrears and I dont think that in itself is unfair. The loan agreement requires repayments to be 
made every month, so that the loan can be concluded within the agreed term. Although I 
dont think NatWest explained the situation clearly to Mr R, Im satisfied that nothing was 
said about the loan term being extended. So it follows that each month a payment wasnt 
made, arrears built up further. 
I understand the reason why Mr R hasnt made the monthly payments. But that didnt mean 
they werent falling due. It was just that NatWest wasnt chasing him for payment. And Mr R 
knew at the time of the conversations that there were already some arrears on the account, 
due to the mistake with the Direct Debit. So, unless the account is brought up to date, it will 
remain in arrears. Im going to ask NatWest to remove the interest on the arrears. So the 
amount overdue will be no more than what Mr R would have paid if hed been making the 
contractual monthly repayments since 2021.
I think NatWest should refund all the arrears interest and any charges applied to the loan
account from February 2021 onwards. And it should ask the Credit Reference Agencies to
remove any adverse data reported on the loan from February 2021 onwards. This should not
be conditional upon Mr R recommencing loan repayments, because I think the interest and 
credit file impact are attributable to NatWests mistakes as outlined above.
But if the account remains in arrears after the existing data is amended and existing arrears 
interest has been removed, all new credit file entries will report that there are arrears 
because that is the factual position and Mr R is now fully aware of the situation. Its possible 
that interest could also be applied to any arrears which remain outstanding going forward. 
So, if Mr R wants to ensure that there is no adverse reporting of the loan and no arrears 
interest going forward, he will need to re-start the repayments now and come to an 
arrangement with NatWest about the arrears.
Turning to the amount of compensation, Mr R says the situation has caused him distress, 
upset and humiliation as well as having an impact on his business. I realise he feels very 
strongly about the complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont think compensation 
above £300 is warranted here. I havent seen evidence of any specific detriment he has 
suffered because of entries on his credit file. So I think any negative impact will be largely 
rectified by the adverse entries being removed. Im also mindful that Mr R has some 
responsibility to try and mitigate any losses he may have suffered and I havent seen any 
evidence of that. I think a compensation payment of £300 would be fair here, to reflect the 
mistakes NatWest made. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont find that NatWest made any mistake by 
withdrawing Mr Rs access to its online banking facility and I dont think its unreasonable 
that the facility is no longer available to Mr R. So Im not going to ask NatWest to do anything 
about that.
NatWest offered to create a new loan. Im not going to direct it to do that and, in any event, 
Mr R didnt agree to that proposal. But I think it was a fair suggestion on the part of NatWest 
and a practical way of dealing with the arrears on the account. If Mr R wishes to pursue the 
offer of a new loan, to coincide with the existing arrears interest being removed and the 
adverse entries being removed from his credit file, he should liaise with NatWest and I would 
urge both parties to try and reach agreement around this issue so that the account can be 
brought back on track. I would encourage Mr R to contact NatWest about the arrears in any 
event.  My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should:
pay Mr R compensation of £300;
refund all arrears interest and any charges applied to the loan account from February
2021 onwards; and
ask the Credit Reference Agencies to remove any adverse data reported about the
loan account from February 2021 onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman