DRN-2622784
The complaint
Mr S complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motorhome 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a motorhome insurance policy with Highway on 17 November 2019.
A few days later, Highway said the information given to them during the application process
didnt match the information theyd found on a central database called the Claims and
Underwriting Exchange. So, they contacted Mr Ss broker for further information and to give 
the options for Mr S to pay an increased premium or cancel the policy. 
Highway said Mr S hadnt disclosed two previous claims from October 2017 and July 2019. 
Mr Ss broker reviewed his latest renewal document and it showed two previous claims from 
October 2015 and January 2017.
The broker says that when they contacted Mr S about this, he confirmed there were previous 
claims but wasnt sure on the dates and told them he would contact his previous insurer. 
Whilst a 7-day cancellation notice was issued to Mr S, Highway confirmed the policy 
remained active whilst they completed the investigation.  
Highway say they chased this response up in December 2019 and following another 7-day 
cancellation notice, the policy was eventually cancelled on 25 December 2019. Highway say 
this is because the broker had not had a response from Mr S. They also say that no refund 
was issued to Mr S because a new claim was recorded as having occurred on 1 December 
2019, during the period which this policy had remained active pending investigation. 
In May 2020, Mr S complained to Highway. He felt hed given the necessary information to 
his broker and the policy should have continued. He was also unhappy with the service hed 
received from the broker and that no refund of premium had yet been issued to him. 
Highway stated that it was confirmed that there were three incidents within the 35 months 
prior to the policy being taken out, which is not acceptable under the policy underwriting. 
However, Highway agreed to cancel Mr Ss policy following notice and return a pro-rata 
refund of premiums to him  rather than avoiding the policy  as a gesture of goodwill. This 
was however, subject to the outcome of the open claim from 1 December 2019. 
Mr S wasnt happy and raised a complaint. But Highway maintained theyd acted fairly by 
following their underwriting criteria. Mr S brought his complaint to our service for an 
independent review. 
The investigator thought Highway had acted fairly. She said that whilst there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the policy had remained active so as to investigate a new claim 
and this was in the interests of Mr S. She also confirmed that the pro-rata refund of premium 
had been paid and Highway confirmed this included them not taking any administration fee. 
She confirmed that if Mr S was unhappy with the service provided by the broker or the 
delays regarding the December 2019 incident, he would need to raise these separately.
Mr S didnt accept this. He didnt agree that the policy had been cancelled fairly and said he 
had disclosed the previous claims. He was also unhappy that when obtaining new insurance, 
there was now a higher premium being asked of him. So, its now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a customer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show they would have offered the policy
on different terms or not at all if the customer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Highway thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
he didnt disclose three previous claims when taking out the policy.  
Highway have provided the question on the website when Mr S applied for the policy which 
asked:
Have you or any additional drivers been involved in any motor vehicle accidents, claims or 
losses (including fire, theft or vandalism), irrespective of blame and whether a claim was 
made or not, or had any motoring convictions, including fixed penalty offences, in the last 5 
years?
They have also provided the question from the statement of fact which was sent to Mr S to 
confirm. It asked the following:
Have there been accidents, incidents, claims or losses (including fire and theft), irrespective 
of blame and whether a claim was made or not, during the last five years in connection with 
any motor vehicle owned or driven by you or any person who to your knowledge will drive?
There was also a Duty of Disclosure statement which sets out that the information, 
statements or answers made by Mr S to the broker or insurer must be correct. And that any 
failure to disclose facts material to the insurer may invalidate the insurance cover in part or in 
whole.
Mr S answered no to both of these questions. I think these were clear questions that Mr S 
ought to have known the answer to. I also think that Mr S ought to have known how 
important it was to answer them correctly. However, they were both still answered no and 
although Mr S says that the claim details were input, I havent seen any further evidence of this. So, I am persuaded that Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.  
Highway have provided a copy of their underwriting criteria to show they would have acted
differently had Mr S disclosed these three claims and Im satisfied that they would have 
never offered Mr S the policy. So, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
In December 2019, Mr Ss broker confirmed that he provided them with confirmation of his 
claims history which showed three incidents - in October 2017, January 2018 and July 2019. 
Whilst I appreciate this information was therefore given, the misrepresentation at the 
application had already happened and Highway have confirmed they wouldnt have 
proceeded with the policy. 
Highway have not categorised this matter as a misrepresentation, as they cancelled the 
policy with seven days notice instead. Having kept the policy active to consider the 
December 2019 claim, notified to Highway whilst they were investigating the 
misrepresentation. Although under CIDRA, Highway were entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy 
(treat it as if it had never existed) and return premiums, I think they acted fairly and in the 
interests of Mr S by instead cancelling the policy with notice and returning a pro-rata refund 
of premiums  once the claim was settled. They have also not deducted any administration 
fees from this refund, as a gesture of goodwill, which I see as a positive for Mr S. 
As Ive explained, Highway could have gone further and avoided Mr Ss policy, which
could be considered worse for Mr S, as then hed have an avoidance on his record, as
opposed to a cancellation. And if the policy had been avoided, and the December 2019 
claim been paid, Mr S wouldve been liable for it. As his policy was cancelled instead it 
meant he remained on cover, and therefore not in breach of his legal obligation to have 
motor insurance. In the circumstances, I dont think its appropriate for me to tell
Highway to remove the cancellation from Mr Ss record.
I accept my decision will disappoint Mr S as hes told us about the impact this has had on 
him getting other insurance. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont require
Highway to do anything further as part of this complaint. My decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Ss dispute with Highway  can do for him.
Im aware Mr S remains dissatisfied with how the broker treated him and how Highway dealt 
with the December 2019 claim. These will need to be considered separately.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman