DRN-2796001
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, complains about advice he received in 1989 from a 
representative of Hill Samuel Investment Services Limited to set up a pension and invest in 
its managed fund. 
Hill Samuel is now part of Phoenix Life Limited. 
What happened
Mr H completed a fact find with Hill Samuels representative on 14 February 1989. Amongst 
other things, it recorded that Mr H was 47 with a retirement age of 70. His income was 
£14,000 pa but his current income for the year the advice was given was £20,000. He had 
no other pension arrangements and no pension from his employer was available. 
An application form was completed and submitted on 8 September 1989, with a 
commencement date of 23 October 1989. Mr Hs contributions were to be £133.33 gross 
pm. He made monthly contributions of £100 from 23 October 1989 to 23 November 1990, at 
which point the contributions were reduced to £10 per month until 23 August 1991. Following 
this there were variations in the amount contributed before contributions stopped entirely in 
July 1993. Mr H took his retirement benefits in November 2012, at age 70.
Mr H complained via his representative in December 2019. Mr Hs representative said Mr H 
had little or no experience of pensions and had accepted the advice as being in his best 
interests. He now receives £63.07 pm from an annuity. That income didnt increase and so 
its purchasing power was reduced each year by inflation. Mr Hs representative referred to 
the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Authority) rules and to the advisers 
common law duties. Investment costs were also mentioned.  
Mr Hs specific complaint was that all of his contributions had been invested in a single, 
complex and high cost managed fund. That was unsuitable due to the lack of diversification. 
Mr Hs contributions should have been spread across different funds to reduce risk. Mr H 
had been subjected to unnecessary fund costs. In particular, an annual management charge 
(AMC) of 6% had been applied.  
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr H didnt have any other pension provision 
at the time he took out his policy. A need for retirement planning was identified and the 
personal pension was an appropriate vehicle for him to save for retirement. Mr H wouldve 
been given a product brochure and a technical details document. The latter contained details 
of all the available funds and the charging structure. Hed also have been given a personal 
illustration, indicating the potential returns at his selected retirement age, assuming certain 
growth rates and that contributions were maintained. 
It was a unit linked policy and, as such, values werent guaranteed. The amount payable at 
retirement would depend on the performance of the fund to which the policy was linked. The 
documentation highlighted that. The policy was invested wholly in the managed fund, which 
is suitable for an investor with a balanced attitude to risk. Mr H wouldve got annual benefit 
statements throughout, detailing the fund, the number of units and the fund value. He 
couldve reviewed his fund selection at any time. 
The complaint was referred to us. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
But he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary he said that a personal 
pension was suitable for Mr H. The managed fund was in line with Mr Hs attitude to risk and 
was sufficiently diversified. The charges were set out and werent excessive. The AMC 
wasnt 6% pa. 
Mr Hs representative said Mr H didnt accept what the investigator had said and requested 
an ombudsmans decision, making the following points:
Hindsight wasnt needed to understand that diversification between different funds, 
managed by different fund managers, substantially reduced the risk of a poor long 
term return. Diversification has always been good practice.
A simple portfolio of 50% equities and 50% bonds returned about 360% between 
1993 and 2012  a gain of £3,600 for each £1,000 invested. Mr Hs failure to 
maintain the originally planned contributions wasnt the reason for the poor return. 
The managed fund wasnt a fund of funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and the reasons he 
gave. 
Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution rule) 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The advice was given in 1989. I agree that the adviser had responsibilities under common 
law (including not making negligent misstatements; to disclose all material information; and 
to advise with reasonable skill and care). But he was also bound by the LAUTRO code. It 
encompassed the common law duties and imposed higher requirements. So, in the main, 
Ive concentrated on the code. 
The overriding principle was that company representatives were required to exercise due 
skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also required company 
representatives to give best advice. That included giving the investor all relevant 
information and using best endeavors to enable the investor to understand the nature of any 
risks involved and only recommend contracts which were suited to that investor.
As the investigator noted, the advice was given in 1989 and the information available from 
the time is limited. Where, as here, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Id also point 
out that, over the years, regulatory requirements have changed. For example, at the time, 
there was no requirement to issue a suitability report or undertake an assessment of Mr Hs 
attitude to investment risk. Im determining Mr Hs complaint based on the prevailing 
circumstances at the time. I agree that a personal pension was appropriate for Mr H. A need to begin saving for 
retirement had been correctly identified. Mr H was 47 at the time and had no other pension 
arrangements. And hed confirmed that his employer didnt offer a pension scheme. 
I also agree with the investigator that details of the costs and charges were provided to Mr H. 
And that, as the investigator explained, he wasnt paying a 6% AMC. I dont think what Mr H 
was charged was excessive. I dont think the advice was unsuitable simply from a charges 
perspective. 
Mr Hs representatives response has focused on the what it sees as the lack of 
diversification resulting from Mr Hs contributions being invested in a single fund  the 
managed fund. 
I agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is generally regarded as 
good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading 
money across different types of investments and assets classes means, if one holding 
performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may do better and so the 
risk of an overall loss is reduced. So I can see the argument that investing in a single fund 
may not be prudent. But it will depend on the fund itself. 
As the investigator noted, we cant refer to any fund fact sheet (that would set out basic 
information about the fund, including its objectives, what its made up of, costs and how it 
has performed over a particular period). But from the information Ive seen Im satisfied that 
the managed fund was diversified. 
The brochure entitled, A Private Income Plan for You, said that contributions could be 
invested in any one or more of thirteen funds which, starting with the managed fund, were 
listed. And, about the managed fund, the brochure said:
By far the largest Fund is the Pensions Managed Fund which seeks investment 
opportunities across all the major markets. These include shares in the UK and overseas, 
property, fixed interest stocks and cash deposits in leading currencies.
I note that the Private Income Plan  Technical Details brochure said that contributions 
could be allocated to any one or more of fifteen funds  the Hill Samuel Pensions Investment 
Trust and the Hill Samuel US Smaller Companies funds had been added. The brochure also 
said that units already allocated to one fund could be switched, in whole or part, to one or 
more other funds. Charges could apply.
 
The funds and their portfolios and aims were set out. The managed fund was described as a 
broad-based fund with investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed-interest stocks, index-
linked securities and cash. It invests both directly and via Hill Samuel Lifes other pension 
Funds. The aim of the Fund is to provide capital growth with the minimisation of rise through 
a wide portfolio spread.
I think how the managed fund was described, with the express aim of minimising risk by 
holding a very broad range of different investments and asset classes, indicates that the 
fund was diversified. It may not have been a fund of funds in the technical sense but what I 
think the investigator meant was that it was spread in investments across a wide range of 
assets, including UK and overseas company shares, government bonds, property and 
currencies. 
Looking at the other investment funds offered, many were somewhat specialised. I accept 
that diversification could have been achieved by investing over a range of funds. But I think 
that would have been complicated and was unnecessary when the managed fund offered diversification, albeit within a single fund. I consider the managed fund was convenient and 
sufficiently diverse. Another adviser might have recommended something different. But that 
doesnt mean that the advice Mr H was given was unsuitable. 
Mr Hs representative has said that Mr H wouldve done better if hed invested in a portfolio 
of 50% UK equities and 50% UK bonds. With hindsight, it may be that his investment may 
have performed better had it been invested differently. But I dont think investing all of his 
contributions in the Managed Fund was inappropriate. So, it isnt the case that Mr H has 
suffered a financial loss resulting from poor advice. 
I dont agree that the managed fund was too complex for an investor such as Mr H. I think 
even relatively inexperienced investors would be able to understand the descriptions of the 
fund that were given. It was a unitised fund and that created some complexities such as 
understanding the bid offer spread pricing. But I dont see that made the fund unsuitable for 
Mr H. 
I think the adviser met his responsibilities and recommending that Mr H set up a personal 
pension was appropriate, as was investing all of Mr Hs contributions in the managed fund. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman