DRN-2352129
The complaint
Mr S complains as a director of T, a limited company, about how Zenith Insurance Plc 
(Zenith) settled a claim on Ts commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2020, Ts vehicle was stolen and couldnt be recovered. Mr S contacted Zenith on 
behalf of T to make a claim.
Zenith looked at the estimated market value for the vehicle, and offered a cash settlement of 
£10,980 (minus the policy excess). Mr S disputed the valuation, and so Zenith referred the 
claim to one of their engineers to review. Following a review of the motor trade guides, 
Zeniths engineer agreed the valuation was reasonable.  
Mr S still disagreed with the valuation and complained to Zenith. He said the settlement 
offered wasnt enough to purchase a new like for like vehicle. He provided Zenith with some 
examples of similar vehicles that he had found at a higher cost than they had offered. Zenith 
responded to the complaint maintaining the settlement offered, and said it had settled the 
claim in line with the policy terms. Mr S was unhappy with Zeniths response and referred the 
complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint. He said the settlement offered by Zenith was in 
line with the motor trade guides and so he didnt uphold it. Mr S disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to value the vehicle. What I need to do is consider whether Zenith settled the 
claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms. In order to consider this, Ive 
looked at the policy terms, the offer Zenith made and how it decided on the amount.
Ts policy says that if the vehicle cant be repaired, the most Zenith will pay towards the 
claim is the market value immediately before the loss, which is defined as the cost to replace 
the vehicle with one of the same or similar make, model, year, mileage and condition which 
applied immediately before any loss or damage.
Our usual approach to complaints about vehicle valuation is to look at motor trade guides for 
valuing second-hand vehicles. I find these figures persuasive because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and refer to advertised auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account the specifications 
of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage. 
Mr S provided Zenith with a number of adverts for similar vehicles from various dealerships. 
Hes said these show T couldnt buy another vehicle with the offered settlement. But listings 
can include a mark-up on price, and quite often a vehicle may end up selling for less than its 
advertised for. So I dont find these as persuasive as the motor trade guides.
Having checked three motor trade guides for the value of the vehicle at the time of the loss, I 
can see theyve produced the following valuations: £10,623, £10,980 and £11,548 
respectively. 
Zenith have offered £10,980, which is in line with the average value given by the trade 
guides. So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Zenith offered a fair amount for the market 
value of the vehicle, as outlined in the policy terms. 
Zenith has settled the claim in line with the policy terms and in my judgment the way it dealt 
with the claim was fair. So I dont think it needs to offer anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman