DRN-2217028
The complaint
Mrs K complains that delays to a claim she made on a legal expenses insurance policy 
provided by Aviva Insurance Limited left her without legal representation.
What happened
Mrs K holds legal expenses insurance with Aviva. Handling and administration of claims on 
the policy are handled by a representative for Aviva. Where I reference Aviva in this 
decision, it includes this representative who was in contact with Mrs K.
Mrs K made a claim on the policy on 21 April 2020, as part of a dispute about property 
management fees. She told Aviva that a tribunal required representations to be made by 18 
May. She complained on 6 May that Aviva were taking too long to assess the claim and she 
would be unable to be properly represented. She was also unhappy with the way the claim 
was being handled. 
Aviva confirmed on 2 June 2020 that there was no cover for Mrs Ks claim. Counsel had 
reviewed the information provided by Mrs K and concluded that the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. The policy says a claim will not be covered in these 
circumstances.
Aviva responded to Mrs Ks complaint on 4 June 2020 saying it hadnt unnecessarily delayed 
the claim and had acted in accordance with the policy terms. 
Mrs K referred her complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. Mrs K 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably reject a claim 
Mrs Ks policy provides cover for the type of claim she was making, but only where the claim 
has prospects of success  in other words, that its more likely than not she would win her 
case. So before agreeing to provide cover, Aviva needed to assess the prospects of 
success. Id generally expect an insurer to obtain legal advice on this, and its reasonable for 
them to rely on that advice unless its obviously wrong.
Mrs K made her claim on 21 April. To assess the claim, Aviva had to arrange the 
assessment of prospects and, if cover was to be provided, arrange for legal advisers to 
prepare representations on her behalf. All of this needed to be done before 18 May, which 
was 16 working days after she notified Aviva of the claim. 
Mrs K provided further information on four occasions between 23 April and 1 May 2020. 
After reviewing this, Aviva concluded this was a continuation of a previous claim. On 6 May 
Aviva asked its legal advisers to obtain a counsels opinion from the same counsel who had 
been asked to provide an assessment of the first claim. The same day, Aviva changed its 
position slightly, saying this matter would be considered to be a separate claim, as the other 
party to the proceedings was different in the two claims. But it still asked counsel to consider 
the prospects of success and whether cover should be provided for both claims.
I can understand that Avivas change to saying it was a new claim may have caused some 
confusion. But it made sense to ask counsel to deal with them together, as they would have 
been familiar with the substantive issues across both claims.
Aviva passed the matter to its legal advisers within two working days of Mrs Ks last email 
with information. On 13 May, Aviva told Mrs K that counsel was going to assess the two 
linked claims, and made a number of queries of Mrs K. From what I can see, Mrs Ks contact 
with Aviva up to and beyond 18 May covered various legal points and gave her opinion on 
the merits of her case, but didnt respond to Avivas queries. 
Looking at the sequence of events, I dont think Avivas actions delayed the claim being 
confirmed before the deadline for representations to the tribunal. It took action promptly and 
arranged for legal advice on prospects. I appreciate Mrs K disagrees with the legal advice. 
But this was a reasoned opinion from a barrister who was experienced in that area of law. In 
the circumstances, it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on that advice
Im also aware that the tribunal later ruled in Mrs Ks favour. The prospects assessment 
could only be done on the evidence available at that point. The fact that someone goes on to 
win their case doesnt mean the assessment made at the time was wrong  a case thats 
considered unlikely to win can still be successful (just as one thats considered likely to be 
successful might later be lost). 
Mrs K says she should have been able to appoint her own solicitor, in line with the policy 
terms which say If court proceedings are issued, there is a conflict of interest or if we 
consider the claim to be complex and requiring a specialist lawyer, you are free to choose 
your lawyer And policyholders generally have a right to choose their own lawyers in these 
circumstances. But this only applies where cover is provided under the policy. As the legal 
assessment was that her claim didnt have reasonable prospects, she wasnt entitled to 
cover. So the right to choose her own solicitors didnt apply. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman