DRN-3607570
The complaint
Ms M, Ms M and Mr M complain about the price that BUPA Insurance Limited has charged 
them for their personal private medical insurance policy. 
As Mr M represents Ms M and Ms M, Ive referred to him throughout this decision for 
simplicity.
What happened
Mr M held a BUPACare private medical insurance policy, which was taken out through a 
broker. Mr Ms policy was registered care of his brokers address in a town Ill call C. At 
renewal in September 2020, Mr Ms policy cost £10,282.80.
During February 2021, Mr M let BUPA know that he was living in a city Ill call L. At this point, 
the premium remained unchanged. However, at renewal, Mr Ms renewal price increased to 
£21,006.60. Mr M was unhappy with the price increase and he complained to BUPA.
Mr M let BUPA know that his main address was in a town Ill call E. So BUPA recalculated 
Mr Ms premium, using his new address. This reduced the annual price to £16,532.54. It 
maintained that this premium was correct. BUPA told Mr M that the main reasons for the 
price rise were down to his age; location, rising healthcare costs and insurance premium tax 
increases.
But Mr M remained unhappy with BUPAs response and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She explained that were not 
able to tell BUPA how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover that risk. 
But she was satisfied that BUPA had shown the main reason for the increase in premium 
was because of the change in Mr Ms address. So she didnt think the evidence indicated 
that BUPA had treated Mr M unfairly.
Mr M disagreed. In summary, he felt thered been no transparency or justification from BUPA 
in explaining the price rise. He didnt think that a change in postcode from C to L could 
warrant such a large increase in premium. He felt a 10% per person per year price rise due 
to age increase would be fair and reasonable. And he referred to the fact that people in C 
can make use of private facilities in L, despite paying lower premiums.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that this decision 
will only consider whether BUPA has treated Mr M fairly when it calculated his renewal price. 
Whilst I understand that BUPA and Mr M disagree as to whether BUPA was aware that the 
address in C was Mr Ms brokers address and therefore a care of address, I dont think this 
is material to the outcome of this complaint and so I wont be considering this specific point 
here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think BUPA has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Ms. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, claims relating to Mr M, Ms M and Ms Ms health). And if it does, what price it 
needs to charge for that. 
So BUPA will have assessed the risk of Mr M, Ms M and Ms M needing to make a claim 
when they first joined the BUPACare scheme and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If 
it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because the risk-profile has increased or 
because health care costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. So in 
complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the 
premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr M, Ms M 
and Ms M have been treated in the same way as any other BUPA customer in similar 
circumstances and havent been singled out in any way. 
Its clear that at the 2021 renewal, Mr Ms premium increased significantly  both when the 
premium was calculated using the L address and when later, the E address was taken into 
account.  So I can understand why Mr Ms worried that BUPA hasnt treated him reasonably. 
BUPA has provided me with commercially sensitive, confidential information to show how 
the renewal prices in 2021 were calculated. Im afraid that Im unable to share this 
information with Mr M, although I appreciate that Mr M would like to see this information and 
have a chance to respond to it. But I hope it reassures Mr M to know that I have considered 
this evidence carefully. 
What I am able to tell Mr M though is the main reason for the price increases. In this case, in 
2020, BUPA was using an address in C to calculate Mr Ms premium. In 2021, BUPA was 
first using an address in L and then in E to calculate the price. Both L and E are some 
distance from C, albeit relatively close to one another. As BUPA told Mr M, the cost of a 
policyholders treatment can be more expensive dependent on where a policyholder lives. 
And in my experience, treatment in L often costs more than in other areas. BUPAs evidence 
clearly shows the impact the change in Mr Ms address had on the annual premium he was 
charged for cover. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPAs treated Mr M, Ms M and Ms M in the same 
way it would any other policyholder who held a BUPACare policy in similar circumstances to 
their own. So I cant reasonably say its treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M, Ms M and 
Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman