DRN-3068498
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Soteria Insurance Limited undervalued her car after it was damaged in 
an accident and that it sold the car against her wishes.
What happened
Mrs T had a motor insurance policy with Soteria. Her car was damaged when someone 
reversed their vehicle into it when it was parked outside Mrs Ts house. Mrs T claimed on her 
insurance.
Soterias engineer considered that the car was written off (in other words, beyond economic 
repair). Soteria valued Mrs Ts car at £3,118. It offered to pay Mrs T that amount minus the 
policy excess. But Mrs T believes this is a significant undervaluation, and that her car was 
actually worth £6,500. Shes told us the amount which Soteria has offered her isnt enough 
to buy a car of the same specification, mileage and condition.
Mrs T told Soteria that shed like to buy the car back. She says she made it very clear that 
she didnt believe that the damage to the car was enough to deem the car a write-off, and 
that the car was worth more to her than the write-off value. 
Mrs T says Soteria assured her that she could have the car back. But a week later, Soterias 
salvage agent sold it. Mrs T found out about this when she discovered through the DVLA 
that someone else was registering the car. Shes unhappy that the car was sold against her 
wishes.
Soteria accepts that the car shouldnt have been sold. And its apologised to Mrs T for the 
upset that this caused her. It offered to pay Mrs T £500 by way of apology. But Mrs T doesnt 
consider that to be enough to reflect the trouble she experienced.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ts complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary, he thought Soterias valuation of the car was fair, based on the values shown in 
the industry guides. And he thought the £500 Soteria had paid Mrs T to apologise for the 
upset she experienced when the car was sold was fair too. 
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Like the investigator, Ive confined my consideration of the complaint to the issues raised 
about the valuation of the car and the compensation Soteria has offered Mrs T to apologise 
for the upset she experienced when the car was sold against her wishes. I havent 
considered Mrs Ts complaint about the length of time taken to deal with the claim. 
I understand this is being raised with the broker which introduced Mrs T to the company 
which handled the claim.
My role isnt to place a value on Mrs Ts car. Instead, I need to decide whether Soterias 
settlement figure is within a fair and reasonable range, and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So my starting point is to look at the policy wording. 
The policy provided that Soteria wouldnt pay more than the market value of the vehicle at 
the time of the loss. This is a term we see in most motor insurance policies.
Market value is defined in the policy document as:
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, 
age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage 
happened.
Establishing the replacement cost of a vehicle isnt an exact science. Its usually possible to 
find adverts for cars for sale for a significantly higher price than someone would actually 
have to pay if they shopped around.
We think the fairest way for an insurer to decide the market value of a vehicle is to look at 
the main motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we 
may think its reasonable to ignore it.
Soteria obtained the following valuations from the trade guides:
£2,980: Glasss
£2,678: Cazana
£3,118: CAP
The figure it offered Mrs T was the highest of those figures, minus the excess payable on her 
policy.
We also obtained valuations from the trade guides. These were:
£2,980: Glasss
£2,601: Cazana
£3,095: CAP
Soteria used what we consider to be the fairest way of establishing the market value of 
Mrs Ts car. And the valuation it placed on the car was the highest of the three valuations it 
got. And that was more than the highest of our valuations. So Im satisfied that Soterias 
valuation of Mrs Ts car is fair.Mrs Ts policy allowed Soteria to take over and deal with any claim as it saw fit. We see this 
type of term in most motor insurance policies. Soteria got a report from its engineer, who 
considered that the damage to the car meant that it was beyond economic repair. I dont 
consider that it was unreasonable of Soteria to rely on its engineers opinion. 
Where an insurer settles a motor insurance claim as a total loss, the general position is that 
the car becomes the insurers property once the claim has been settled. The insurer may 
decide that it is willing to allow the policyholder to buy the car back. 
Soteria has acknowledged that it was aware that Mrs T wanted to keep her car. And Ive 
seen nothing to make me think there was any reason why it wouldnt have agreed to this. 
Whats more, the car was sold before the claim was settled. This shouldnt have happened.
I sympathise with Mrs T. I can understand how upsetting it would have been to discover that 
her car had been sold even though shed made it clear to Soteria that she wanted to keep it. 
But I cant punish or fine a business. Ive explained that Im satisfied that Soteria offered 
Mrs T a fair market value for the car, in line with its obligations under the policy. That ought 
to enable Mrs T to buy a car of similar value. Soteria has apologised to Mrs T. And its 
offered to pay her £500, to reflect the upset caused. I consider thats reasonable. If Soteria 
hasnt yet paid those amounts to Mrs T, it should now do so. But Im not satisfied that I can 
fairly require it to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman