DRN-3544015
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B have complained that esure Insurance Limited failed to repair damage from a 
water leak in a reasonable amount of time.
   
What happened
Mrs and Mr B held a home insurance policy with esure which covering both buildings and 
contents. 
On 12 July 2021 Mrs B made a claim on the policy after a water leak affecting the bathroom, 
kitchen and conservatory. Mrs B was around 6 months pregnant at the time.
 
Esure appointed loss adjusters and a first visit took place on 16 July 2021 and drying was 
completed by 11 August 2021. 
Loss Adjusters attended again on 20 August 2021 and completed a scope of works. Mrs B 
told them she was anxious to get the repairs done as soon as possible because of her 
pregnancy. 
 
Esure wrote to Mrs B on 25 August and advised that there was likely to be a delay of 6-8 
weeks before the repairs commenced because of the difficulty getting contractors and 
material due to the pandemic. However, Mrs B confirmed she would rather wait for them to 
complete the work as she would have difficulty sourcing her own contractors for the value of 
the proposed alternative cash settlement. 
Mrs B had her baby in early November, and the work had still not been started. 
Electrical work was completed at the beginning of December and the building work was 
eventually started on 24 January 2022. It was completed in early February, with some 
snagging issues, and the hall floor still to be replaced.   
In January Mrs B had complained about the delay and esure issued their final response on 5 
April 2022. They explained that they had warned there would be significant delay due to 
contractor shortages and that they had offered the cash settlement to help alleviate this. 
They also said that they had undertaken additional work such as the rewire which was 
outside the scope of the policy as a gesture of goodwill to help conclude the claim. However, 
taking everything into consideration, they understood the frustration that had been caused 
and offered £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs and Mr Bs complaint and he thought that e 
sure should pay an additional £200, bringing the total amount for the trouble and upset to 
£450. 
Mrs and Mr B felt that this assessment was too low, and esure were not prepared to accept 
this recommendation, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of esures claim notes which include those of the loss adjusters, and also 
the testimony of Mrs B, and Im upholding this complaint for the reasons below.
  
Mr B made it clear to esure from the outset that she didnt want a cash settlement because 
she was heavily pregnant with a small child, and she didnt have the time or energy to sort 
out the repairs herself. This is recorded by e sure on 20 August and on 25 August she is 
written to by the claims handler who tells her that repair contractors have been appointed 
and they currently have long lead times so it could be between 6-8 weeks before work is 
started.
 
This means that she should have been expecting work to start around the middle to the end 
of October. I dont think that this delay was unreasonable given the situation at the time with 
trying to get contractors post pandemic, and Mrs B was made aware of that delay, so she 
was able to make a choice.
 
At the end of September, Mrs B raised a complaint about the delay and about the loss 
adjusters not authorising £70 for her light fitting when she had had no light in her kitchen for 
over 2 months. Following her complaint, the light fitting was authorised, and the loss adjuster 
was directed to make contact to discuss next stages. She was also given an interim payment 
to cover the cost of the additional electricity from the dryers, the damaged towels and 
vacuum cleaner.
There was then a further delay caused by an issue with the electrics. The electrician who 
was engaged to fix the light fitting identified that the kitchen electrics werent earthed and 
remedial work would be required to bring the electrics up to standard in order for them to be 
able to issue a certificate for the electrical works. As this additional work was outside the 
scope of restoration work it required approval.  
Mrs B was advised about this by esure on 24 September 2021, and also told that it would 
still be at least 4 weeks for the repairs to be started. As an alternative, she was offered a 
cash settlement of £3062 if she could find her own contractors. However, this was still within  
the original 6-8 week timescale that esure had indicated.  
 
Mrs B responded that she would rather wait for the contractor as she had spoken to three 
builders and they all wanted substantially more than the offer. She had also previously 
mentioned that she was having difficulty getting builders to do any jobs for her.
The loss adjusters agreed a way to resolve this electrical issue in October 2021. So at that 
point, at the end of October, esure were still within the time limit of their original estimate for 
starting the repairs, and within the time scale that Mrs B had been made aware of, and was 
expecting, so I dont think that despite the issues up until this point, there is any additional 
distress caused above and beyond that which would be expected as a result of having to 
make a house insurance claim.    
At the beginning of November Mrs B had her baby, and the costs for the work were 
approved. The contractor was advised by esure on 12 November to schedule a date for 
commencement of work.  The electrical works were commenced, and largely completed by the beginning of 
December, but they required removal of the flooring to complete the work, and this had not 
been scheduled in. 
 
Mrs B raised a further complaint at the end of January and work was finally started on 24 
January. 
Overall I think there was some avoidable delay between around the middle of November and 
the end of January. Esure and their contractors were well aware of the scope of the work 
that was needed from the outset, and even with the addition of the electrical work, it could 
have been scheduled in once that was agreed in October, especially given that Mrs B had 
made esure aware of her pregnancy and impending birth. I also think that although I can see 
there was a lot of e mails back and forth between the contractor and the loss adjuster, Mrs B 
was not given the weekly update she had been promised after her first complaint. 
I think the inconvenience caused by the delay is compounded as Mrs B had a newborn baby 
from the beginning of November, and was trying to manage that alongside chasing the 
contractors, and living in a property that was in need of repair, which was stressful. I 
appreciate that the timing unfortunate, but as I have said above esure originally indicated an 
and of October start and Mrs B was expecting that. She made a decision about whether to 
take a cash settlement on the basis of that time estimate, but instead, the repairs were 
outstanding for most of the winter.   
 
Mrs B has raised some further issues that caused her concern, including the inconvenience 
of the drying machine in her hall, the painting in the conservatory not being completed and 
the hall floor and alarm not being accounted for in the original scope, even thought they were 
identified at the outset as being issues.
  
I agree with esure that the dryer is an unavoidable inconvenience of an escape of water as 
were the holes created in the ceiling for the wiring to be repaired. I also accept that there will 
be issues and damage not noticed at the outset of the claim which come to light during the 
works  such as the electrics in this case. 
However, it appears from the evidence that the hall floor was identified as having high 
moisture in the initial assessment, and the alarm was advised to be disconnected, so these 
were issue of which esure were always aware, and could have been resolved earlier. 
   
In view of the circumstances of the avoidable delay which I have outlined above, together 
with the lack of communication, and the failure to include the hall floor and the alarm in the 
original scope, I agree with the investigator that the offer of £250 should be increased to 
£450 which I think is a  fair figure for the distress caused. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think that esure should pay a total of £450 for distress an inconvenience. 
They have already paid Mrs and Mr B £250, so they should pay an additional £200. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to put things 
right as above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman