DRN-1348911
The complaint
Mr E complains about the actions and behaviours of Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale). His 
complaints involve many issues which include, but are not limited to, the giving 
incorrect/improper advice, negligence, fraud, and the commencement of proceedings 
against him. He also has an additional complaint that some of his correspondence with 
Clydesdale was not answered. 
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr E and Clydesdale so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
Mr E had business dealings with Clydesdale between 2006 and 2009. Clydesdale granted 
an overdraft facility to Mr E during that time, which he believes he was pressured into and 
was not suitable for him. Mr Es broad intention was to purchase a property and convert it 
into residential care accommodation, then either sell it or operate it as such. In 2009 
Clydesdale made a formal demand for repayment of the Mr Es borrowings, ultimately 
resulting in the appointment of an LPA receiver. In consequence Mr E estimates he has lost 
a significant sum of money. 
Mr E complained to Clydesdale but they rejected the majority of it because part had 
previously been addressed, and part had been brought out of time. Clydesdale did however 
accept that Mr E had written to them in July and August but said they never received 
those letters. They did accept they had received letters sent in October and November but 
they said they had responded to them within 8 weeks. 
Mr E was unhappy with Clydesdales response and so the investigator looked into it but 
came to the conclusion some of the complaint was out of time. This was because some of 
what Mr E was complaining about happened more than six years from when he complained 
to Clydesdale, and as he had raised his concerns with Clydesdale in 2009, he had also been 
aware of the problem more than three years, and so he was out of time. Also some of the 
matters Mr E was complaining about had already been dealt with by this service.
The investigator didnt feel that Clydesdale had acted unfairly with regard to the issue of the 
correspondence it hadn't received from Mr E, because once it had received Mr Es letters it 
responded within the correct time frame. As Mr E didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered very carefully what Mr E has said. And having done so, Ive decided I cannot 
consider his complaint. I understand this is very disappointing news for Mr E, so Ill explain 
why.
I must first make clear Ive not looked into the allegations Mr E makes because before I can 
even consider the merits of his complaint, I first need to decide if his complaint is one our 
service has the power to consider.
Mr E has complained that Clydesdale implemented repossession proceedings in a 
questionable manner. This complaint though has already been dealt with by our service on 
the 19 October 2011 under reference number: CRUW/09-001008. I cant therefore deal with 
this as its already been dealt with.
The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), which form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook, (financial services' regulator), govern what we can and cant consider. As part of 
this, one of the things I have to consider is whether the complaint was brought in time. DISP 
2.8.2 states:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received; unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
Applying this rule, its clear that Mr E had raised his concerns with Clydesdale in 2009. As 
such he was aware of the problem more than three years ago, and his complaints (listed 
below) fall outside those time limits. 
Improper advice given from the very inception of the lending facility
An improper assessment taken of his financial status
Incorrect decision in approving an overdraft to someone of his status
No checks made on his financial credentials
Rushed to sign the overdraft form, whilst failing to advise him of the financial 
consequences
Manipulated the property valuation
 
Turning to the other parts of his complaint, Im also not allowed to consider a complaint 
which is referred to us more than six months after the date the final response letter is sent, 
unless the business consents, which in this case it doesn't. Factually, Mr E was given final 
response letters between August and September 2009 regarding the complaints listed 
below, but he did not bring his complaint to us within 6 months and so on the face of it he is 
out of time for those complaints listed below.Wrong footed him on operational matters  i.e. whether to sell or operate the 
business
Engaged in fraudulent and unprofessional negligent behaviour
Insufficient time given to sell the property
Prohibited from taking on service users
 
But I do have discretion to disregard the time limits if there are exceptional circumstances 
that might have prevented a complaint from being brought in time. I have noted that a 
considerable period of time has now passed, and although Mr E has made mention of 
mental health difficulties he has not provided any evidence or further information to show 
how these difficulties would have prevented him bringing the complaint to us. So, I'm afraid 
that other than what I have considered above, Mr E hasnt provided any other potentially 
exceptional circumstances for me to consider. And Ive seen nothing else to suggest they 
apply.
Turning finally to the complaint of Clydesdales failure to reply to Mr Es correspondence, I 
do believe Mr E when he says he sent it, since I have no reason or evidence upon which to 
disbelieve him. The issue is whether Clydesdale received it and then did nothing with it. 
Clydesdale says they didnt receive it and I have no reason or evidence to disbelieve them 
either. And when they did receive the further letters in October and November they 
responded within the 8 weeks set by the FCA. So in that respect they have responded 
properly and I cant say they acted unfairly.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided the majority of Mr E's complaint is out 
of our jurisdiction and/or has already.been dealt with. And for the remaining part of Mr E's 
complaint I don't think Clydesdale have done anything wrong and so I'm not upholding his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman