DRN-2445981
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly
turned down his business interruption insurance claim after his business was forced to
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B holds a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. Mr B claimed on his policy 
after his business was required to close due to the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19.
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, Mr Bs business had closed as a result of the Government
Act in response to the national pandemic. As there was no indication that anyone at Mr Bs 
premises had Covid-19, RSA turned down Mr Bs claim.
As Mr B was unhappy with RSAs response and thought RSA should pay his claim, he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He
thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at
the premises. And as Mr B had confirmed the closure was due to the Government
Act in response to the national pandemic, rather than because of a case of Covid-19 at the
premises, the claim wasnt covered. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair, as the policy doesnt specifically exclude cover for pandemics. 
He said there would likely have been a case of Covid-19 at the premises if his business had 
stayed open and it was only being closed that prevented that. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr Bs business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr Bs claim. 
The most relevant part of Mr Bs policy covers loss as a result of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this term covers Mr Bs claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on Mr Bs premises to have 
been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. Mr B 
has confirmed that he closed the premises as a result of the Governments response to the 
pandemic, rather than because there was a case of Covid-19 at his premises. So, the policy 
doesnt provide cover. 
The policy doesnt specifically have an exclusion for pandemics, but that doesnt make a 
difference because there isnt a term that would provide cover for the claim. 
While I recognise that the closure of the business may have prevented a case occurring at 
the premises later, unfortunately this doesnt satisfy the requirements of the terms of the 
policy for cover to be provided. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for, but having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to pay the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman