DRN-3856626
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund £21,750 he lost 
to a bank impersonation scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr D fell victim to a bank impersonation scam in July 2022. He 
was contacted by someone purporting to be from the Halifax fraud team (the scammer), 
who said that someone was attempting to take out an £18,000 loan at his local branch. The 
scammer told him there were 22 similar cases of fraud that had occurred in the same branch 
and that they were investigating the staff that worked there.
Mr D was told that in order to counteract the fraudulent loan application, he would need to 
take out an £18,000 loan himself, and that he would need to send the money to a new 
account they had set up for him under the dummy name of Marius Rugu. Mr D applied for 
the loan through his mobile banking and was coached through what to do by the scammer, 
such as selecting the reason for the loan as home improvements, which he was told to 
always tell the bank if questioned so as not to tip off the branch staff.
The loan was approved, and Mr D made the following payments (which included money from 
his own savings account):
Date Payee Amount Payment method
7 July 2022 Marius Rugu £17,750 Faster payment
7 July 2022 Marius Rugu £4,000 Faster payment
Halifax intervened and questioned Mr D about the payments he was making, where he was 
asked to come into his local branch to discuss what they were for. But in line with the 
scammers instructions, Mr D explained that they were towards home improvements, so 
Halifax didnt consider him to be at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
Mr D reported the fraud to Halifax after he realised he had been scammed. Halifax 
considered his claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) but said he 
wasnt eligible for a refund. It said it had provided Mr D with an effective warning in line with 
its obligations under the Code and said that Mr D didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing the payments to be genuine. Mr D complained this was unfair and was also 
unhappy that he was being held liable to repay the loan he was tricked into taking out as part 
of the scam. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She was satisfied that Halifax had assessed 
the claim fairly and that it could rely on the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code. She also didnt think it was unfair for Mr D to be held liable for the loan given he had 
applied for it and received the proceeds. 
Mr D disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the reasons set out below.
It isnt in dispute that Mr D has fallen victim to a scam here. It also isnt disputed that he 
authorised the faster payments he made to the scammers account. The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Halifax, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Halifax would be liable to refund any the payments Mr D 
made in line with its obligations under the CRM Code.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, both the bank and its customer have obligations. If it 
can be shown that the customer has met their requisite level of care, then they will receive 
full reimbursement. If the customer has not done this, then it is for the firm to show that it has 
met its obligations under the Code, one of which is the provision of an Effective Warning 
when the firm identifies an APP scam risk in a payment journey. If a firm has not met its 
obligations then it, subject to any liability by the bank which received the money, will be liable 
for 50% of the customers loss.
In this case, Halifax has argued that exceptions to reimbursement under the Code apply 
such that none of the payments Mr D made would qualify for reimbursement. It says that it 
provided him with an effective warning under the Code, which Mr D ignored. It also said that 
Mr D lacked a reasonable basis for believing the payments or payee to be genuine, and 
therefore did not meet his requisite level of care. 
Did Mr D have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Having reviewed this aspect, Im satisfied there was enough going on from the outset that 
should have given Mr D serious cause for concern that something wasnt right:
I appreciate the number Mr D was called from had been spoofed to appear as though 
it was a genuine call from the bank. But I dont think this ought to have been enough 
to satisfy him that he was speaking to his genuine bank. It doesnt appear as though 
the caller knew any account specific information, or carried out any sort of caller 
verification to demonstrate it was in fact a genuine call. The caller also had to ask 
questions such as how much Mr D held in his account, and whether he had made 
payments to anyone else recently, which his genuine bank would not need to ask as 
they would already have access to this information. So, I dont think Mr D should 
have readily accepted that he was speaking to his bank in these circumstances. 
I also dont consider it was reasonable for Mr D to think he would have to take out a 
loan himself in order to stop an allegedly fraudulent loan application from being 
granted, or that he would need to send it to an account in another name for safe 
keeping. If there were any concerns about his account being compromised, then a 
genuine bank would have taken steps to block the account. It would not have asked him to continue making payments from it, and it certainly wouldnt have set up 
another account for him under someone elses name.  
Mr D was told by the scammer to lie to Halifax and give a fake reason in order to 
obtain a loan. The fact that he was being told to lie in order to obtain finance should 
have given him significant cause for concern, as he was essentially being asked to 
obtain the loan by fraudulent means. And I dont consider it reasonable to think that a 
genuine bank would ever ask its customers to do something like this. 
Mr D didnt appear to question that he was being asked to send a significant amount 
of money to an account that was not in his name, and which he did not have access 
to at the time he was making the payments. 
So, with all the warnings signs present here, I dont consider that Mr D had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments and Im satisfied Halifax has correctly 
demonstrated that this exception to full reimbursement under the Code applies.
Did Halifax meet the standards expected of a firm under the CRM Code?
Even though I dont think Mr D had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
he would still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if Halifax didnt meet the 
standards it has agreed to adhere to under the CRM Code. 
The CRM code says that, where a firm identifies APP scam risks, it should provide Effective 
Warnings to their customers. It sets out that an Effective Warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And it says that, as a minimum, an Effective Warning should be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific.
It isnt in dispute that an APP scam risk was identified here, given that Halifax blocked both 
payments Mr D made as part of the scam and spoke to him about them. Accordingly, its just 
a question of whether it did enough to ensure it provided an Effective Warning. 
When Mr D set up the first scam payment through his mobile banking app, he was asked to 
provide the reason for the payment, to which he selected invoice or bills. It generated a bill 
payment scam warning, and the transaction was stopped by Halifax, where it asked him to 
get in touch with the bank.  Mr D called Halifax from his mothers phone while keeping the 
scammer on the other line through his own phone so they could tell him what to say. When 
asked what the payment was for, Mr D said he had taken out a loan for home improvements 
(in line with the scammers instructions), and said he was paying for building work. Halifax 
asked if he had been contacted by the bank asking him to move money, or if he had been 
asked to lie to the bank, to which he said he hadnt.
After receiving a scam warning from Halifax, Mr D said he would try making the payment by 
debit card as this would be safer. He then attempted to make the payment again via faster 
payment, which was stopped a further time by the bank. Mr D said that the builder working 
on his house would not accept debit card payments. He explained how he knew the builder 
and that he had completed work on his neighbours house, but the bank was concerned that 
he didnt have any paperwork, so they asked him to visit his local branch. 
Mr D then called Halifax again from his local branch, while the scammer was listening in 
through the phone in his pocket. He was questioned further about the building work, but 
Mr D assured the representative that he knew the builder. 
Mr D was asked again if anyone had asked him to lie about the payments. Halifax explained that scammers will often pretend to be from the bank and would ask their victims to take out 
loans and move money. It said they would tell him to lie to about the reasons for moving the 
money if questioned and asked if he had received any suspicious phone calls like this, to 
which he again said he hadnt and that he was not being asked to lie to the bank, despite 
this being the exact scenario that was unfolding. It also warned him of the consequences of 
proceeding with the payment and said that he would not be able to get his money back. The 
Halifax representative googled the name of the payee and saw that it was associated with a 
building company based in London. As Mr D had not been honest with Halifax, it didnt have 
any further concern that the payment was related to a scam, and it was released. 
Halifax also spoke to Mr D when he attempted to make a transfer of £3,700 from his savings 
account. It stressed to him that it was important he was being honest, and it asked him again 
if he had received any unusual calls, or if he had been asked to lie to the bank. It again 
warned that he wouldnt be able to retrieve the money once it had left his account, which 
Mr D acknowledged, and the second payment was released. 
Overall, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied the warnings Halifax gave to Mr D in 
relation to each payment was understandable, clear, impactful, timely, and specifically 
identified the type of APP scam that he risked losing his money to, such that it can be 
considered an Effective warning under the CRM Code. Mr D ignored the warnings he was 
given, and Im satisfied this was material to the success of the scam. As a result, Im 
satisfied it has established this exception to reimbursement as well, meaning it does not 
need to refund any of the payments in this case. 
Even if it couldnt be considered an Effective Warning and that Halifax ought to have done 
more for it to be regarded as such, I dont think it would have ultimately prevented the scam 
in any event. This was because Mr D did not give honest answers to the questions he was 
being asked, which would have prevented Halifax from providing an Effective Warning in line 
with the Code. And despite being warned several times not to make the payment if anyone 
from the bank asked him to move money, it appears Mr D already understood the scam risk 
and would ve likely gone ahead regardless of what Halifax did or didnt do.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax couldve done anything more to recover the funds 
after Mr D reported the scam. However, I can see that it reached out to the beneficiary bank 
soon after the scam was reported, but it was unable to recover any of the money. So, I dont 
think it couldve done anything further here.
Has Halifax acted fairly by holding Mr D liable to repay the loan?
As part of the scam, Mr D took out an £18,000 loan under the instruction of the scammer, 
which he is now having to repay. Ive therefore considered whether its fair and reasonable 
for Halifax to expect him to pay this back, or if it should write the debt off. 
Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 sets out that a person wont be held 
liable for a debt if it was taken out by another person who wasnt acting as their agent. But in 
this instance, the loan wasnt fraudulently taken out by anyone else. I accept Mr D was 
tricked into taking it out, but ultimately, he knew he was applying for a loan and also misled 
the bank as to its purpose. 
Mr D received this money into his account, which he wouldve known were the proceeds of 
the loan that would need to be paid back with interest. He didnt take any action to try and 
return the funds to Halifax and instead transferred them to an account that wasnt in his 
name, and which he had no control over. As a result, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Halifax to write off the debt in these circumstances.I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded Halifax has acted unfairly in 
these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman