DRN-4055481
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted and closed his account 
without sufficient warning nor explanation. Mr C also complains about poor customer 
service, communication and the handling of his complaint. 
Mr C says Barclays actions have caused him financial loss, significant distress, and 
inconvenience. To put things right, Mr C wants his accounts re-opened and compensation 
paid to him. 
What happened
On 1 November 2022, following a review, Barclays restricted Mr Cs accounts and withheld 
the funds in them. On 2 November 2022, Barclays sent Mr C a letter in which it informed him 
that after identifying some recent activity on his account, it needed to carry out a review.
Barclays said it required information from Mr C about credits hed received. Reference was 
made to a transaction into Mr Cs account for around £4,000  other funds were released, 
but not £4,007.
Barclays outlined four methods Mr C could use to provide this information. They were: 
- Online. Barclays said Mr C would need to follow the steps in the email to send 
information digitally 
- By Post. Barclays advised Mr C he could complete the enclosed form and return it 
using the pre-paid envelope 
- Over the phone. A number and details around options and availability were provided 
- In branch. Mr C was advised to bring a copy of the account review letter, together 
with two forms of identity 
On 14 November 2022, Barclays informed Mr C it had decided to close all his accounts with 
immediate effect in line with its terms and conditions. Unhappy Mr C complained. 
Mr C says he sent this information to an email address as advised by branch staff on 
18 November 2022 and was told he would get his funds in 15 days. But he was told later that 
he had to do so by sending it to the proof of funds team directly in December 2022. 
On 24 December 2022, after being informed of his funds being available, Mr C visited a 
branch and withdrew them. 
Barclays sent Mr Cs its final response on 28 December 2022. In summary, the key points it 
made were: 
- Safeguards were placed on Mr Cs account whilst an internal investigation took place 
in line with its processes. Barclays cant give any additional information regards the 
safeguards
- The closure of the accounts had been carefully considered, and the correct decision 
was made 
- On 24 December 2022, Mr C visited a Barclays branch and withdrew the funds that 
were held in one of its sundry accounts as the proof of funds investigation had 
completed on 23 December 2022 
Unhappy with Barclays response and actions, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. As 
part of his complaint, and in short, Mr C made the following points: 
- He wants Barclays to pay 5.12% on £4,007 for the 52 days he was deprived of the 
funds. This is the rate of the savings account he wouldve stored the funds in. Mr C 
estimates he has lost around £30 in interest 
- Compensation for around 25 hours he has spent dealing with the Barclays to resolve 
the matter. Mr C he should be awarded compensation in line with the national 
minimum wage 
- Compensation for the significant distress and panic Barclays actions caused him 
- £50 compensation as an apology for the disruption caused to his studies 
- An explanation provided and apology for receiving conflicting information regarding 
the proof of funds process. Mr C says one branch told him he needs to send the 
proof of funds information to an email address for them to send onto the proof of 
funds team. But he was later told by another branch that was incorrect, and the 
information needed to be sent directly to the proof of funds team
- An explanation and apology for the way his complaint was handled. Mr C says 
Barclays initially only dealt with his complaint as a concern. This meant there was a 
delay to him being able to refer his complaint to this service 
- The accounts should be re-opened, and Mr C should be given the capability to bank 
with Barclays in the future
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Cs complaint. Some of their key findings were: 
- Barclays is required to comply with a variety of legal and regulatory obligations which 
included monitoring and reviewing accounts
- Having reviewed the terms of the account, Barclays should have given Mr C 62 days 
notice of closure as opposed to doing so with immediate effect 
- Barclays is entitled to review accounts, and funds wont always be readily available 
whilst it does so. Barclays said that once it received the proof of funds information it 
would get back to him in 15 working days. Mr C collected the funds on 
23 December 2022.This is a reasonable timeframe and from the evidence available it 
didnt cause unnecessary delays
- Barclays should pay Mr C £50 compensation for closing his account for giving the 
wrong notice period. Mr C had one regular direct debit which required re-arranging, 
this wouldve caused him some inconvenience
Mr C didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He says he has evidence in the form of an 
email chain showing he was told on 18 November 2022 that he would receive his funds in 15 working days from that point. So Barclays did cause a delay  especially as he was given 
the wrong email address to send his proof of funds information to.  
Mr C also felt the Investigator failed to look into his points about the way his complaint was 
handled. He also said they didnt consider compensation for lost interest, his time, the 
distress caused and the disruption to his studies. 
Our Investigator then responded to Barclays and said Mr C had provided evidence which 
showed he submitted his proof of entitlement to the funds on 18 November 2022  and they 
requested more information about this. 
Barclays said its records show it received Mr Cs proof of funds information on 
7 December 2022 and it subsequently completed its review on the 23 December 2022. It 
said it should have made Mr C aware sooner that he needed to provide this information. So 
it offered £100 more compensation on top of the £50 recommended by our Investigator. 
Our Investigator informed Mr C of this and said that as Barclays applied the restrictions in 
line with its obligations, they wouldnt recommend any further compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience he suffered. 
Mr C remained unhappy. He emphasised that it should pay more compensation for the way 
it carried out its processes and the errors it made. He also, amongst previously made points, 
reiterated the stress he was caused when the accounts were restricted, and that he wasnt 
given fair warning. 
In response, and in addition to previously made findings, our Investigator said that the 
options presented to Mr C to send his information would have led to it being sent to the proof 
of funds team. So they couldnt see that it wouldve caused a significant delay either way.  
They also said it was unlikely they could consider Mr Cs point about how his complaint was 
handled as this isnt a regulated activity the service has the power to look into. They added 
that the only error theyve found related to the communication around the proof of funds 
which likely caused a couple of weeks of delay to Mr C receiving his funds. But the £150 
compensation award accounts for this.
Mr C didnt agree and felt his points were misunderstood and not properly considered. 
Barclays then offered Mr C £200 to recognise the higher level of upset and inconvenience he 
says he suffered. Barclays also accepted there was a delay in making Mr C aware that proof 
of funds information was needed. 
Mr C didnt accept this as a resolution to his complaint. As he didnt agree, the complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr C and Barclays have said 
before reaching my decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Account review and closure 
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having considered Barclays reasons for placing Mr Cs accounts under review, Im satisfied 
it was acting in line with its obligations. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Mr C had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Mr Cs accounts were closed with immediate effect. Barclays has provided me with 
information about why it decided to close the accounts in this way. Having carefully 
considered this, Im not persuaded it had concern enough to close the accounts in this way. 
But I do think it had concern enough to close the accounts by giving Mr C two months 
notice. I know Mr C would like an explanation as to why Barclays took the actions it did, but 
Im not aware of any obligation under which it must do this. And Ive already said that we 
consider some of the information Barclays has provided should be kept confidential. 
So as Barclays closed the accounts with the wrong notice period, Im satisfied I need to 
consider the impact this had on Mr C to weigh up if any compensation award is merited. 
Mr C has said he predominantly used his accounts with Barclays for interest on his savings. 
And thats why he moved his money around in the way he did. I note Mr C had one direct 
debit set-up on the account for his broadband provider and was inconvenienced in having to 
sort this out manually. 
But as Ive said, Barclays were entitled to close the accounts by giving two months notice  
so in other words, Mr C wouldve had to do this in any case. But I will take this into account 
when making any award given, he would have had much longer and suffered less 
inconvenience with two months to change it. 
Having given this some thought, I dont think the loss of the use of Mr Cs Barclays accounts 
caused him significant disruption given it doesnt appear to be where he carried out most of 
his banking needs given it had one regular payment and little else activity for essential living 
costs.  
Mr C says Barclays actions caused him substantive panic and distress when he learnt, without warning, his accounts had been blocked. Barclays sent Mr C a letter the day after it 
blocked the accounts, and its internal system notes show that a SMS message was sent too. 
But even if Mr C didnt receive this message, I think Barclays acted in a timely manner when 
informing Mr C about the account restrictions. 
I accept the restrictions, and his loss of access to his Banking platforms, wouldve caused 
Mr C alarm and stress. But as Barclays did nothing wrong here, I wont be making a 
compensation award for any distress caused for this. 
Provision of proof of funds information 
Barclays accept it should have made Mr C aware sooner that he needed to provide 
information about the source of his funds. Mr C says he was led to believe he needed to 
provide this information to what he later found out was an incorrect email address three 
weeks before.
Mr C has sent evidence of an email chain which shows he sent this information to a Barclays 
email address on 16 November 2022. And he was later asked a further question by its agent 
on the 18 November 2022 related to the reason for transferring £4,000. Mr C was also told 
on the same day that he should have to wait 15 working days for the funds to be released. 
But Barclays say it received this information on 7 December 2022. Given what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied there has most likely been a communication error - and it was most likely caused by 
mis-advice given to Mr C by Barclays staff. Equally, I note Mr C was told in a letter sent to 
him on 2 November 2022 where he needed to send this information to. This letter was likely 
sent by the department dealing with the review, so I do think not relying and placing weight 
on this is a mitigating factor against any compensation award. 
Having said that I accept Barclays caused a delay here of about three weeks. So it follows 
that Mr C would most likely have received his funds three weeks before he did. And that 
means hes been deprived of their use for longer than he ought to have. 
Mr C has already said he wouldve kept the funds in a savings account attracting an interest 
rate of a little over 5%. So as Barclays caused an avoidable delay here, it should 
compensate Mr C for the deprivation of funds. I will address what I think is fair redress for 
this a little later in my decision.  
Complaint handling 
Given this relates to an underlying financial service, its a complaint point Im satisfied we 
have the power to consider. Mr C says his complaint was initially not construed as such. He 
says that Barclays didnt investigate it as they thought it was merely a concern. 
I havent seen much evidence as to what Mr C said to Barclays and whether or not it did 
treat this as a complaint. But Im persuaded from Mr Cs testimony that he was making a 
expression of dissatisfaction. And that is what regulators - the Financial Conduct Authority - 
rules say about what constitutes a complaint. 
But even if Barclays failed to pick up on Mr Cs complaint earlier, I dont think its prejudiced 
or caused Mr C any detriment that warrants compensation. Mr C says he wouldve referred 
his complaint to this service sooner. But I dont think the timeline of how things have moved 
on since he would have made a complaint earlier is significantly altered because of this. So I 
dont award any compensation for this. 
Fair redressIve already said that Barclays should compensate Mr C for the deprivation of funds and 
inconvenience caused to him for not being given two months notice of closure. Ive also said 
that this inconvenience has been mitigated by Barclays accounts being used mainly for 
savings and not for servicing essential everyday costs. I note also that he wasnt receiving 
any regular income in the way of salary or benefits. 
Mr C says he should be awarded compensation for the loss of around 25 hours in dealing 
with this matter - and for the disruption to his studies. But Barclays did nothing wrong in 
reviewing, restricting and ultimately closing the accounts. 
So I dont think Barclays needs to compensate Mr C through an hourly rate for loss of time or 
disruption to his studies in the way he says. I accept however some of Mr Cs time was 
unnecessarily wasted through the delays with the proof of funds communication. So I will 
take some inconvenience, which includes loss of his time, into account when making an 
award. 
After weighing all of this up Im persuaded a compensation award of around £150 is fair 
redress. Its also this services general approach to award 8% statutory interest for the 
deprivation of funds. But Mr C has said he wouldve left the funds in a savings account to 
attract a rate of 5.12%. As Barclays have proactively offered to pay Mr C £200 compensation 
and given this increment on £150 is more than what 5.12% would have given him had he 
had his funds three weeks earlier, Im satisfied this is fair redress. 
Lastly, Mr C says he wants his accounts re-opened and they capability to bank with Barclays 
in the future. But as Ive said Barclays did nothing wrong in closing his accounts, so it 
doesnt need to re-open them, nor is it under any obligation to let him bank with it in the 
future. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr C £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman