DRN-2311793
The complaint
Mrs O complains Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim under her boiler cover 
policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
All references to Aviva include their agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Theres no dispute that Mrs Os policy covers the boiler, and not the radiator. So, its 
reasonable any calls outs would be for the purpose of looking at the boiler  and not 
the radiator
Mrs O has said as the boiler kept losing pressure repeatedly it shouldve suggested 
to Aviva there was a problem elsewhere. If the engineer saw something during their 
visit that indicated an issue with something that wasnt related to the boiler, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for them to make Mrs O aware
But Aviva have provided me with the job notes showing the work carried out on each 
engineers visit. I can see on each occasion they found issues with the boiler and 
work was completed on the boiler to rectify it. And, Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me they shouldve been aware of any problem related to the leaking 
radiator. 
Aviva attended an appointment in November 2019 and the job notes from the time 
said there was a leak in the radiator in the bedroom. Mrs O said Avivas engineer 
didnt go into the room where the leaking radiator was located  and the job notes 
also say Mrs O had recently had a private engineer visit. So, I think its likely this was 
established during the private engineers visit. 
The private engineer later provided a letter in March 2020 to confirm they resolved 
the leak to the radiator by replacing a valve. But there is nothing in this letter that 
links this issue to the boiler  and Ive seen nothing to persuade me Aviva were 
responsible for causing the leak to radiator through any work they did on the boiler.
So therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman