DRN-3499908
The complaint
Mr A complains that a money transfer through  Skrill Limited (Skrill) was lost  for four 
months.. He would like more compensation for the distress and inconvenience than Skrill 
has paid.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Theres no dispute that it took some months for Mr As transfer to be processed. As I 
understand it the payment did eventually reach the recipient bank but was returned 
by that bank to Skrill who have subsequently refunded Mr A. The issue is the level of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr A suffered as a result. Skrill sent 
Mr A a voucher for £70 to use off his next transfer which I understand Mr A has used. 
However, in addition Mr A would like a minimum of £350 compensation
I have  read Skrills terms and conditions .These make it clear that in transferring 
money it uses payment partners. So, funds are credited to one of these partners and 
its that partner that is then responsible for the onward transmission of the funds. 
From what I have seen it seems Skrill actioned the transfer, but the delay was with 
the payment partner not Skrill. So, I dont think I can reasonably ask Skrill to pay the 
additional compensation that Mr A has requested
I do appreciate the distress and inconvenience Mr A must have suffered. He 
transferred a significant sum of money which took months to reach the recipient. I 
have seen the correspondence between Skrill and its payment partner during 
October to  December 2021 and into January 2022 until the matter was resolved. I 
think Skrill made every effort to resolve the situation for Mr A . I cant reasonably 
conclude that the delay in doing so was Skrills fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
