DRN-2608495
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 17 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 45 days duration 
taken worldwide, up to a maximum of 120 days in the whole policy year. The policy year 
started on 20 January 2020 and ended on 19 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs B paid £474.72 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover. 
On 1 May 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted the broker to cancel their travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said that, as this was outside the 14-day cooling off period, no refund of the 
premium was due.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He found that neither the relevant 
regulators rules nor the policy terms and conditions entitled Mr and Mrs B to a premium 
refund but that as Great Lakes were no longer covering the risk of insuring Mr and Mrs B 
after they cancelled the policy on 1 May 2020, he found it would be fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund of the premium, based on the date Mr and Mrs B 
cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators opinion, but Great Lakes disagreed. Great Lakes 
said that Mr and Mrs B were not entitled to any refund under the policy as per the policy 
terms and conditions. It also said that as Mr and Mrs B had been able to use the policy for a 
trip prior to the cancellation, it stood by its decision to not offer any refund.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs B held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
 
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted Great Lakes regarding the cancellation of their travel insurance 
policy more than three months after they had taken it out  so the cancellation request was 
not made within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even if Mr and Mrs B had cancelled the 
policy within this time period, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium 
paid. This is because Great Lakes was already covering the risk of them needing to cancel 
any trips for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time, such as ill health.
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
 
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or 
the date on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later.
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances:
Your holiday return date is within one month of the commencement of your 
policy. No refund will be given.
Your cover has commenced. A pro rata refund will be given.
You have made or are intending to make a claim. No refund will be given or 
we will recover the monies paid to you in settlement of the claim before 
refunding the premium paid
See below for your rights outside this statutory cooling-off period.
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by 
contacting us, but no refund of premium will be available.
As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs B cancelled the policy more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B arent entitled to a refund under the policy 
terms and conditions. 
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs B are entitled to any refund of the premiums under the terms 
and conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable taking into account all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
I understand why any future travel plans which Mr and Mrs B might have had during the 
remainder of the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance 
policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 20 January 2020. This is because 
Mr and Mrs B were insured from that date for travelling on any number of trips of up to 45 
days duration which they may have taken until the policy was cancelled on 1 May 2020. 
Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of 
knowing how many such trips Mr and Mrs B took (unless Mr and Mrs B subsequently made 
a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may have been none, 
but Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force. Im 
aware that Mr and Mrs B have told us they were able to take a trip in February 2020, but that 
no claims were made to Great Lakes in relation to that holiday.
The price set by Great Lakes also covered Mr and Mrs B for the cancellation of any other 
holidays which they had booked and were due to take from 20 January 2020 until they 
decided to cancel the policy. So, Mr and Mrs B would have been covered if they had to 
cancel any number of holidays for any of the listed reasons detailed in the policy, such as for 
ill health.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. Mr and Mrs B appear to have 
acknowledged this as they are asking for a pro-rata refund, rather than a full refund of all the 
premiums paid.
 
Ive thought very carefully about this situation. However, I think it is important to recognise 
that Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy after the date 
they requested to cancel the policy  which was only 102 days after the policy was taken 
out. 
By the time that Mr and Mrs B asked to cancel their policy, their planned trips had already 
been cancelled. Great Lakes hasnt paid any claims for those holidays and therefore it 
wouldnt have borne any risk for a claim being made for any insured event from the date that 
Mr and Mrs B cancelled the policy.
And from the date Mr and Mrs B requested the cancellation of the policy, Great Lakes was 
not providing cancellation cover for any other holidays which Mr and Mrs B may have had 
booked, or for any travelling that Mr and Mrs B may have already done either abroad or 
within the UK, including the trip in February 2020. Great Lakes will also be able to retain the 
premiums for the period of time it was bearing a risk, but no claims were made. So, I think 
thats fair and reasonable on the facts of this particular case. As Ive mentioned above, the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic are 
incredibly unusual. And based on those unique and unprecedented circumstances, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata refund 
of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from the date they 
requested that the policy was cancelled  which was 1 May 2020.
Putting things right
Great Lakes need to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata cash refund of the premium they 
paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
The refund should be calculated based on the unused period of the insurance cover from the 
date Mr and Mrs B initially requested the policy to be cancelled  which was 1 May 2020  
until the original end date of the policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as Ive outlined.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman