DRN-4043031
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain Coventry Building Society declined their application for a further 
advance on their mortgage.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H took out a residential mortgage with Coventry Building Society (CBS) at 
some point before 2008. In 2008, 2014 and 2020 they borrowed additional amounts. And in 
January 2023 they applied for a further advance of £60,000 to consolidate debt theyd 
incurred through unsecured borrowing to carry out home improvements. 
CBS carried out an affordability assessment taking into account Mrs H and Mr Hs income 
and expenditure information. Based on that CBS said they would lend a maximum of 
£15,200 over a 16-year period. Mrs H and Mr H were unhappy with that. They felt the extra 
borrowing they wanted would be affordable based on Mrs Hs income and CBS hadnt 
explained why theyd failed to meet their lending criteria.
CBS referred the application to their underwriters when Mrs H and Mr H complained. But 
their decision didnt change. Mrs H and Mr H brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said, broadly, CBS 
had acted reasonably in considering the application. Theyd come to a fair lending decision 
based on their lending criteria. And the decision was in line with how wed expect CBS to act 
as a responsible lender. 
Since Mrs H and Mr H didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult financial position Mrs H and Mr H were in as a result of the 
coronavirus pandemic and the costs of their home improvements increasing. I appreciate it 
was disappointing when CBS refused their application given their long relationship with CBS 
and the impact the decision had on their plans to reduce their outgoings.
Ultimately its a decision for a lender as to whether they lend or not. A lender generally has a 
free hand to set their lending criteria. But we expect them to act fairly and reasonably in 
coming to a decision, having regard to the relevant rules and regulations and their duty to 
lend responsibly. 
In considering Mrs H and Mr Hs application CBS had regard, rightly, to the rules set out in 
the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Since 2014 requirements on lenders about making sure 
mortgages are affordable have been stricter. Under MCOB 11.7, where a borrower has 
taken their mortgage out before the new rules came in, a lender doesnt have to carry out a 
full affordability assessment in certain circumstances and they should allow some changes 
to be made if those changes are in the borrowers best interests. But Mrs H and Mr H 
wanted to borrow more money. So, CBS had to carry out an affordability assessment in their 
case.
Once CBS had done that, they decided Mrs H and Mr H didnt meet their lending criteria and 
declined their application. I note Mrs H and Mr H feel they could have afforded the additional 
borrowing and that there was enough equity in their property to cover it. Its not my role to 
decide if they could. CBS assessed Mrs H and Mr Hs application taking into account various 
factors including their income and expenditure and other borrowing that wouldnt be paid off 
through debt consolidation. And they referred the application to their underwriters when their 
affordability calculator showed the level of borrowing theyd agree to was significantly below 
the amount Mrs H and Mr H required. I think they considered the application fairly in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs H and Mr H would like to know exactly why they didnt meet CBSs lending 
criteria. Lending criteria differ from lender to lender. They can change depending on the level 
of risk the lender is prepared to take from time to time. And they may contain confidential 
commercial information. I wouldnt expect CBS to share that detailed information. And they 
arent obliged to tell Mrs H and Mr H the specific reasons why their application was declined.
I recognise Mrs H and Mr H feel strongly about what happened and will be unhappy with my 
decision. But, bearing the above in mind, I dont think CBS acted unreasonably or treated 
them unfairly. So, I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman