DRN-2801008
The complaint
Mr A says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
he wasnt borrowing sustainably as he was using the loans to pay for his day to day living 
expenses. He thinks that Mr Lender shouldve realised this and stopped lending to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about twelve payday and instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr A 
between November 2014 and March 2020. Some of the information I have been provided 
about the lending is in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedinstalments 
(monthly)date repaid
1 03/11/2014 £150 2 22/12/2014
2 22/12/2014 £500 6 28/05/2015
3 28/05/2015 £750 6 27/11/2015
4 27/11/2015 £750 6 27/05/2016
5 31/05/2016 £300 3 26/08/2016
6 30/08/2016 £320 3 28/11/2016
7 24/12/2016 £300 3 28/03/2017
8 29/03/2017 £1,000 12 28/03/2018
9 06/04/2018 £400 3 28/06/2018
10 28/06/2018 £1,500 12 28/06/2019
11 01/07/2019 £550 9 24/01/2020
12 16/03/2020 £500 9 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Mr Lender was acting 
incorrectly when it approved loans 1 to 3. But he thought that at loan 4 there were signs that 
Mr A was having problems managing his money. And from loan 6 onwards the lending 
pattern itself was harmful. 
Mr A agreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said its business file showed that the 
checks it made were proportionate and the lending was reasonable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr A didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loans 1 to 3. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with 
Mr Lender. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
he took.
Mr A had been borrowing for just over a year when took loan 4. And there hadnt been any 
time when Mr A hadnt been making repayments to Mr Lender. The amounts he had 
borrowed had increased from £150 to £750 for loans 2 and 3. Because of this increase Mr A 
was now regularly repaying not far short of a quarter of his declared income of just over 
£1,600. As our adjudicator said I think this demonstrates in itself that Mr As financial 
situation was poor and Mr Lender shouldnt have lent to him. 
I also think Mr Lender couldve realised at that time that Mr A may have some longer-term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr As true financial situation. And it should have looked into his circumstances in more 
detail. 
If it had done this it wouldve seen that Mr A was borrowing and repaying amounts to at least 
one other high cost credit provider. This shouldve also led to Mr Lender to realise that this 
lending wasnt sustainable and not lent to him. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have approved loans 4 and 5. Im 
upholding Mr As complaint about these loans. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 12 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders 
lending history with Mr A, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr A had been indebted to Mr Lender for over two years. So, it 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr A was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr As first loan was for £150 and loan 6 was for £320. Mr A had borrowed higher 
amounts then this in the recent past, with a longer repayment term. At this point 
Mr Lender ought to have known that Mr A was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Right from the start Mr A was provided with a new loan within days of settling the 
previous one. So his indebtedness was ongoing and constant. 
And Mr A didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan 12 
was taken out over five years after Mr As first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr A 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr A lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr As ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him/her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about 4 to 12 and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr A from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr A loans 4 to 12.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr A having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-
off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing for loans 6 to 12 means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely 
from Mr As credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan 12 from Mr As credit file 
until these have been repaid, but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman