DRN-2687982
The complaint
Mr J is a sole trader, trading as T. He complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly 
declined a claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J holds a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. He made a claim on that 
policy to cover his losses arising out of the closure of his business due to the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Allianz declined the claim because it said Mr J didnt have cover for the losses he was 
claiming for. Mr J didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the 
wording for specified illnesses and denial of access meant that his claim should be covered 
under the policy.
Our investigator considered Mr Js complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that, while he sympathised with Mr Js situation, he didnt think there was cover available 
under the policy for the situation Mr J found himself in. Mr J doesnt agree so the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had on Mr J. 
But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr J is looking to claim on his business interruption insurance policy. There are a range of 
business interruption insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks; 
from basic perils like fire and flood to providing cover for additional perils  either as part of 
the policy or as an optional add on. When considering whether Allianz acted fairly in 
declining Mr Js claim, the starting point is to consider the specific policy he took out. As 
such Ive considered the policy Mr J holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any 
sections that would require Allianz to meet the claim. 
Mr J has told us that T closed its doors in March 2020 due to the Government-imposed 
lockdown, which meant it wasnt allowed to remain open. The policy provides cover for 
several things, including specified illnesses and denial of access. So Ive considered each of 
these below and whether the policy would provide cover under that section for these 
circumstances.
Specified illnesses
The Government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the 
most likely section of the policy that could provide cover would be the extension in relation to 
specified illnesses. That section covers disruption to business activities as a direct result of 
any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises, or any occurrence of a Specified 
Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for Specified Illness, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, Covid-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something Allianz would have known about when the policy 
was drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for 
the pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. In contrast, Mr Js policy sets out a specific list of 
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is 
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Damage, Denial of access and Loss of Attraction
Ive also thought about the denial of access section of cover and I dont think it applies to this 
claim. The denial of access part of the policy requires there to be Damage which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the business premises. 
Damage is defined as Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1, 3, 4 and 7 of 
this Policy. Nothing in these sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by 
way of a specified illness or disease such as Covid-19, or even a Government-imposed act. 
Rather they refer to physical damage in different situations. Because Covid-19 doesnt fall 
into the definition of Damage, it cant apply to the denial of access clause either. 
Ive also considered whether the loss of attraction section of the policy would apply to this 
claim, as Mr J believes it does. The policy states that this section covers:
Any claim resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of 
accidental loss or destruction of or damageto property within one mile radius of the 
Premises which:
a) prevents or hinders the use of the Premises, or
b) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the Premises
Having considered this term, I think its clear that it requires there to be physical damage to 
property within a mile of the business in order for it to apply. And as T was closed as a result 
of a Government-imposed lockdown, rather than as a result of an issue with a nearby 
property, I dont think this section of the policy covers this claim.
Mr J has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case, however not every policy 
was considered as part of that case. And policies with a definitive list of specified diseases, 
like this one, werent the subject of the test case, so it doesnt change my decision. And 
while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown had on 
Mr J, having taken everything into account and having considered the remaining terms of the 
policy, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman