DRN-3340578
The complaint
Mr W complains about how U K Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Insurance
(Churchill), has handled two claims relating to his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a different 
outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with 
anything else they wanted me to take into account.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms part of this final decision.
Mr W was involved in an incident in which his car was damaged. He says he contacted
Churchill and they advised him to use its approved repairer, who Ill refer to as D.
Mr W wasnt happy with the repairs that were carried out by D. Initially, he noticed that some
additional damage had been caused to his car and, what looked like, wet tar had been
splattered up the side. Mr W says he then noticed that the mileage on the car was higher to
what it was when he took it in and asked if his car had been taken out at any point.
Initially, D said that his car hadnt left the premises  but then later said that it had been
taken for a test drive and had been driven around the different repair sites at the garage.
After Mr W spoke to Churchill, D repaired the dent and cleaned the wet tar off the car. Mr W
says that when he went to collect the car again, he noticed that the front bumper and the
wing mirrors werent aligned, and so he made a complaint.
Churchill agreed to have the car checked over by a different garage, who Ill refer to as S,
which was another one of its approved repairers. Mr W says that S found that the car was
dangerous to drive. It found that the front facing road camera on his car wasn't fitted
correctly and that if left unrepaired, could have been very dangerous. S took around three
weeks to repair the car.
During the time Mr Ws car was in for repairs, he was provided the use of a courtesy car
(CC) by D. While the CC was in Mr Ws possession, the tyre punctured. Mr W called out for
roadside assistance. The roadside assistance company suggested that the car was driven to
get the tyre replaced, but Mr W said that he didnt want to do this because he didnt deem it
safe, and so he called out a tyre repair place to change the tyre.
Once Mr Ws car had been repaired, he took the CC back to D. He requested that the CC
was checked over while he was there, but this request was declined. Mr W later found out
that D had put in a claim for some additional damage it said Mr W had caused to the car. It
said that damage had been caused to the suspension and wheel trim.
Mr W strongly disputes the claim made against his policy by D. He says that there was no
additional damage that had been caused. The tyre exploded while he was driving, he says
that the road where the incident occurred was in good condition, and so couldnt have been
as a result of anything on or in the road.
Mr W says that Churchill have relied on false information when doing its investigation. He
says that there wasnt ever a report done by the roadside assistance that could confirm any
additional damage to the car  although Churchill had mentioned this report in some of its
communication to him. Mr W also says that their investigation of the matter was weak,
because they referred to the wrong roadside assistance provider.
Mr W isnt happy that the damage to the CC wasnt inspected in person by an independent
engineer. And instead, the engineer inspected photos that they were sent by the D.
Mr W later received a letter from D demanding a payment of £600 excess  and if this wasnt
paid, it would instruct debt collectors.
Churchill have sent Mr W a number of final responses in relation to his complaints. I will
summarise what these said below:
12 March 2021  Churchill responded to Mr Ws complaint about additional mileage. 
Offered Mr W £25 to say sorry.
22 March 2021  It responded to Mr Ws complaint about the initial issues with the 
first repair  including the wet tar and additional dent to body work. Offered Mr W 
£250.
12 May 2021  It responded to Mr Ws complaint about the CC damage. This part of 
the complaint wasnt upheld by Churchill and said that it had used the information 
from the engineer when coming to its decision. It also said that it didnt feel that the 
garage being linked to the insurer was a conflict of interest. 
However, it did uphold the issue about the investigation into the CC damage, and 
agreed it hadnt been carried out quickly and was dormant for approximately two 
months. It also said that it agreed to uphold Mr Ws complaint about the repairs to his 
car that were carried out by D were unsafe. It offered Mr W £200 in total for these 
issues.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They thought that it
was fair of Churchill to have relied on the comments of the engineer when determining that it
was more likely that Mr W had caused damage to the CC. And he felt that the compensation
Churchill had offered for the other issues was fair.
Mr W didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to express my empathy for Mr Ws situation. Its clear that he feels very strongly about
his complaint. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard
the situation Mr W has found himself in. Clearly, hes had a difficult time dealing with the
issues hes faced as a result of the incident with his car.
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if Churchill has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr Ws claim, and the claim that was made against him.I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided
by both parties, in reaching my decision. Mr W and Churchill has sent this service a lot of
information for me to consider during the course of this complaint. If Ive not reflected
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer,
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint appears to be that he is unhappy with the repairs carried out to
his car by D. And he feels as though his dissatisfaction with those repairs has led D into
pursuing a claim against his policy for the damage it says was caused to the CC. Mr W
doesnt feel that Churchill has carried out a thorough enough investigation into the liability of
the damage caused to the CC, and so he doesnt feel he should be liable to pay the £600
excess or have some of his no claims discount (NCD) removed.
Courtesy car damage
It isnt my role to determine who was liable for the damage caused to the CC; that would be
a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether Churchill has acted in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Churchill can take over the settlement of the
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. But it also needs to act fairly in
deciding how to settle matters and so Ive checked to see if it has made a reasonable
assessment of the claim. And at the moment, I dont think it has.
Its probably worth noting here that D, Churchills approved repairers, are the third-party in
this claim  they are the owners of the CC. So, in these circumstances, where both parties
have disputed liability of the damage, Id have expected Churchill to have carried out an
impartial and independent investigation into claim.
Its not in dispute that the tyre punctured while the CC was in Mr Ws possession. But I dont
think this necessarily means that Mr W caused the tyre to burst, or that the additional
damage now reported by D was caused by Mr W or happened while he was in possession of
the car.
Churchill appear to have held Mr W liable for the damage caused to the suspension and
wheel trim of the CC because the tyre burst whilst Mr W was driving it. And it thinks that the
impact of the tyre bursting has caused further damage to the car.
So firstly, I think Churchill needed to establish if the cause of the burst tyre is Mr Ws
responsibility.
In its final response to Mr W, Churchill said that it didnt know what caused the tyre to burst.
It relied on some comments provided to it by D, when it said that it could have been down to
a pot hole or large obstacle in the road. D said that the roadside assistance company told it
that the road where the tyre burst was in poor condition. But other than Ds testimony, I
havent seen any evidence which suggests this was the cause of the burst tyre, and I havent
seen any evidence from that roadside assistance company which confirms this. Mr W says
the road was in good condition  and I cant see that Churchill investigated this point any
further. So, without any evidence to support what either party has said, Churchill appear to
have decided it likely that Mr W caused the burst tyre.
When Mr W first collected the CC, he was given a condition report where the existingdamage to the car was marked on it. I can see from looking at this that there was, amongst
other areas, some minor damage to the front left alloy (the same wheel that the tyre burst
on). This existing damage appears to have been accepted by both parties.
Churchill has said that the mark on the alloy couldnt have caused the tyre to explode. Its
said that theres no evidence to support this. But in my opinion, Churchill hasnt provided any
reliable independent evidence that supports that the existing damage to the alloy wasnt the
cause of the tyre bursting. I can see that it has asked for comments from its engineer about
this point, but that engineer appears to have based its opinion on information provided by D.
So I dont currently find that its investigation into this point has been independent.
I dont think theres enough independent evidence here to prove that Mr W caused the tyre
to burst, which potentially caused further damage to the car. And I dont think theres enough
evidence for Churchill to determine that the burst tyre wasnt caused by previous damage to
the alloy.
The claim made against Mr Ws policy by D, was for the damage that it said had been
caused to the suspension and wheel trims. So Ive looked at the evidence Churchill used
when investigating the claim.
I can see from Churchills notes that its sent to us, that theyve liaised with D about the
further damage caused to the car. D told Churchill that the damage could only have been
caused by the burst tyre, which it thought Mr W was at fault for. Churchills engineer has
relied on the information provided to them by D when deciding it likely that Mr W caused the
damage to the CC. Given the dispute between D and Mr W, I dont think it would be fair of
Churchill to only rely on Ds comments about the damage sustained to the car.
I can see that D sent Churchill a report that confirms the repairs that would need to be
carried out, and some photos of the car. And this was also taken into account by Churchill.
But the repairs report and photos dont support Ds comments that Mr W caused the
damage.
Generally, in cases of liability, Id expect the engineer to make an assessment as to what is
most likely to have happened, based on the evidence it has seen. And I would usually think it
fair of an insurer to place weight on the comments of an engineer, after all, they are expert in
these matters.
However, in this case, the engineers assessment appears to be based on the comments
and conversations they had with D, who are the third-party claimant. There doesnt appear to
have been any independent assessment of the CC carried out by Churchill. Because I hadnt
seen anything of this nature, I asked Churchill for its engineers comments on the cause of
the damage; the engineer responded to say this was a tricky case, and referred to
comments about the damage provided by D.
But Mr W strongly disputes that he caused any additional damage to the CC. And he has
tried to evidence this by providing Churchill with a letter from the tyre company who replaced
the tyre. The letter says:
We towed the vehicle to our yard, removed the wheel, inspected the vehicle on our ramp,
fitted a new tyre and the car was 100% road worthy with no signs of any damage except a
marked alloy wheel on which the tyre was fitted, the client advised that this alloy was already
damaged prior to the tyre being replaced.
So, it appears that, in the opinion of the tyre repair company, there wasnt any obvious
damage that had been caused to the car as a result of the burst tyre.I can see that Churchill thought about the report that was provided by Mr W, and it has said
that a full check could have been carried out by the tyre repair company to check for further
damage. But I dont see any reason why Mr W would have requested this. Especially given
that the tyre repair company didnt think that there had been any other damage caused.
Mr W didnt report any issues with driving the car after the tyre had been replaced  which its
possible he might have, had there been damage caused to the suspension and steering.
Churchill has said that the car sustained moderate damage that might not always be
noticeable when driving. But if this the case, then its possible that the damage to the car
could have already been present when Mr W collected it.
Because of this, I asked Churchill to provide any evidence of the checks that D carried out
on the CC after it was last used, but it hasnt provided this. Had the CC been previously
returned to D with damage to the alloy, then it would seem reasonable for it to have carried
out some checks prior to it loaning the car to Mr W  but I havent seen any evidence of this.
Based on everything thats been provided so far, the only independent piece of evidence I
have seen in this case is from the tyre company that replaced the tyre. The letter provided by
this company doesnt suggest that there were any issues with the CC.
While I appreciate that D say that damage was caused, at the moment, I dont think theres
enough independent evidence to confirm the car was damaged and that Mr W caused that
damage. It follows that I dont currently think Churchill carried out a thorough enough
investigation into liability. And so it needs to put things right for Mr W.
I know Mr W feels very strongly about what Churchill and D said about the roadside
assistance provider. In that, he was led to believe that the roadside assistance company had
provided D with a report about the damage  which turned out not to be true. And Churchill
continued to refer to the wrong roadside assistance company in its communications with Mr
W. I think all parties have now accepted that there was no such report provided by the
roadside assistance company. I can understand why Mr W would find this point suspicious,
given that it feeds into his overall opinion that Churchill didnt do a thorough investigation. 
But at the moment, I dont think I need to comment on this point too much, because Im
already upholding this part of the complaint for the reasons Ive stated above.
Other issues
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the initial repairs that were carried out to Mr Ws
car werent sufficient. And there isnt a dispute about the fact his car incurred increased
mileage, marks on the bodywork or the fresh dent. So, I dont need to make a finding on
these points.
But I do need to consider whether Churchill has done enough to put things right for Mr W in
respect of these issues.
I have seen that the wet tar and dent were rectified by D  which is what I would have
expected to happen. I can understand that it must have been disappointing for Mr W to
arrive at D to see his car like this. Churchill has ensured that the repairs were carried out and
paid £250 in respect of this part of Mr Ws complaint, and I think this is fair in the
circumstances.
Churchill accepted that the initial repairs carried out to Mr Ws car werent acceptable and
offered Mr W £100 to say sorry for this. I can see that Churchill instructed a different
approved repairer, S, to do these repairs  and Mr W is now happy with these. Im pleasedto learn that there havent been any dangerous consequences as a result of the initial poor
repairs  it must have been shocking to understand what potentially could have gone wrong.
However, I cant ask Churchill to compensate Mr W for what might have happened, and so I
think the £100 it has already offered seems fair.
Churchill has also provided its comments as to the higher mileage on Mr Ws car when he
picked it up from the garage. Mr W is unhappy that someone has used his car without him
agreeing to this. Churchills explanation for this is that it was test driven and driven around
the garage site. Without any other evidence that contradicts this, Im minded accepting this.
Its likely that a car would need to be driven to test it, while its in for repairs. Churchill has
agreed to pay £25 for this, and I think this is fair, given that there doesnt appear to be any
evidence to show that the car was driven offsite for any other purpose.
In addition to what Ive already said about the investigation into the claim made against Mr W
in relation to the courtesy car, it appears that Churchill have accepted that it didnt do
enough. And that it took too long to carry out the investigation. It has offered him £100 for
this too. But at the moment, I dont think this is enough. Clearly Mr W has been through a
difficult time dealing with this claim. I can see that he has been frustrated by Churchill
accepting information from D that turned out not to be true. And there have been other
issues along the way, for example, D demanding repayment of the excess directly from Mr
W, when this should have all been dealt with by Churchill in the first instance. So I think
Churchill should increase its offer by an additional £100 in respect of these issues.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted my findings.
However, Churchill didnt agree and made the below main points:
The road where the incident happened was covered in potholes, which is most likely 
the reason the tyre burst. Churchill said this information was confirmed by the 
roadside assistance provider and they have no reason to doubt them.
Mr W took the car to have the wheel replaced but didnt ask for it to be aligned. 
Theres no report from the tyre company that supports the car was roadworthy. 
The garage has confirmed that the tyre would not have burst as a result of damage to 
the alloy. The scratched alloy would not cause a tyre to blow out.
Churchill cant remove the claim because theres no dispute it happened.
It doesnt agree to the increase in compensation given Mr Ws conduct to the staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I will be upholding this complaint.
Its probably worth noting here that in this decision, Im not saying that Mr W did or didnt 
cause the additional damage to the car. But Im sill of the opinion that Churchill didnt do 
enough to defend the claim made against Mr W, and instead it relied heavily on information it 
got from the garage, who are the third-party.
The information Churchill has relied on in relation to the condition of the road has been 
provided by the garage, which they say they got this from the roadside assistance provider. I 
havent been given any evidence that supports what the garage have said they were told, 
like a call recording, or call notes from the time. Or that Churchill themselves attempted to 
contact the roadside assistance provider to clarify this. Mr W says the road was in good condition. So, I dont think the condition of the road is clear here. And more could have been 
done to verify this. 
I accept that theres no report thats been provided by the tyre company, but I wouldnt have 
expected Mr W to know to obtain something like this at the time. Or to request an alignment 
check. The letter confirms that the car was roadworthy. And Churchill hasnt been able to 
provide me anything independent of what the garage has said to show it wasnt.
I dont think its in dispute that the mark on the alloy was a scratch. But any damage to an 
alloy could potentially cause other issues. I asked Churchill to provide me with any evidence 
it has to show that the suspension and wheel alignment were fine before Mr W used the car, 
but it hasnt given me anything to show this. 
The increase in compensation I recommended was because of the issues Ive mentioned 
with the claim handling. Im not minded reducing this based on conflict that happened at the 
garage.
Based on the above, I still think that this complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen; I think Churchill should do the below to put things right
for Mr W.
Increase the compensation award to Mr W by £100. So, it needs to pay Mr W £575 in 
total. It can deduct any payments it has already made to Mr W off this amount.
Remove the costs associated with the claim made against Mr Ws policy for the CC. 
This means that Mr W shouldnt be liable to pay £600 excess, have his NCD affected 
and the claim should be reported as notification only on any internal or external 
databases.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. U K Insurance Limited  trading as 
Churchill Insurance should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman