DRN-2193924
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S bought a regular premium MPPI policy in April 1998. Both parties cant be 
sure where the policy was sold. The policy and mortgage ended in January 2005.
Mr S and Mrs S say no one explained to them about PPI. They add that they never knew 
they were sold PPI either. They say the policy was mis-sold to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S and Mrs Ss case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr S and Mrs S say no one explained PPI to them and they didnt know it had been 
added to their mortgage. 
I acknowledge everything Mr S and Mrs S has said. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Mr S and Mrs S and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also 
mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mr S and Mrs S has told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware of the policy or that it was optional. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr S and Mrs S and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr S and Mrs S, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for Mrs Ss needs as the person covered by the 
policy. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs S based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs S 
says she would have been able to use sick pay that she thinks would have been 6-9 
months full pay and then half pay as well as £3-4000 savings but, as our adjudicator 
has explained, the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any provisions she 
would have had and for longer. So, the benefit would have been of use to Mrs S 
during a difficult time as she could have used her provisions to pay for other 
expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs S had a need for this cover based on her 
circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr S and Mrs S took out but even though it has provided information on how 
much it cost, it hasnt been able to tell us how much benefit was provided by having 
the cover. They are also not sure where the policy was sold. So, I cannot be sure that 
these costs were disclosed to Mr S and Mrs S in a clear and fair way at the time of 
sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mr S and Mrs S 
would have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the 
reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr S and Mrs S wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr S and 
Mrs Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman