DRN-4298466
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as V, is unhappy with several aspects of the service it
received from Lloyds Bank PLC.
Vs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
To briefly summarise: In March 2021, V received a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) from Lloyds.
During 2022, Mr B tried to contact Lloyds via various channels without success to discuss an
important pending matter and the BBL. And in October 2022 Mr B wrote a letter to Lloyds
advising that he planned to dissolve V and requesting a face-to-face meeting with a relevant
member of Lloyds staff. However, Lloyds didnt respond to these letters.
Shortly afterwards, V missed a payment towards its BBL. And in November 2022, Mr Bs ex-
wife  who had previously been the company secretary of V  spoke with Lloyds and
reiterated that V would be folding. Following this, on 2 December 2022, Lloyds issued a
formal demand for full repayment of the BBL to V.
Upon receiving the formal demand letter, Mr B contacted Lloyds and explained that he no
longer wanted to dissolve V and that V would soon be receiving a significant payment which
would be paid towards the BBL. Mr B further explained that he was unsure exactly when the
payment would be received by V but that it would be before Christmas, but that he was
going to be overseas until the new year and would make the payment to Lloyds upon his
return to the UK.
Mr B honoured his promise to Lloyds and made a made a significant payment towards Vs
BBL on 23 January 2023. However, he then discovered that Lloyds hadnt honoured their
promise to hold Vs account until that time and had passed the account to their collections
and recoveries department.
Mr B wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that Lloyds had spoken with his ex-
wife about Vs account when she wasnt authorised to do so, or with the ongoing difficulties
hed had trying to discuss Vs account with Lloyds, including that Lloyds refused to assign a
single point of contact to Vs account for him to correspond with. So, he raised a complaint
on Vs behalf.
Lloyds accepted that Mr B had experienced difficulties in trying to contact them that he
reasonably shouldnt have, and they apologised to Mr B for this and made payments totalling
£150 to him by way of compensation. However, Lloyds didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly
towards V regarding Vs other points of complaint and felt that theyd administered Vs BBL
account fairly. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred Vs complaint to
this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Lloyds had
issued to Vs complaint  including the payment of £150 compensation  already
represented a fair outcome. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 July 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and 
doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to declare that Lloyds 
have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr B has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding Vs
complaint. Id like to thank Mr B for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal
dispute resolution service.
This means that if Mr B notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read
and considered all the submissions provided by both V and Lloyds. Rather, it should be
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Similarly, I note that Mr B has explained in his submissions to this service how Lloyds
actions have impacted his physical and mental well-being. I can sympathise with Mr B in this
regard. However, because this complaint has been brought to this service in the name of V,
as a limited company  which is because V is the eligible complainant in this instance as per
the rules by which this service must abide  I can only consider how the impact of the events
in question may have affected V, and Im unable to consider any impact that Mr B may have
experienced himself in a personal capacity.
Around the end of September 2022, Mr B wanted to speak with Lloyds about an important
matter pursuant to V. Mr B began trying to contact Lloyds to discuss the matter but found
that he was either unable to get a response or that the Lloyds staff that he was able to speak
with  such as Lloyds branch staff  were unable to help him.
Lloyds have acknowledged this in their responses to Vs complaint, in which they noted that
Mr B had made numerous telephone calls and had experienced high waiting times, and that
Mr B had sent several letters to them and had also gone into branch without success. Lloyds
apologised to Mr B for this, and they made payments totalling £150 as compensation for the
difficulties that Mr B experienced in this regard.
It then appears that Mr B, being frustrated at being unable to have a meaningful discussion
with Lloyds, may have chosen to tell Lloyds, in letters posted to Lloyds in October 2022, that
he intended to dissolve V, when in fact he did not intend to do so  in an attempt to spur
Lloyds into contacting him. And I say this because of the following statement, made by Mr B
to this service following the view of this complaint issued by our investigator:I was trying to get them to respond to a serious situation. What would you do when a
bank refuses to speak with you? I tried to tell them how serious the situation was.
What other lever could I have used?
Lloyds have no record of receiving the first letter that Mr B sent, but they did receive the
second letter, dated 21 October 2022. And this letter states as follows:
I plan on submitting a Companies House DS01 form on Friday 28th October 2022
with a view to dissolving [V].
The letter then goes on to explain how Mr B had tried to contact Lloyds to discuss the issues
associated with dissolving V and asks for confirmation that Lloyds were willing to accept the
dissolvement of V  which would entail Vs debts to Lloyds being written off  or that Lloyds
arrange an in-person meeting with Mr B to discuss potential ways forwards.
Whether Mr B did intend to dissolve V in October 2022 or not, its clear that Lloyds took the
letter from Mr B at face value. And Lloyds notes record that a letter has been received from
Mr B which stated that he intended to dissolve V, but that Lloyds would object to any
dissolvement because of the outstanding BBL balance owed by V at that time.
Additionally, on 7 November 2022, Mr Bs ex-wife telephoned Lloyds and explained that V
had ceased trading and would be dissolved. Furthermore, Mr Bs ex-wife also said that V
wouldnt be able to make any payments towards the BBL moving forwards, and an income
and expenditure review conducted with Mr Bs ex-wife confirmed that there was no
affordability for V to make the BBL payments.
Given the circumstances Ive described above  that Lloyds were told both verbally and in
writing that Mr B was seeking to dissolve V and that Mr Bs ex-wife explained that V wouldnt
be able to afford making payments towards the BBL moving forwards  it doesnt seem
unreasonable to me that Lloyds would move to issue a formal demand to V for full
repayment of the BBL as they did. And this is because I dont feel its unreasonable for
Lloyds to have taken action to try to recover as much of their financial outlay regarding the
BBL balance as they could.
Mr B has explained that his ex-wife resigned as secretary from V several months before she
called Lloyds and that therefore Lloyds werent authorised to speak with his ex-wife
regarding V as they did.
But it appears that Mr B  as director of V  never contacted Lloyds and updated them as to
the fact that his ex-wife was no longer associated with V, or removed the authorisation for
his ex-wife to speak with Lloyds regarding V. And Im satisfied that it was for Mr B, as the
director of V, to update Lloyds in such a way, and that it isnt for Lloyds to check Companies
House every time a business customer calls, as Mr B appears to suggest.
Additionally, Mr B has confirmed in his correspondence with this service that he asked his
ex-wife to call Lloyds on his behalf, and so it seems disingenuous to me that Mr B would ask
his wife to call Lloyds about V and then later complain about Lloyds speaking about V with
his ex-wife  who called Lloyds at his request.
Mr B is also unhappy that, following the issuance of the formal demand notice by Lloyds
dated 2 December 2022, Lloyds didnt honour an agreement he made with them on the
telephone on 6 December 2022 to hold from commencing recovery action on Vs BBL
account and to await a large payment that V would be able to make towards the BBL
sometime shortly after the new year.Mr B explained to Lloyds that V was expecting a large payment into the business but that it
wasnt yet known exactly what date it would be received. And Mr B also explained that
because he was leaving the country for three weeks, if the payment was received by V while
he was away, he would only be able to forward the money to Lloyds upon his return.
However, when Mr B did return to the UK, and did make the payment to Lloyds on Vs behalf
as hed promised to do, he found that Lloyds had already moved Vs BBL account to the
collections and recoveries department  thus going back on the agreement that theyd made.
Mr B has confirmed to this service that he was overseas for just over three weeks. But the
large payment was received by V on 13 December 2022, while Mr B didnt then forward the
money to Lloyds until 23 January 2023  approximately six weeks after it was received. As
such, its difficult to understand why Mr B didnt make the payment to Lloyds sooner than he
did, either before or after he was out of the country for just over three weeks as he was.
Lloyds had issued a formal demand on 2 December 2022 that gave Mr B until 16 December
2022 to take the requisite action. So, given that Mr B appears to have delayed making the
large payment to Lloyds as hed promised, following Vs receipt of that money, it doesnt
seem unfair or unreasonable to me that Lloyds willingness to wait for the payment had
expired or that they moved Vs account to their collections department as they did.
Mr B did try to speak with Lloyds on 6 January 2023 but was unable to pass Lloyds security
questions at that time. Mr B is unhappy about this, but I dont feel its unreasonable for
Lloyds to have asked security questions about the movements on Vs account as they did.
Mr B explains that his ex-wife handled Vs finances and that he doesnt access Vs Lloyds
accounts online. But V does have online banking access. And as Mr B has explained, his ex-
wife hadnt been associated with V for approximately a year at the time of that call. As such,
I dont feel it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have expected Mr B to have had access to the
account movement information needed to pass security, or to then consider Mr B as to have
not passed security when he was unable to answer the questions asked of him.
Finally, Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt assign V a single point of contact with whom he
could speak within Lloyds, or that Lloyds paid compensation into Vs account while the
account was restricted. But Lloyds dont offer a single point of contact for businesses of Vs
size as Mr B would like. This is a commercial decision that Lloyds are entitled to make, and
which was explained to Mr B, and so Im satisfied that Mr Bs expectation in this regard
wasnt reasonable. Similarly, Im satisfied that when Lloyds paid the compensation into Vs
account that the account wasnt restricted at that time, and only became restricted later.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards V regarding most
of the points Ive discussed above. However, I do feel that the difficulties that Mr B, as the
sole director of V, encountered when trying to contact Lloyds, were of greater inconvenience
to V than the currently paid compensation of £150 recognises. As such, Ill be provisionally
upholding this complaint in Vs favour on this limited basis only and instructing Lloyds to pay
a further £150 compensation to a company account belonging to V of Mr Bs choosing.
In taking this position Ive thought about the inconvenience incurred by V as a limited
company by having its directors time taken trying to contact Lloyds. Ive also thought about
the general framework which this service considers when arriving at compensation amounts
for trouble and inconvenience  further details of which can be found on this services
website. And, having considered these factors, I feel that a total compensation amount of
£300  including the £150 that Lloyds have already paid  is a fair amount.
This decision is provisional, and I invite both V and Lloyds to provide any relevant comments
or new information they might wish me to consider before I move to issue a final decision.Any submissions that either party wishes to make must be provided to this service no later
than 22 August 2023.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr B and Lloyds the opportunity to respond and 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
issue a final decision. Lloyds confirmed they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mr B provided a lengthy response.
I wont be responding to all the points that Mr B has raised here, including those Mr B has 
raised which I feel Ive addressed in my provisional decision letter and which I dont feel Mr B 
has provided any new information towards that would cause me to change my position. As 
such, if Mr B notes that I havent addressed a point that hes raised in his response in this 
letter, he should refer to my provisional decision letter in the first instance.
In his response, Mr B has asked me to explain what the remedies are for V to either file for 
bankruptcy or sell the assets of the business to a buyer. But this sits outside the remit of this 
service, which as explained in my provisional decision letter isnt a Court or Law or a 
regulatory body, and doesnt operate as such, but is an informal dispute resolution service 
with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome from an impartial perspective.
I also wont be responding to other points Mr B has raised about matters that sit outside the 
remit of this service. These include Mr Bs dissatisfaction with Lloyds telephone contact 
processes. I realise this may be frustrate Mr B. But I can only reiterate that how Lloyds 
choose to structure its processes are commercial decisions Lloyds are entitled to make. 
Mr B has explained that his ex-wife, as well as being the company secretary, was also the 
finance director and handled the company accounts. And Mr B has explained than when his 
ex-wife left the company he had to try to manage the company accounts on his own, having 
had no training on such matters and with no support.
I can appreciate how this would have been difficult for Mr B. But ultimately, it isnt Lloyds 
fault that Mr B wasnt prepared or reasonably able to manage the company accounts after 
his ex-wife left the company. And, as the remaining director of the company, I feel it was for 
Mr B to have made whatever arrangements were necessary to enable the company to 
continue to function following his ex-wifes departure.
Mr B has questioned my statement that his ex-wife conducted an income and expenditure 
assessment with Lloyds when she spoke with them in November 2022. However, having 
listened to the telephone call in question, Lloyds agent asks Mr Bs ex-wife several 
questions about Vs ability to afford its lending commitments moving forwards, and Mr Bs 
ex-wife clearly advises Lloyds that V wont have the affordability to do so.
Mr B has also expressed his unhappiness with my statement that Lloyds dont offer a single 
point of contact for businesses of Vs size, and notes that he was the only point of contact for 
V because he is the only employee of the company. But my statement here wasnt relation to 
V but was in relation to Lloyds, who dont offer a single point of contact at Lloyds as Mr B 
would like.
Another point raised by Mr B surrounds Lloyds having no record of the first letter he sent to 
them, and he feels that if Lloyds had received that letter, the proposals he made within could 
have allowed Lloyds to have recovered all the money V owed to them, dependent on Lloyds 
support to those proposals. But the support of Lloyds that Mr B feels should have taken 
place here wasnt guaranteed to have been given or required to have been given by Lloyds. 
And Lloyds have confirmed that they have no record of ever receiving that letter.Mr B also draws attention to the agreement he made with Lloyds before he left for his trip 
overseas and regarding his failed attempt to pass Lloyds telephone security protocols upon 
his return. But I dont feel that Mr B has provided any new information regarding these points 
and my position on them remains unchanged. 
Finally, Mr B has reiterated his request that this service instruct Lloyds to arrange a face-to-
face meeting with him to resolve his issues. But its for Mr B to request such a meeting with 
Lloyds himself  although I encourage Lloyds to work with Mr B in this regard, should they 
feel it prudent to do so.
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration with how matters with V have progressed. But I dont feel 
that Mr Bs expectations of the service that Lloyds should provide V are inline with the 
service that Lloyds do provide. Additionally, it doesnt necessarily follow that because the 
processes of a business arent suitable for a specific customer  such as V  that those 
processes are unfair. Rather, it might simply be the case that the business cant or doesnt 
offer the service or the standard of service that the customer wants the business to offer.
It also must be remembered that V didnt meet its payment commitment regarding the BBL. 
Despite Mr Bs complaint to the contrary, Im satisfied that this wasnt Lloyds fault. And 
ultimately, after considering all the information and evidence available to me in relation to 
this complaint, including Mr Bs response to my provisional decision letter, my position on 
this complaint remains unchanged.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Vs favour, Ill only be doing so on the 
limited basis that Lloyds must pay a further £150 compensation to V.
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment of £150 to V.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman