DRN-2802836
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was mis-sold a finance agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc (Santander).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation explains that the finance company (Santander) are responsible for 
what they say and do and what the broker (the dealership here) say and do when 
negotiating the finance agreement. 
So, if Ms M was told something that was false and that led her to enter into an agreement 
she wouldnt have otherwise entered into I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her and Id ask Santander to take some action.
Here, I am persuaded that Ms M was told something that was false. When Ms M agreed to 
the deal she asked specifically if she could make overpayments. But the dealership didnt 
explain that partial payments couldnt be made towards the balloon payment and the 
contract explained that 2.7 you may repay all amounts under this agreement early in part or 
in full. I think a reasonable person would therefore expect, on the information provided, to 
be able to make full or partial payments against the account and the balloon payment. But 
that wasnt the case because Santander have explained system restrictions dont allow 
partial payments against the balloon payment.
I think it was clear that Ms M wanted to pay the whole of this agreement off as soon as 
possible. Had she been told she couldnt make partial payments against the balloon 
payment I think she would have been likely not to have proceeded. So, I think this 
agreement was misrepresented to Ms M.
  
Putting things right
When a misrepresentation is made we usually try to put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. We may ask, for 
instance, for the car to be returned and the finance agreement ended. 
But here Ms M wants to keep the car. 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to tell the business to refund any finance 
instalments Ms M has paid. But Ms Ms use of the car has not been impacted and its only 
fair she pays for the use shes had from it, so I dont think it would be reasonable to refund 
any instalments. 
Im not persuaded Ms M has lost out financially. The balloon payment was a fixed sum and 
there would not have been a reduction in the total sum payable if a partial payment against it 
had been allowed. Whilst Santanders refusal to allow a partial payment against the balloon 
seems to contradict term 2.7 of the finance agreement (above), I can understand their view 
that a part payment against the balloon is not in the customers best interest. It would not 
save Ms M any interest as the balloon payment is a fixed sum. Ms M would therefore be 
better off investing any capital she wanted to pay against the balloon payment until she had 
enough to repay it in full.
But Ms M has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to escalate her complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and she could have been 
provided with better information about the agreement. In those circumstances I think 
Santander should pay her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Ms M £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman