DRN-3813484
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to enable him to enter 
into a new fixed rate mortgage product in the Spring of 2021 and so forced his account onto 
the higher Standard Variable Rate (SVR). He also does not think that RBS should have 
effectively increased his mortgage by creating sub-accounts in order to pay outstanding 
debts to third parties.
What happened
Mr K has held a mortgage on his leasehold property with RBS for many years. As a result of 
unpaid debts in relation to his leasehold property, such as service charges, RBS has created 
several different sub-accounts over the years in order to pay those demands and 
consequently the amount that he owes RBS has increased.
In March 2021 his fixed rate mortgage product, at a lower interest rate than SVR, was due to 
expire. Mr K was unable to use the RBS app in order to carry out the necessary product 
transfer and prevent his debt from being subject to the SVR. As he was overseas, he 
therefore feels he was unfairly barred from making the necessary changes by RBS, and that 
his mortgage account as a whole should be backdated to March 2021 and a preferential rate 
applied.
RBS accepted that it had provided Mr K with some incorrect information about how he could 
sort this out, so it awarded him £100 compensation. Having reviewed the evidence, the 
investigator thought that offer was fair, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K doesnt accept 
that and asked an Ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why.
At the outset, I need to clarify what this decision will cover. It is my statutory role to make 
decisions to resolve disputes based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a particular complaint. Whilst Mr K has raised a wide range of concerns 
about both RBS and a range of other corporate entities, I only have the power, within this 
complaint file, to consider the issues set out in the previous section, and as responded to 
by RBS at the time.
I will first consider the issue of whether it was fair and reasonable for RBS to pay third 
parties for charges related to the property in question, which Mr K has said he was 
unwilling to meet due to disputes with the freeholder/management company of his 
property. Due to those disputes, Mr K doesnt think RBS should have paid these sums.
In short, yes, I think it was fair and reasonable for RBS to do this. That is because unmet 
charges such as these could ultimately lead to Mr Ks lease being rescinded and the 
freeholder taking possession of the property. RBS has confirmed that it only pays these 
debts when it is notified by the leaseholder of legal action through the courts by the 
freeholder or management company. In fact, it only gets to know about the situation 
through the commencement of legal action. So in acting to prevent the threat to the lease, 
RBS was protecting its interest in the property, which is reasonable.
Meeting those unpaid debts led RBS to create a range of sub-accounts on Mr Ks 
mortgage. Which, in turn, caused the situation about which Mr K is now complaining. I 
asked RBS for an explanation as to why it does that, rather than merely adding the 
amounts to the main mortgage account. It explained that is because the ancillary debts 
need to be repaid sooner than the main mortgage. So they cannot be subject to the same 
term as the main mortgage. This works to the benefit of both RBS and Mr K, as he would 
be charged considerably more interest on those amounts were they just to be added to the 
main mortgage. So I dont think it is either unfair or unreasonable for RBS to have created 
these sub-accounts to reflect these additional amounts.
As a result of the number of sub-accounts, RBS has confirmed product transfers cannot be 
processed via online banking  human intervention is required. This appears to be partly 
for technical (that is IT) reasons, and also as a reflection of some of the complexity that this 
number of sub-accounts can bring overall. It is for this reason that Mr K was unable to do a 
product transfer remotely and needed to speak to an RBS advisor.
RBS accepts that a member of its staff incorrectly told Mr K that it was not able to call him 
overseas in order to sort this out. It offered him £100 to reflect the inconvenience that mis-
information caused. It set out in its final response to Mr K of 12 April 2021 that it was 
indeed entirely possible to speak to a mortgage advisor on the telephone, and indeed how 
to request a call-back via the RBS website.
I am unclear whether this product transfer ultimately was concluded to Mr Ks satisfaction, 
although it would appear not. However, if not, I am clear that had nothing to do with Mr Ks 
inability to transact this online. Its clear from the file that he has had several calls with RBS 
staff during the relevant timeframe, and Ive been given no evidence to show that RBS has 
failed to engage with Mr K to discuss the situation. What products may, or may not, have 
been/be available to Mr K is an entirely separate question, and not within this decisions 
remit. The key point is that I dont think RBS has in any meaningful way barred Mr K from 
having those conversations with its advisors and so in that fashion forced him to stay on 
the SVR.
I appreciate that Mr K feels strongly about the situation with his mortgage and how his life 
circumstances interact with that. But the accepted failing by RBS in providing Mr K with 
incorrect information about how it could contact him was quickly put right via its final 
response of 12 April 2021 and appropriately redressed via the offer of £100 compensation.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and RBS doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Siobhan McBrideOmbudsman