DRN-4045055
The complaint
Mr S and Miss E complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
Act) in relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the 
supplier, causing their relationship with Shawbrook to be unfair on them.
Mr S and Miss E is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In April 2018, Mr S and Miss E purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a 
company which Ill call P. they financed it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. 
In May 2021, the CMC made a claim under section 75 and section 140 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. They said that P had made the following misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr S and Miss E to enter into the contract and made their relationship with Shawbrook unfair 
on them:
The system would pay for itself and make a considerable amount of money over its 
lifetime.
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S and 
Miss E or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr S and Miss E and found no reason to uphold the 
complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
The quotation is not accurate against the actual savings the system has produced
Mr S and Miss E were not taken through the quotation which was not produced until 
after the sale had been agreed.
P has a history of misrepresenting the solar panel systems - Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (RECC) found against P.
Ps own sales literature confirms Mr S and Miss Es allegations in terms of the 
system benefits covering the finance.
Mr S and Miss E purchased the system to make money, not to wait 18 years just to 
break even. It is clear that the system would not be appealing to a consumer based 
on the solar quotation in isolation.
There are hundreds of similar allegations of the same sales practices.
The High Court has found in favour of claimants in similar circumstances.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has found in favour of numerous clients in similar 
circumstances, however a document provided after the event which contradicts the 
sales pitch had significant weight attached to it to appear to reverse these previous 
decisions.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56,  section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr S and Miss E and P, as the supplier, are 
deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 75 means that Mr S and Miss E can claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way they could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140 allows the courts to decide whether the relationship between a creditor and 
debtor is unfair on the debtor, including due to things done or not done on its behalf relating 
to a linked agreement, such as by P when selling the system. 
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S and Miss E say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would pay 
for itself and make a considerable amount of money over its lifetime.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr S and Miss Es testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. My understanding is that the quote was generated during the sales meeting and wouldve formed the basis of 
discussions with Mr S and Miss E, before they signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr S and 
Miss Es version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr S and Miss E were told that the cost of the system was 
£13,440.00, the monthly payment was £161.06, the total amount of credit was £13,340.00 
and the total amount payable would be £19427.20.
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£13,440.00, it would cost Mr S and Miss E more than this as they had decided to pay for it 
with an interest-bearing loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments
The quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one and on average over 20 years as 
follows:
I think it is clear from this that Mr S and Miss E could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £341.33. This would be an average monthly income of £28.44. This is less than 
the monthly loan repayment of £161.06. I think these figures wouldve been discussed with 
Mr S and Miss E, so Im not able to conclude that the Mr S and Miss E were told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S and Miss E could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £297.58 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £728.19. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
The quote contains a graph titled Your average annual returns over 25 years with RPI and 
increase in electricity costs against the monthly cost of the system. This clearly shows that 
the monthly payments exceed the savings and income throughout the loan and will be 
recouped (in other words it would have paid for itself) after about 18 years.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr S and Miss E entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £161.15. 
For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£161.15, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly shows that average monthly returns would be less than the loan 
repayment throughout the loan term. 
In summary, I think that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting. So, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr S 
and Miss E were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered during the loan 
term. But it does appear likely that Mr S and Miss E were told the system would pay for itself 
overall  after about 18 years.
Self-funding
I have found that Mr S and Miss E was not told the system would be immediately self-
funding. However, I do accept that Mr S and Miss E were told by P that the system would be 
self-funding over a certain duration of time. The graph shown above predicts the system 
would take around 18 years to pay for itself. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by around year 18 the overall benefits that Mr S 
and Miss E could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Mr S and Miss E that the system would pay for itself after about  18 
years, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, 
and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says the benefits of the system are less than shown in the quote. But I would not 
say the above was a misrepresentation if the difference is due to factors beyond the control 
of P  such as inflation not matching its assumptions or Mr S and Miss E not saving as much 
on their electricity bills, as long as those assumptions were reasonable. 
The FIT statements show that the FIT unit rates received by Mr S and Miss E were as shown 
on the quote in the first year. And the system has generated more electricity than expected. 
This means that the FIT payments initially will have been in line with if not more than 
estimated by P. After that, the FIT unit rates would be affected by inflation, which may not 
have matched the assumptions. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2007 and August 2018, to calculate 
the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the 
sale and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale 
and I think this partly explains why Mr S and Miss E havent been receiving the financial 
returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices 
have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy 
generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
The savings made would also depend on how Mr S and Miss E use electricity, which is 
beyond the control of P. So, they may have saved less than predicted. 
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2007 to August 2018. And based on this, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial 
income Mr S and Miss E couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can 
appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im 
not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time 
Mr S and Miss E entered into the contract.
The CMCs additional comments
I have taken into account the RECC disciplinary findings and the additional documents 
provided, which the CMC says were training materials used by P. But I have found the 
evidence from Mr S and Miss Es actual sale to be more persuasive and relevant in deciding 
if P misrepresented the system to them. 
The RECC findings were made some years before Mr S and Miss E were sold their system. 
So, it is not clear that the practices that RECC criticised were ongoing. The training 
documents are undated. It is unclear when they were produced or how and when they were 
used by P. I note that one of the documents describes a different type of no-deposit loan  
which is not what Mr S and Miss E used to pay for the system. So, Im not persuaded these 
documents are more relevant than the documents from Mr S and Miss Es actual sale. 
The CMC provided a high court decision. But I can see this was not a sale by P and did not 
involve Shawbrook. The sales documents described in the decision are far less detailed than 
those provided to Mr S and Miss E. So, with such different evidence presented I do not think 
it is unreasonable to reach a different decision. 
I, and other ombudsmen at the Financial Ombudsman Service, have upheld complaints 
about the sale of solar panel systems. But I have only done so where Ive been satisfied 
there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier, or where I 
thought it was likely that the courts would conclude the relationship between the creditor and 
debtor was unfair on the debtor. That is not the case here.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S and 
Miss E to enter into the contract for the system, and I have not found any reason to conclude 
that the relationship between Mr S and Miss E and Shawbrook was unfair on them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S and Miss Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman