DRN-2040766
The complaint
Mr R complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where the complaint is about a claim on 
an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with that claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance company, but we dont identify (or give details 
which might identify) any other party.
For the year from mid-November 2018, Mr R had a policy branded with the name of an 
insurance intermediary. The policy covered Mr R and his son as a named driver.
Acromas was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to 
Acromas I include the intermediary and others insofar as I hold Acromas responsible for their 
actions.
Mr R and his son each had an allotment. Mr Rs son had a position of responsibility for all 
the allotments.
On 4 May 2019, the driver of a third party vehicle made a claim that Mr R had damaged the 
third party vehicle in the car park at the allotments.
Later the third party contacted Acromas. In mid-May 2019 Acromas phoned Mr R. It said it 
would accept liability. With help from his son, Mr R complained about the telephone call. 
Acromas sent a final response letter dated 15 July 2019. It upheld the complaint and said it 
was sending Mr R £100.00.
Mr R complained that Acromas had treated him as liable for the damage. He also 
complained about the way Acromas communicated, dealt with returning calls and dealt with 
a subject access request (SAR).
Acromas wrote a final response dated 18 December 2019.  It didnt uphold the complaint 
about liability, but it did accept that it made mistakes in the way it dealt with Mr R. Acromas 
apologised and offered £150.00 in compensation.
Unhappy with the final responses, Mr R brought his complaint to us in early January 2020.
Our investigator dealt with the complaint as a complaint against the intermediary. He didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the intermediary had acted 
correctly in settling the claim with the third party. The investigator thought the intermediary 
had made mistakes in communicating with Mr R and his son. But he said the intermediary 
had apologised and offered enough compensation for Mr Rs trouble and upset.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. His son says, in summary, that:
Mr R was recovering from a heart procedure.
Mr Rs son was on his allotment next to the car park. He saw an unknown white car 
reverse into a space. The white car did not stay; it left the site practically immediately. 
Then Mr R arrived and reversed into the same parking space which was next to his 
sons car and in between the third partys vehicle.
Mr Rs car didnt come into contact with the third partys.
Two younger people from the third party vehicle bullied Mr R.
In fear of his life and to defuse the situation, as well as thinking of his son, Mr R 
agreed to pay for the alleged damage as he thought that it wouldnt cost much as it 
was such a small scratch.
Acromas made a cold call to Mr R. It didnt investigate or receive evidence to support 
the third partys claim.
There are unfair assumptions about Mr Rs driving, due to his age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurers treat a claim as a fault claim unless and until they make a full recovery 
of their outlay.
Unlike a court, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt hear from the policyholder and the 
third party in order to decide the extent to which either of them is responsible for causing 
damage.
Rather we look into whether the policyholders insurer has acted in a reasonable way.
Mr Rs son was on his allotment next to the car park. He saw the third party vehicle park. 
And I have no reason to doubt that he also saw another vehicle park next to the third party 
vehicle but then leave. 
Mr Rs son saw Mr R arrive and park next to the third party. He didnt see any contact and 
his father didnt mention any.
However, when two people from the third party vehicle sought him as the owner of the 
vehicle parked next to theirs, Mr R offered to pay to fix some minor damage to the third party 
vehicle.
I accept that Mr R made that offer in order to end a confrontation and out of consideration for 
his son.However, it is my view that from that moment onwards it became very difficult for Acromas to 
argue that Mr R wasnt liable for damaging the third party vehicle. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr R reported the incident to Acromas. But within a week 
the third party had made a claim to its insurer and that insurer had made a claim to Acromas. 
I dont think it makes any difference that the third party was an organisation and that its 
vehicle was in the possession of one of its employees.
Acromas had received a claim from the third party and it had to deal with it.
Acromas has accepted that it didnt handle its first call to Mr R well. And  when his son rang 
 I dont think Acromas managed his expectations properly.
Acromas had written to Mr R saying that it would settle the third partys claim. But after his 
sons call, it disputed liability. The third party then sent Acromas its drivers statement and 
sketch.
In the context of minor damage and Mr Rs offer to pay for it, Im satisfied that Acromas did a 
reasonable and proportionate investigation. 
Acromas decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of court proceedings  it would 
settle the third partys claim. Acromas paid the third party in early October 2019. I consider 
that it was Mr Rs offer  rather than his age or any other factor that led Acromas to make 
that decision.
As there was no way Acromas could recover its outlay, it treated the claim as a fault claim 
against Mr R. 
I cant say its decision was unreasonable.
Acromas has accepted that it didnt communicate with Mr R as well as it should have. Mr R 
received his renewal notice for the year from mid-November 2019 mentioning the claim and 
with an increased premium. So his son revived his complaint.
In its final response in mid-December 2019, Acromas maintained its decision on liability but 
accepted the complaint in respect of its communication and its response to the SAR.
Ive thought about the shortcomings in the service of Acromas. I dont find that they made 
any difference to its decision on liability. But I do find that the shortcomings caused Mr R 
extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for Mr R and his son.
Acromas said it was sending Mr R a cheque for £150.00. I find that, together, the payments 
of £100.00 and £150.00 were fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience in Mr Rs case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont direct Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman