DRN-3556325
The complaint
Miss A complains Modulr FS Limited unfairly stopped her using the account she opened and 
hasnt returned her funds. She wants the funds returned and compensation for the loss and 
distress she says she experienced.
What happened
Miss A held an account with a firm for which Modulr FS Limited is responsible as principal. 
She wanted to use the account to trade cryptocurrency which she says she has traded for a 
number of years. 
She made a large deposit from a current account she held with a third-party bank to her 
Modulr account, but when she tried to commence trading she discovered she couldnt. 
Meanwhile her bank closed her current account.
Modulr at first told Miss A there was a technical error. It then said the problem was due to 
suspicious activity on her wallet and it needed her to open another account and verify 
herself, which she did. She was then asked for source of funds information about the large 
deposit she made and to provide bank statements from her former bank. 
After receiving the statements, Modulr asked Miss A for information about two large 
payments into her current account which she received the same day she deposited the 
funds to her Modulr account. It asked for evidence to show where the payments came from. 
Miss A said the payments were from selling cryptocurrency, but the trading platform she 
used no longer held the records for the transactions in question. Modulr then appears to 
have told her it would transfer her funds to the new account she had verified.
Modulr later decided to close Miss As account immediately and return the funds it held to 
Miss As former bank. Miss A told Modulr her former bank had no record of the funds being 
returned and the payments would have bounced back because her current account had 
been closed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. They concluded Modulr could close her 
account immediately in line with its terms and conditions. They also concluded Modulrs 
decision to send the funds back to her former bank was in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations, and it had returned the funds.
Miss A asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint was given to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
Modulr has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers, including fiat currency and cryptocurrency wallets. Those obligations are 
ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. They can broadly be summarized 
as a responsibility to know their customer and verify the origin of their sources of income, 
which can include occasional transactions, such as large deposits.
Modulr will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential breaches of its obligations that could otherwise arise. So, Im satisfied Modulrs 
decision not to initially allow Miss A access to the funds was fair.
Miss A said the two large payments she received into her current account  the account 
used to fund her Modulr account - represented payments from selling cryptocurrency. But 
she didnt provide transactional records to demonstrate the payments in question derived 
from this activity. She says this was because the trading platform she used doesnt retain 
records after a period of time. This may be so, but this didnt mean Modulr should have been 
satisfied about the source of the payments, considering the important obligations it has. 
Neither do I find her having a good reputation from trading cryptocurrency on other platforms 
lessened those obligations.
I understand Miss As disappointment when Modulr told her it was going to send the funds 
back to her former bank when it had previously indicated it would release the funds to her. 
And, I was sorry to hear how she said she was affected in terms of her business and her 
wider financial and personal circumstances. But on balance, Im satisfied Modulr acted in 
line with its legal and regulatory responsibilities, and it wouldnt be reasonable to direct it to 
pay her compensation based on the individual circumstances of her complaint.
Im satisfied the information available to me establishes that Modulr returned the funds to an 
account belonging to her former bank, and its clear the funds didnt bounce back. Miss A 
has subsequently received a final response letter from her former bank which confirmed it 
received the funds, but its not returning them to her. 
What Miss As former bank has done with the funds it received is not Modulrs responsibility. 
Miss A has brought a complaint about her former bank to our service, which is currently 
being investigated, but that complaint has no bearing on my findings in relation to Modulr.
Modulr could also decide to end its customer relationship with Miss A at any time. Generally, 
our service would not interfere with a firm exercising its commercial discretion. I have, 
however, considered Modulrs reason(s) for closing her account and Im satisfied its decision 
was legitimate and the account could be closed immediately.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman