DRN-3675584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the time taken by AXA Insurance UK Plc to deal with an 
escape of water in their home.
What happened
The bathroom of Mr and Mrs Hs property suffered a leak and caused further damage 
downstairs. Although they chased AXA repeatedly they felt the insurers response was very 
slow. The repair work took nearly a year and still wasnt fully completed. 
Mr and Mrs H said they hadnt been able to use the downstairs of their house since the leak. 
And theyve had to put up with all of their belongings being piled up in the upstairs rooms. So 
theyd like suitable compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the length of time 
taken to put things right.
AXA apologised for the amount of time itd taken to deal with Mr and Mrs Hs claim. It 
shouldve been resolved sooner. And Mr and Mrs H shouldve been kept in touch with how 
things were progressing. AXA recognised the inconvenience Mr and Mrs H had been put to. 
And itd offered £250 compensation for their trouble.
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with AXAs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator could see the claim hadnt been 
managed to the level AXA expected to offer. But AXA had offered to pay compensation of 
£250 in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs H. Our investigator felt that 
was fair in the circumstances. And she wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. Theyre unhappy with some of the workmanship in addition to the poor 
management. And they dont feel the amount offered is enough to compensate for the toll 
this has taken on their family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting this must have been for Mr and Mrs H. The leak occurred in 
August 2021 and some strip-out and drying had taken place by the end of the following 
month. But further drying out was required and only completed at the end of November. 
This wouldve been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs H. So I can understand their upset when a 
dispute about what work was needed and the costs involved caused a further delay before 
the repairs started. 
As our investigator has explained, this complaint deals with the period from the escape of 
water in August 2021 until May 2022 when it was referred to this service. So Ive carefully 
considered whats happened during that time. And what AXA has done to put things right.
AXA has accepted things couldve been handled better. Its offered a total of £250 
compensation for the delays leading up to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and for failing to keep 
Mr and Mrs H updated. I can see AXA has also paid £100 compensation for sub-standard 
repair work to the skirting boards. And that was accepted by Mr and Mrs H in relation to that 
particular issue.
I do understand how upsetting this will have been for Mr and Mrs H. Leaks from one floor to 
another can cause damage that requires extensive drying and repair work. And it can create 
a lot of upheaval and inconvenience for the entire family while the repairs are completed. 
AXA accepted the claim under Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance policy. Having done so I 
would expect them to try and put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they were in before the 
incident occurred. And Id expect them to do so as quickly as reasonably possible. 
Unfortunately any claim for damage following an escape of water is likely to cause some 
inconvenience and stress. And depending upon the amount of damage this can take some 
time to fully put right. AXA has accepted Mr and Mrs H werent kept updated as often as they 
shouldve been. And the insurer has apologised for the unsatisfactory delays.
I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. And I hope they have begun to 
put things back to normal following the leak. 
But based on everything Ive seen I think AXAs offer of £250 compensation for the delays 
and poor communication is fair and reasonable given whats happened. And its in line with 
the sort of award our service would make in similar circumstances. So I wont be asking AXA 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman