DRN-3727084
The complaint
This complaint is about Nationwide Building Societys refusal to lend to Mr B and Ms O, in 
the form of a later life mortgage, often referred to as an equity release mortgage.
What happened
Mr B and Ms O have previously complained to our service about the decision of their insurer, 
in response to a claim for subsidence. They have also previously complained about the role 
that Nationwide (which was their former lender as well as the respondent to the complaint at 
hand here) played when they first purchased their home, with respect to whether they should 
have been alerted to these problems then. 
I understand Mr B and Ms O feel the actions of their lender when they first purchased their 
home, and of their insurer more recently, are all firmly linked to the current complaint. But 
this complaint deals with a different issue, Nationwides refusal to allow Mr B and Ms O to 
release equity in their home, to fund repairs and adaptations to their home. 
It appears that Mr B and Ms O previously asked a different lender for an equity release 
mortgage. A survey was carried out on their home, which revealed a subsidence issue. And 
an insurance claim for repairs was then declined. Mr B and Ms O subsequently asked 
Nationwide if it would lend, and it has declined.
Nationwide says that its decision in November 2020 to refuse an equity release mortgage, 
(which it calls a later life mortgage) was because of a debt management plan showing on 
the credit profile of one of the applicants. Nationwide said the decision wasnt based on the 
condition of the property.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Nationwide confirmed it 
wouldnt lend to Mr B and Ms O, because one of them was in a debt management plan. Our 
investigator said this was one of Nationwides lending criteria, and he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to have refused to lend to Mr B and Ms O for this reason. 
Our investigator said that because the application had been refused at such a very early 
stage, the condition of Mr B and Ms Os property hadnt played any part in the decision. 
Mr B wrote on behalf of himself and Ms O. He wanted to challenge the decisions on his 
previous two complaints, and he thought the issues hed raised in those complaints should 
have been considered here. But our investigator didnt agree. He noted our service had said 
Mr Bs two previous complaints were out of time, so our investigator looked at the only issue 
he could consider, the refusal of an equity release mortgage. And this decision by 
Nationwide just wasnt linked in any way to the condition of Mr B and Ms Os property.
Mr B sent further arguments about why we should consider the condition of his property, and 
reconsider its previously expressed views on his other complaints. He also said the condition 
of his property, and Nationwides previous involvement in its purchase, some years ago, 
were special circumstances which were not fully represented in the writeup of the case 
history. He wanted to know if this would result in any discretion in Nationwides lending rules.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Nationwide told Mr B and Ms O that it would not lend to them because of the debt 
management plan that one of them is in. Im satisfied that was the reason, and the only 
reason, that Nationwide wouldnt lend to Mr B and Ms O. I think this is a reasonable decision 
by Nationwide, and I dont think its unfair. 
Its not appropriate for me to reach any decision here on matters that fall outside of this case, 
so I make no wider comment on the complaints Mr B and Ms O have previously brought to 
our service. However, I note that Mr B and Ms O are firmly of the view that the issues over 
the condition of their property are raised in this case. They have argued that Nationwide 
should give their case special consideration, because of its role in the original purchase of 
their home. But I dont think the decision which is the subject of this complaint, the decision 
Nationwide took in 2020 not to lend to Mr B and Ms O, is related to the condition of their 
home. That decision was based on the credit file position of the couple. So I dont agree with 
Mr B and Ms O that the condition of their property is in any way relevant to this complaint. 
I know that Mr B and Ms O will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman