DRN-3770454
The complaint
Ms C complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans 
which she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Ms C took a total of four loans from Morses. However, Morses doesnt have any information 
about loan one. This is likely due to the amount of time that has passed since it was granted 
and repaid. Ms Cs representative also hasnt provided any details about the first loan either.
In addition, Morses initially told Ms Cs representative that she had a total of 12 loans. 
However, when the Financial Ombudsman asked for details of the remaining loans which 
were granted after loan 4 in the table below. Morses informed the Financial Ombudsman 
that the information it gave to her representative wasnt correct  this was due to an 
administrative error. Morses has confirmed, that only the loans in the table listed below 
related to Ms C. Therefore, this decision only deals with those loans.  
For loans that information has been provided for, Ms C borrowed from Morses between 
August and December 2013. A summary of her borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
2 £500.00 27/08/2013 sold 50 £17.50
3 £100.00 04/10/2013 07/05/2014 32 £5.00
4 £300.00 04/12/2013 sold 50 £10.50
Ms C had some problems repaying loans 2 and 4 and these were sold to a third-party debt 
collection agency in February 2017. 
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped the 
cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2  4 were running at the same time, 
Ms Cs commitment was £33 per week. 
Following Ms Cs complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Ms Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He thought that given what was apparent 
to Morses at the time each loan was granted than it made a reasonable decision to lend. He 
did say, perhaps for the later loans further checks needed to have been carried out but the 
adjudicator hadnt seen anything that wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were 
unsustainable. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Ms Cs representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms C could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Cs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms C was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
Before these loans was approved, Morses likely took details of Ms Cs income and 
expenditure. However, due to the passage of time since these loans were approved Morses 
no longer has the details of the information that it collected from Ms C. In addition, the 
Financial Ombudsman hasnt received any information from Ms Cs representative about 
what her income and expenditure may have been at the time. 
Given the lack of information from both parties, I cant fairly say that the income and 
expenditure checks wouldve showed Morses that these loans were either unaffordable or 
unsustainable for Ms C. In addition, its possible, that a credit search was carried out at some point in the lending 
relationship. However, for the same reasons as above, due to the passage of time, Morses 
hasnt been able to provide the results of any credit search it may have carried out. 
Given it was early in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Ms C likely gave it. These checks likely showed the loans were 
affordable, so I think a reasonable decision was made to provide it. 
There also wasnt anything else that I can see that wouldve led Morses to have concluded 
that either the loans werent affordable for Ms C or there was some other reason that may 
have led it to conclude the lending was no longer sustainable  such as previous repayment 
problems.  
Considering a number of factors such as the time in debt, Im concluding that Morses likely 
carried out a proportionate check which likely showed it these loans were affordable. 
Ms C did have some problems repaying loans 2 and 4 but these problems begun after loan 
four was advanced, and so Morses wouldnt have been aware of this or have been able to 
consider it as part of its affordability assessment at the time these loans were approved. 
Overall, given the very limited information that I have to hand, I cant fairly conclude Morses 
made an error when it approved these loans.  
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman