DRN-4222577
The complaint
Q, a limited company complains U K Insurance Limited voided its Tradesmans Insurance 
policy and didnt pay a claim it made on it. Q is represented by its director, Mr E. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr E made a claim on Qs policy following a theft of tools. As part of its 
consideration of the claim UKI found there was an outstanding County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) issued in March 2019 against a business which Mr E was a director of. 
It said when taking out this policy in November 2020 hed answered No to the question 
Has anyone with a financial interest in the business, including you, your family, or any 
partner/principal/director, received a County Court Judgement (CCJ) regarding debt (either 
as an individual or in connection with a business)? UKI thought Mr E should have should 
have told it about the CCJ in answer to that question. If he had done it wouldnt have offered 
cover at all. So it said it would be voiding Qs policy from the start (and wouldnt be paying 
the claim). 
Our investigator thought Mr E should have told UKI about the CCJ and was satisfied it 
wouldnt have offered cover if hed done so. So he thought it was entitled to void the policy. 
And after the complaint had been made to us UKI said it was prepared to accept the non- 
disclosure wasnt deliberate or reckless. It said it would refund the premiums Q paid for the 
policy which our investigator also thought was fair. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said he didnt know about the CCJ when taking out the policy and it 
didnt show on his credit report. And hed now been successful in having it set aside. He 
didnt mean to misrepresent the position in order to obtain insurance. He highlighted the 
impact on Q of the decline of its insurance claim and the policy voidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this issue has had a significant impact on Q and its ability to trade. But the 
question for me is whether UKI did anything wrong in turning down its claim and voiding its 
policy. As this was a commercial policy the relevant law is the Insurance Act 2015. That says 
when taking out the policy Q had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk. So it had to 
disclose: 
everything it knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the insurers judgment 
in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
enough information to put the insurer on notice that it needed to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any available information and consider if theres anything 
they ought to disclose.
In this case its not in dispute that UKI asked when the policy was taken out (and at renewal) 
whether anyone with a financial interest in the business, including you, your family, or any 
partner/principal/director, received a County Court Judgement (CCJ) regarding debt (either 
as an individual or in connection with a business)? Mr E answered no to that question. 
However, a business hed been the sole director of did have a CCJ against it so that answer 
wasnt correct. Mr E says he didnt know about that. But I think its likely information about 
that would have been sent to the registered address of that business. And while I appreciate 
information about the CCJ didnt appear on Mr Es personal credit file the question also 
asked about a CCJ in connection with a business. I think making reasonable checks (in line 
with the requirements of the Insurance Act) would have included checking the position in 
relation to that business as well. 
I appreciate Mr E has subsequently been successful in having the CCJ set aside but its the 
position as it applied when Q took the policy out (and at renewal) thats relevant here. I think 
the CCJ is something Q should have told UKI about. And because it didnt, I dont think its 
made a fair presentation of risk. UKI says it wouldnt have offered cover if it had been aware 
of this. Its provided underwriting evidence in support of that so Im satisfied thats the case. 
Where an insurer can show it would have done something different, had there been a fair 
presentation of risk, this is known as a qualifying breach. If an insurer can show a 
qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless it can avoid the contract and doesnt need to 
return any of the premiums paid. If the breach wasnt deliberate or reckless but the insurer 
wouldnt have entered into the contract it can avoid the contract but must return the 
premiums paid. In this case UKI has now accepted the breach wasnt deliberate or reckless. 
So while its entitled to void the policy it needs to return the premiums paid. 
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has now agreed to refund the premiums Q paid for this policy which I 
think is a fair way of resolving this complaint. So my decision is it needs to do that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman