DRN-3437256
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about what happened after they brought a legal expenses insurance 
claim to Amtrust Europe Limited.
All references to Amtrust include its agents
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were due to fly to London in November 2020. After their flight was cancelled 
their airline offered an alternative flight the next day to Birmingham. Mr and Mrs H had to 
incur additional costs, such as accommodation and travel, because of the change.
After failing to get compensated for their additional costs from the airline, Mr and Mrs H 
lodged a claim with Amtrust on 5 July 2021 in connection with the cancelled flights. Amtrust 
instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors (P) to conduct a prospects assessment. P 
reported to Amtrust that although Mr and Mrs Hs claim against the airline may enjoy 
prospects of success, it wasnt proportionate to pursue. It was noted that the prospects of 
success were dependent on why the original flights were cancelled.
P explained that the maximum claim value would be £923.32, which included £700 
compensation under what is known as the Sturgeon ruling and £223.32 for expenses, such 
as accommodation and travel.
P said to Amtrust that as the costs in pursuing this claim would outweigh the maximum value 
of the claim, it wouldnt be proportionate to pursue. Therefore, Mr and Mrs Hs claim was 
declined. Amtrust offered them £323.32 to be used for court costs in pursuing the claim in a 
small claims court by themselves.
Mr and Mrs H brought a complaint to our service with the following points:
They disagree with the decision to decline their claim due to proportionately, as the 
amount they are claiming is substantial and they feel that it should not be declined 
on the basis that its not large enough for the insurer to pursue.
They disagree with the decision to deduct £600 from the total amount of the claim for 
the cost of preparing the prospects assessment by P, as this is not something that 
was requested by them; and 
They do not know how to progress a claim in the small claims court and feel that they 
should be entitled to legal assistance, as well as a claim handler who would assist in 
lodging the claim with the small claims court.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she wouldnt expect 
Amtrust to fund a legal action that a prudent consumer would not pursue themselves if their 
legal advice  as is the case here - was that the costs were likely to be more than the 
amount they were claiming. She couldnt see that Amtrust were required to pay Mr and 
Mrs H anything under the terms of the insurance. And given the advice that the cost of legal 
action wasnt proportionate she said Amtrust would not be in a position to authorise costs 
towards any advice or a solicitor acting on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf as their claim is not 
proportionate to pursue.
Mr and Mrs H have asked for an ombudsmans decision. They are really confused about the 
proportionality clause that is. how would the recovered funds relate to what is being paid? 
They say one amount is by no means linked to the other as they impact separate bodies. 
What is a small change to a large business is a rather substantial amount for a small 
individual. They think that the main reason retail clients would purchase legal coverage 
would be, most of the time, for relatively small claims and not big tort actions. They really 
struggle to see how Amtrust helping them with at least putting the claim together is 
considered something that Amtrust should not be expected to do. They could then handle 
the court appearance if needed, but they think that Amtrust could at least prepare and file 
the claim. They think it would probably take Amtrust an hour to do a proper job and it would 
take them days to file most likely something incorrectly. They think it is grossly unfair to a 
retail person who had encountered losses at a corporate's expense.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs frustration here. They have incurred costs - through no fault of 
their own - and want to be able to get their money back using help provided by their legal 
expenses insurance. They have been told that their insurer wont fund legal action because it 
is not proportional, but it will give them something towards the costs of them making a claim 
themselves. And the something their insurer has offered has been reduced by the amount 
the insurer has paid to the law firm which said the claim wasnt proportional. They want their 
insurer to at least help with them preparing their claim, but it wont. I can see how this would 
seem unfair to Mr and Mrs H. But Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ive explained why 
below.
Mr and Mrs Hs insurance states that:
There is no cover where: -
a) 
b) An estimate of Advisers Costs of acting for you is more than the amount in dispute
The evidence I have seen is that Amtrust has obtained expert advice from P and P has said:
An approximate figure for pre-action correspondence for this matter would be around 
£1,000.00 to £2,000.00. It estimates the costs of issuing proceedings would add a further 
£3000 to £4000.
As the estimate for the Advisers Costs of acting for Mr and Mrs H is more than the amount 
in dispute, then I think Amtrust acted reasonably in withdrawing cover and in line with the 
policy. I dont think it would be fair to expect an insurer to pay costs that a reasonably 
prudent consumer wouldnt pay themselves. It isnt about the size of the bodies involved as 
Mr and Mrs H suggest. Its about saying its not sensible to spend in legal fees more money 
than you are claiming.
Amtrust offered Mr and Mrs H £323.32 to be used for court costs in pursuing the claim in a 
small claims court. The figure of £323.32 was arrived at by deducting from the maximum 
value of the claim as assessed by P (£923.32) the amount Amtrust had spent on Ps fees 
(£600).
Mr and Mrs H dont understand why £600 was deducted as they didnt ask for the legal 
assessment. I understand what they are saying but an assessment was needed to be done 
for the claim to proceed. And in any event as I have found that Amtrust was entitled to withdraw cover then I cant say I think its offer to them of £323.32 to be used for court costs 
in pursuing the claim in a small claims court is unfair.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H would like more help with their small claims court proceedings but 
I think Amtrust has provided what it is required to do under the insurance and so I cant say it 
is unfair not to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman