DRN-1963933
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) issued inaccurate statements for 
her UK bond investments between 2015 and 2017; that she used these statements for a Tier 
1 (Investor) Migrant immigration application  the application  which was rejected in 2018 
because the statements categorised her investments as foreign bonds/investments, not UK 
investments as the application required; that Barclays subsequently corrected its error but 
she incurred costs in having to prepare and re-submit the application. 
Ms C seeks recovery of her costs and compensation for trouble and upset caused to her.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded as follows:
Barclays statements described Ms Cs UK bonds as foreign bonds and did so 
inconsistently. It has apologised for describing them as foreign bonds.
He was not persuaded by Barclays explanation of the error, but he noted that it had 
offered Ms C £150 for the inconvenience caused to her. Initially, he considered this a 
fair offer. Upon review of the trouble and upset caused to her, he proposed that the 
offer should be increased to £300.
However, he was also not persuaded by Ms Cs claim that Barclays is responsible for 
the costs she incurred in preparing and re-submitting the application.
First, he noted that Barclays was not aware  at the relevant time  that the 
statements were being used for the application; and that it was Ms Cs responsibility 
to have checked the accuracy of the statements before using them for the 
application. He took the view that, had she checked the statements, she would have 
identified the errors and addressed them with Barclays before the application was 
submitted  and that the costs she incurred in re-submitting the application resulted 
because she had not done this.
An additional point he noted was that the application appeared to have been rejected 
for a secondary reason, unrelated to Barclays errors in the bonds description. 
However, upon Ms Cs clarification of the secondary matter he agreed that the errors 
in the bonds description were the direct cause of the application being initially 
rejected.
Barclays agreed to increase its offer to £300 and it repeated its acknowledgement of the 
trouble and upset Ms C had faced in the matter. Ms C conceded that Barclays was indeed 
unaware that the statements were being used for the application and that, on this basis, it 
should not be fully responsible for the costs she claims, but she maintained that it should 
hold some responsibility in the matter for producing inaccurate information. She did not 
consider that the increased offer was sufficient in this respect. She said Barclays should, at 
least, compensate her for the fees she incurred in getting legal advice for the re-submitted 
application.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator and I do 
not uphold Ms Cs complaint.
The following facts of her complaint do not appear to be in dispute  Barclays statements 
wrongly described her UK bonds as foreign bonds; Barclays was unaware that she was 
using the statements for the application; the application failed because of the way in which 
the statements described the bonds; when the matter was brought to Barclays attention it 
provided a correction; Ms C subsequently re-submitted the application (with the correction), 
at her costs, and it was thereafter successful.
Given that Barclays has essentially accepted the investigators view, the main issue to 
determine is Ms Cs view that, despite the investigators point about her failure to check the 
statements before using them for the application, Barclays should share responsibility for the 
matter (to the minimum extent of covering the legal fees she incurred in re-submitting the 
application). I disagree.
I consider that the investigators observation about Ms Cs responsibility in the application 
process is both valid and key to the complaint  coupled with the fact that Barclays was 
unaware that the statements were being used for the application. Barclays has also made an 
argument that suggests Ms C was misguided in using the statements without first verifying 
that it was appropriate to do so. 
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that primary (and majority) responsibility in the 
above respects rested with Ms C. Given the importance of the application, she should have 
checked the accuracy of the statements and she should have involved Barclays in that  
before submitting any information about her bond investments with the application. As the 
investigator said, had she done this the description of her bonds could have been properly 
determined and confirmed before submission of the initial application  the implication being 
that the first application would probably have been successful, and she would have avoided 
the costs incurred in re-submitting it.
Having said the above, Barclays does retain its share of responsibility in the matter given the 
way in which the bonds were wrongly portrayed as foreign bonds in the statements. I have 
noted its initial argument about how this resulted from the relevant ISIN numbers but there is 
evidence of its inconsistent description of the bonds in statements. They were wrongly 
described as foreign bonds and that contributed to the complaint matter  but, for the 
reasons given above, not to the extent of making Barclays responsible for the re-submission 
of the application. I consider that, for the trouble and upset caused to Ms C by Barclays 
error in describing her bonds, £300 is fair compensation. It is broadly consistent with the type 
of awards for trouble and upset made by this service in comparable matters.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded by Ms Cs claim for compensation (for the costs 
of re-submitting the application) but I consider that Barclays should pay her £300 for the 
trouble and upset caused to her.
Putting things right
Barclays must pay Ms C £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint but only with regards to 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
her £300 in this respect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman