DRN-1416293
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt give her clear information about a 
balance transfer on her credit card.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs M called up and spoke to someone at Tesco to ask about their 0% interest 
rates on balance transfers. She says they offered her 0% for 20 months, but felt they werent 
very clear.
She did the transfer online but says the website didnt tell her what the interest rate was. She 
transferred £4,000 initially, but then when she received her first statement, she realised 
shed been charged interest higher than she expected. Because of this, she complained to 
Tesco.
Tesco replied and said they had told Mrs M correctly there were no 0% offers available on 
her account but accepted there may have been a miscommunication. They believed Mrs M 
was calling to ask about a new application, rather than transferring a balance to her existing 
credit card. Because of this, they refunded three months worth of interest payments, paid 
her £75, and gave her a three-month interest free waiver. The idea of the waiver was to 
allow Mrs M to make alternative arrangements for her balance transfer if she wished to. 
Tesco also refunded two fees of £12 for going over her credit card limit at this time.
Unhappy with this Mrs M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and he 
felt Tesco had put things right. He said he didnt think theyd given Mrs M unclear 
information, either on the phone or online. And he felt their offer to resolve the matter was 
fair.
Mrs M said she didnt agree that Tesco offering a three-month interest free waiver would put 
her back into the position she was in, if she couldnt manage to find another 0% offer in that 
time. She also said the monthly payments to her credit card, including the interest she feels 
she shouldnt have been charged were taken from her bank account, but the interest refund 
was paid to her credit card rather than her current account  so shes worse off there. She 
also felt Tesco werent very clear on the phone when talking to her. Because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M called up after reducing her existing credit card balance to zero  asking about 0% 
balance transfer offers.
The original person she spoke to may not have been very clear, but afterwards she spoke to 
someone in Tescos new business area. Ive listened to this call. I think he was clear in 
explaining Mrs M would have to apply for a new card in order to benefit from the 0% interest 
rate. And he laid out the terms for a 0% rate for 20 months, as well as terms for 0% for 28 
months. He also suggested itd be quicker for Mrs M to do this online.
Tesco said when responding to the complaint Mrs M applied for a balance transfer to her 
existing card, rather than a new card  and from all the evidence Ive seen this is correct. 
Rather than doing a new application, as Mrs M may have intended to after the call with 
Tesco, she unfortunately did a balance transfer to her existing card. This explains why she 
wasnt told what the interest rate was when applying online  as she was transferring the 
balance to her existing card, so the same interest rate would apply.
Tesco have said there may have been some miscommunication from the first call to the 
second call. Having listened to calls Mrs M has had with Tesco I think its clear that initial call 
did create some confusion for Mrs M, so I think its fair something is done to acknowledge 
that.
Tesco have refunded three months worth of interest totalling over £200, two over limit fees 
caused by the interest being applied totalling £24, and they gave Mrs M a further three 
months interest free on her credit card balance. They also paid her £75 compensation for 
what happened.
In all the circumstances of this case I think thats fair. I say that because, although the initial 
call did create some confusion, I do think the second call was clearer  and made it clear to 
Mrs M that shed only be able to benefit from a 0% balance transfer offer if she applied for 
and was granted a new credit card. Its worth adding Mrs M wasnt guaranteed to get the 
new 0% credit card, as itd be subject to Tescos lending criteria. And Mrs M ultimately 
applied for a balance transfer from a credit card with another lender to her existing card with 
Tesco. I cant reasonably say this was Tescos fault, when shed talked through what she 
needed to do on the phone  and then applied herself online.
I also understand Mrs Ms concerns that this doesnt really help her if shes not able to find 
another 0% credit card. Shes also concerned that the interest refunds were only applied to 
the credit card rather than her current account, and she wasnt refunded the balance transfer 
fee. But for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think Tesco are responsible for what 
happened  so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman