DRN-1783516
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) completed an inadequate repair to a 
pipe which led to a further leak and damage to her home.
What happened
Miss J had home emergency insurance with IPA. While remedial work was underway at her 
home for a separate issue, she reported a leak to IPA. Using the access hole in the floor 
created for the ongoing remedial work, it completed an emergency repair to the joint in the 
pipe supplying the hand basin.
A few months later, after all the remedial work was done, Miss J noticed another leak. Her 
own plumber, after spending some time looking for the source of the leak, traced it to the 
same joint as the previous leak and completed a repair. The plumber told Miss J that the 
joint had leaked again because the previous repair was only a temporary one.
Miss J complained to IPA because it hadnt told her the repair was temporary and her 
plumber had to remove parts of her newly repaired ceiling, walls and floorboards to trace the 
leak. She thought that wouldnt have been necessary if IPA had told her she needed a 
permanent repair while the floorboards were still lifted. Miss J would like IPA to pay for the 
repair.
IPA didnt accept responsibility for the cost of the second repair. It said the first repair was 
only temporary and, as the policy didnt cover trace and access, it wouldnt pay for the 
damage caused by her plumber when tracing the leak. IPA also said that the leak was 
caused because the newly replaced floorboards were pushing down on the joint.
Our investigator upheld Miss Js complaint. She thought that IPA shouldve been aware that 
the floorboards would be replaced and that it shouldve made sure the joint would fit properly 
in the space. Our investigator also said there was no evidence that IPA had told Miss J that 
the repair was only temporary. For these reasons, she thought IPA should cover the full cost 
of the repair work completed by Miss Js own contractor and pay simple interest from the 
date she paid the invoice to the date of settlement.
IPA didnt agree. It remained of the view that the contractor who replaced the floorboards 
was responsible for causing the joint to leak. IPA also said that as the policy didnt cover 
trace and access or reinstatement it shouldnt need to pay for those costs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that there was a further leak from the same pipe as that already repaired 
by IPA. Nor is there any dispute that the repair wasnt an effective, permanent repair. So the 
issues Ive considered here are:
whether IPA told Miss J it was a temporary repair;
whether IPA is responsible for the subsequent leak, and 
whether it should pay for the cost of repair of the second leak.
Temporary repair
IPA explains that because Miss J reported the first leak late at night, and its engineer had 
limited access to tools and parts, the repair was only temporary. I accept this explanation. 
But there is no evidence that IPA told Miss J that a permanent repair was needed. I think 
that, more likely than not, she didnt know more work was needed. Thats because she 
already had contractors on site and access to the pipe was still available, so it wouldve been 
a straightforward job to complete the permanent repair with minimal disruption. I think that if 
shed known it was a temporary repair, its unlikely Miss J wouldve gone to the trouble of 
having the floor replaced knowing that it would need to be lifted again to access the pipe.
So, Im satisfied that Miss J didnt know the repair was temporary.
Responsibility for second leak
There is some question about whether replacing the floorboards over the repaired pipe 
pressed on the joint and caused the leak. IPA thinks thats what happened, but Miss J thinks 
it was caused by the inadequate repair. Ive thought carefully about this and I dont think it 
matters. Thats because whether or not the floorboards pressed on the pipe, theres no 
doubt that the repair was never intended to be permanent. So, the floorboards shouldnt 
really have been replaced over the pipe at all. If I assume that IPA is correct and that the 
pressure of the floorboards caused the leak, I still think it was responsible. And thats 
because, as Ive already said above, its unlikely Miss J wouldve replaced the floorboards 
over a temporary repair if she had known thats what it was. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect the contractor who replaced the floorboards to have 
had greater expertise in plumbing issues than the plumber who completed the temporary 
repair. So I dont agree with IPA that the contractor is responsible for the leak. The key point 
is that if IPA had told Miss J the repair was temporary, its unlikely she wouldve replaced the 
floorboards until the pipe was permanently repaired and positioned so that the floorboards 
wouldnt cause pressure on it.
Cost of repair
I can understand why IPA doesnt think it should pay for repairs needed after damage 
caused by trace and access, or for reinstatement. The policy doesnt provide cover for that 
work. It also thinks the amount of work carried out wasnt necessary. Briefly, Miss Js 
plumber looked for the second leak, believing it originated from somewhere other than the 
pipe IPA repaired. In tracing the leak, the plumber cut a hole in the wall behind the shower, 
the ceiling and floorboards. IPA says its own plumber found the source of the leak in under 
half an hour. I dont doubt that. However, remedial work was already underway at Miss Js 
home so its unlikely that tracing the leak wouldve been difficult  we have already 
established that it was repaired through an existing hole in the floor. So I dont think its fair 
to make a comparison.
When Miss Js plumber attended, she says it wasnt clear where the leak was coming from. 
And she didnt think it would be coming from a pipe that she believed IPA had already 
repaired. I think thats a fair assumption. While there was damage which IPA didnt think was 
necessary in tracing the leak, thats its opinion with the benefit of knowing now where the 
leak was coming from and how it couldve been accessed more easily. There was some 
doubt about how the walls above the leak wouldve been damaged to the extent that they needed plastering. Ive seen the photos of the damage and I can see that the walls above 
the leak were deliberately cut into as part of the trace and access  they werent damaged 
by rising water. That seems reasonable.
So the question for me is whether IPA should pay for repairing the trace and access damage 
when its not covered by the policy. I think it should. The reason for my decision is this - if 
IPA had fixed the leak permanently or told Miss J that it was only a temporary measure, its 
unlikely the second leak wouldve happened. In which case Miss J wouldnt have incurred 
any costs for tracing a second leak or repairing damage caused in doing so.
In summary, I think its reasonable for IPA to reimburse Miss J for the cost of repairing the 
damage caused by the trace and access for the second leak. As she has already paid for the 
work to be done, I also think simple interest of 8% on the invoice from when Miss J made 
payment to reimbursement is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should:
reimburse Miss J for her contractors costs upon production of proof of payment, and 
pay Miss J interest at the annual rate of 8% simple on the reinstatement invoice from 
the date of payment until settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman