DRN-3684158
The complaint
Mr E complains that Scottish Equitable plc trading as Aegon delayed making a partial lump 
sum payment to him. He also complains that he was given misleading information.
What happened
Mr E had an individual Personal Pension policy with Aegon. He used Aegons online service 
to request a partial lump sum payment of £44,000 on 17 January 2022. He says he had to 
use the online service because hed been unable to get through to Aegon on the phone. 
Aegon sent him a letter dated 20 January 2022. The letter wasnt delivered until 1 February 
and Mr E also received a copy of the letter, by email on the same date. Mr E says he was 
abroad at the time and this meant he didnt have his log on details and couldnt access the 
email. He also says that when he was able to open the correspondence and the email, 
Aegon had failed to provide him with the necessary form required to progress his request.
He contacted Aegon on 21 February 2022 and it started to process his request at that time. 
The funds werent credited to his account until 3 March 2022. By that stage Mr E says the 
value of his pension had decreased because of market performance. He says that due to 
Aegons delays he wasnt able to protect the £44,000 hed requested from this decrease in 
market values, which was his intention. He says that during the delay the value of his 
pension fell by £7,000. The amount of the partial withdrawal he requested equated to 19% of 
his pension pot  so, he says his loss is £1,330. He complained to Aegon.
Aegon investigated his complaint. It said it was required to send him a quotation before it 
could proceed with the partial withdrawal. It said it sent that on 20 January 2022 and it 
couldnt be responsible if he hadnt received it. Mr E had confirmed on 21 February that he 
wanted to proceed and, in line with Aegons procedures, the claim date was set at 23 
February 2022. Payment had been made by telegraphic transfer on 3 March 2022. Aegon 
didnt accept any responsibility for the delay or for the loss Mr E claimed he had sustained.
Mr E didnt agree. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. 
She asked Aegon for further information about the letter it said it had sent on 20 January. 
Aegon checked its records again. It said that it now accepted that the letter hadnt been sent 
until 1 February 2022. But, it said the reason for this was because the Regulator required it 
to attach a quotation to the letter and it had taken further time for that to be obtained. Aegon 
said it had also sent the correspondence by email on 1 February. 
Our investigator thought this was a reasonable explanation for the delay. She also noted that 
Mr E hadnt contacted Aegon after he received the email to ask for assistance to open that 
email in circumstances where he didnt have his log on details. After Mr E had confirmed that 
he wanted to proceed Aegon had processed his claim within its own service standards. Our 
investigator also noted that although Mr E had complained about there being no form 
included with the correspondence hed received on 1 February, it was the case that he 
hadnt needed to complete a form to progress his request. She didnt think Aegon needed to 
do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr E didnt agree. He said, in summary:
Aegon had now admitted to our service that it hadnt sent the letter dated 20 January 
2022 until 1 February 2022. He said Aegon had provided him with misleading 
information and had not properly investigated his complaint;
Aegons practice of issuing backdated letters was unacceptable; and
He didnt accept the explanation Aegon had given for backdating the letter. He 
pointed to the fact that the quotation attached to the letter was dated 19 January 
2022.
Mr E said that if Aegon had investigated his complaint properly its final response letter might 
have left him feeling disgruntled but he would have accepted he couldnt take the matter 
further. But, instead its final response letter had included misleading information and hed 
wasted many hours of his time as a result.
Because Mr E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E requested a partial lump sum withdrawal from his pension. He submitted his request 
online on 17 January 2022. He was sent an immediate automated response which stated 
that Aegon aimed to complete your request within 12 working days. Mr E says it took much 
longer for Aegon to complete his request. He didnt receive the partial lump sum payment 
until 3 March 2022.
Ive considered the timeline of events. After the request was submitted on 17 January Aegon 
prepared a letter addressed to Mr E dated 20 January 2022. The letter enclosed a quotation. 
It is not now in dispute that this letter wasnt issued by Aegon until 1 February 2022 (11 
working days after the date of the online request). Ill comment on this further below.
Aegon says its required to send a quotation when a customer requests a part lump sum 
payment and it takes additional time to prepare the quotation. It says that was the reason 
why its letter (and email) to Mr E wasnt issued until 1 February.
Mr E acknowledges that he received the email. But he says he was abroad at the time and 
couldnt access the email because he didnt have his log in details. Hes also said that he 
was concerned about accessing his email account when he was abroad. Because of this, it 
was 21 February 2022 before Mr E contacted Aegon to confirm that he wanted to proceed. 
The instruction was actioned on 23 February and the payment made by telegraphic transfer 
on 3 March.
Having thought about the timeline of events, I can see that the process was longer than 
might otherwise have been expected because of two main issues.
First there was a delay getting the quotation issued and sent to Mr E. Aegon had told Mr E 
on 17 January that it aimed to complete his request within 12 working days. It took it 11 
working days to get the quotation to him. So, even if he had acted immediately it wouldve 
been 13 working days before it could have actioned his instruction  which is one day longer 
than what it says it aims to do.
Aegon says that the reason for this delay was because it had to produce a quotation. Mr E 
hadnt received a quotation within the previous three month period. And it is a regulatory requirement that he should be given such information as is necessary to enable him to make 
an informed decision  including, for example, information about how the fund is invested 
and the impact of the proposed withdrawal on the future sustainability of income from the 
pension. So, I dont think Aegon did anything wrong when it decided to issue the quotation 
with the letter dated 20 January. 
Aegon has explained that it takes additional time to obtain this quotation. Ive looked at 
Mr Es previous experience in January 2021 when he had requested a partial lump sum. On 
that occasion it appears to have taken around 9 working days to issue the quotation to Mr E 
 which was two working days less than it took in January 2022. 
But having looked at the requirement to provide the quotation, Im not persuaded that Aegon 
took an excessively long period of time. Its automated email on 17 January had referred to 
its aim being a period of 12 working days  albeit that indicated it was to complete the 
request. And if Mr E was concerned that it was taking too long, theres no evidence that he 
contacted Aegon to prompt it to act more quickly  during the period between 17 January 
and 21 February.
Secondly, there was a delay after the email of 1 February was issued. Mr E didnt respond to 
that email until 21 February. Hes provided explanations as to why that was the case. But, 
having thought about those explanations, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to say that 
Aegon should be liable because Mr E was reluctant to open the email or because he didnt 
have the necessary log on information to access his email. 
Mr E points out that no instruction form was enclosed with the letter. Having read the letter, I 
can see that it wasnt necessary to complete a form. In order to proceed, Mr E only needed 
to contact Aegon. And that was how the matter was ultimately progressed. So, I dont think 
that explains why he didnt contact Aegon until 21 February.
After Mr E contacted Aegon on 21 February the request was processed in line with Aegons 
usual service standards. In order to expedite matters, Aegon also agreed to make the 
payment by telegraphic transfer. I think that was fair and reasonable.
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded on balance that Aegon unduly 
delayed issuing the quotation to Mr E and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say 
that Aegon should be responsible for any delay after 1 February. So, I dont think Aegon 
should be responsible for any fall in the value of Mr Es pension fund during the period after 
17 January 2022. It is the case that the value of his pension fund was subject to usual 
market risk which meant it could fall as well as rise.
In his correspondence with our service Mr E has commented on the fact that Aegon provided 
incorrect information to him after he made his complaint. It had told him in its final response 
letter and in subsequent conversations that the letter dated 20 January 2022 had been 
issued on that date. That information was incorrect and as a result he says hes wasted 
many hours progressing his complaint.
Our service cannot deal with every aspect of a complaint thats referred to us. We are 
subject to the DISP Rules found in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. These 
provide that we can consider complaints about how a business has carried on its regulated 
activities. How a business handles complaints is not a regulated activity. So, I cannot 
consider that part of Mr Es complaint which is about how Aegon handled his complaint. But I 
can consider the point hes made about the fact that, when he asked Aegon for a partial 
lump payment it sent him a letter dated 20 January 2022, but that letter wasnt issued until 1 
February.As set out above Aegon has explained that the reason for this was because a quotation, 
which takes extra time to prepare, had to be attached to the letter. The letter is prepared and 
dated at the start of the process. I asked Aegon to comment on the fact that the quotation 
appeared to be dated 19 January 2022. It responded by describing the process used to 
obtain and prepare a quotation. It deals with requests for quotations in order of receipt and 
priority and it can take up to ten working days to complete the process because projections 
have to be obtained. The quotation is then attached to the letter.
Having considered what Aegon has said, I can understand why there was a delay between 
preparation and despatch of the letter. It is unfortunate that Aegon didnt explain to Mr E at 
the outset that the letter had been dated 20 January 2022 but not despatched until 1 
February 2022. And I can understand why Mr E is unhappy about the information he was 
given here.
Aegon acknowledges that it needs to look again at its processes so that, in this type of case, 
its letters bear the date they are actually despatched to customers. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. However, even if the letter here had been correctly dated, that wouldnt have 
changed the outcome. Having considered everything, I dont require Aegon to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Scottish Equitable plc 
trading as Aegon.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman