DRN-2728371
The complaint
 L, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed its 
account. It asks that Barclays provides a proper explanation for its actions and pays 
compensation. 
L is represented by its director Mr H.
What happened
 In September 2019 Barclays blocked Ls account. 
Mr H discovered that Ls account was blocked when he tried to use his bank card to make a 
payment which was declined. Mr H contacted Barclays to find out what was happening with 
Ls account. Barclays told Mr H that it had placed Ls account under review. And asked him 
to provide information about the funds in Ls account. Whilst it completed its review Mr L was 
unable to access the money in Ls account. 
Barclays decided to close Ls account immediately and wrote to Mr H on 6 October 2019 to 
let him know hed need to make alternative banking arrangements. At the time Ls account 
balance was just over £117,000. Barclays asked Mr H to provide proof of entitlement to the 
funds in Ls account. Barclays completed its review on 15 November 2019 and said Mr H 
could access the closing balance of the account if he went into a branch with some 
identification. 
Mr H happened to be in a branch on 15 November 2019 when he found out he was able to 
access Ls funds. However, when he tried to access the money in Ls account Barclays told 
him that he couldnt take the money out of the account. And hed have to go back to the 
branch on the following day. Mr H went back into branch on 16 November 2019 as advised 
but was again told he wasnt able to access the money and to come back the following day. 
Mr H then made another two trips on 17 and 18 November 2019, each time being told to 
come back the following day and that no notes had been placed on file to authorise the 
release of the funds. 
On 20 November 2019, a member of staff noticed Mr H was again in the branch and that he 
had been in branch for several days running trying to sort things out. So, they contacted 
Barclays head office to arrange the release of Ls closing balance. Barclays issued Mr H with 
a cheque for the balance of Ls account on 20 November 2019. 
Mr H asked us to investigate Ls complaint. He said the block and closure of Ls account had 
caused his business a great deal of inconvenience. He explained that he was unable to do 
any business as customers couldnt pay deposits into Ls blocked account. And he couldnt 
pay for supplies. Mr H says the review caused him financial difficulties and stress as he was 
unable to pay Ls tax bill. So, he wants Barclays to pay compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed Ls complaint. He thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Ls account. He said theyd acted in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations. But he thought Barclays had caused Mr H, as director of L, 
inconvenience when it told Mr H, he would be able to access Ls funds, when this hadnt 
been arranged properly. So, Mr H had to make unnecessary repeated trips to a bank branch. 
He said Barclays should pay Mr H £150 compensation. Barclays agreed. Mr H didnt. He 
wants Barclays to provide an explanation why it blocked Ls account. And says the £150 
doesnt adequately reflect the amount of inconvenience L suffered. 
So, the matter had been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Its clear from what Mr H has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about Ls 
complaint. Ive read and considered all of Mr Hs submissions regarding his complaint, but Ill 
concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think it is the right outcome. 
I appreciate that Mr H is upset that Barclays blocked and closed Ls account. I can also 
understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it 
difficult for him to manage Ls finances including taking deposits and paying for supplies. But 
for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. 
And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr H feels Barclays should have told him that Ls account was being reviewed 
and why its accounts were blocked  instead of Mr H discovering Ls account was blocked 
when his bank card was declined. And I want to make it clear that I understand why what 
happened concerned Mr H. And Ive no doubt it wouldve come as quite a shock to Mr H. But 
Barclays has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing 
account services to customers, including accounts held by businesses. And to fulfil these 
obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts  by not doing so they 
could risk serious sanctions and penalties.
Barclays has said that Ls account was blocked to meet these requirements. Having looked 
at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays was within its rights to review Ls account and 
that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. So, I cant say the bank did 
anything wrong. The bank also wasnt obliged to tell Mr H why it was carrying out a review, 
and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Looking at the terms of the account they permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. So, 
although I understand not having access to Ls accounts would have caused inconvenience 
to L, this is not something for which Im asking Barclays to pay compensation.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ls account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Ls account immediately. Having looked at all the information I think that 
was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. did Barclays act reasonably when releasing Ls funds?
Barclays said Mr H would be able to have the funds released to him on 15 November 2019 if 
he went into a branch with some identification. But when Mr H spoke to Barclays on the day, 
he was told this wasnt possible as Ls account hadnt been updated by the relevant team to 
approve the release of the money. So, he was told to come back the following day. Mr H did 
as the bank instructed, and went back into branch on 16 November 2019, expecting to be 
able to access the money. However, Barclays still hadnt updated their notes so still couldnt 
release the funds. And told Mr H to come back on 17 November 2019, which he did. But 
again, Barclays hadnt updated things and told him to come back the following day. Ive no 
doubt this created confusion and unnecessary inconvenience for Mr H having to make 
several trips to the bank, which took him away from his role as director of L and running his 
business.
 
L is a limited company  so it cant feel upset. I cant generally award compensation to third 
parties, such as directors. So, while Ls representative, Mr H says he has suffered stress and 
upset, I cant award compensation for this.  I also havent seen any evidence that L has 
suffered financial loss.
But from looking at what happened when Mr H tried to gain access to Ls funds, Im satisfied 
that L did suffer unnecessary inconvenience  I say this because Mr H had to make 
repeated trips into branch which took him away from Ls business activities - and the 
company can be compensated for that. On balance, I think £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by Barclayss poor communication is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank PLC to pay £150 
compensation to L for the inconvenience caused by Barclays poor service.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman