DRN-3424110
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the suitability of the advice she says she was given by Munro-
Greenhalgh (Life and pensions) referred to as Munro-Greenhalgh to transfer her 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits to a personal pension plan (PPP) in 1998. 
Although Munro-Greenhalgh is no longer authorised, in the interest of consistency, Ill only 
refer to it in this decision instead of the firm(s) which subsequently took over its operations. 
What happened
Mrs R had been a member of an OPS from September 1974 to May 1996. In 1998 she met 
with Munro-Greenhalgh to discuss her retirement options and, following the meeting, 
transferred the OPS benefits to a PPP. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was 
£102,081 and, according to the PPP provider, the transfer completed on 11 May 1998.
Mrs Rs deferred annual pension from the OPS in April 1998 was £5,039.78.
Unfortunately, Mrs Rs husband passed away in 2000 and over the following two years she 
asked for and received some ad-hoc information about her PPP from Munro-Greenhalgh. In 
2003 she transferred the benefits from her PPP into a new drawdown plan. She withdrew tax 
free cash of £13,390 and took the maximum permissible annual income of £5,965.64. 
£118,867 remained invested in the funds. 
In 2018 Mrs Rs financial adviser decided to retire and passed her details to a colleague. The 
new adviser reviewed Mrs Rs situation and suggested that the advice shed received in 
1998 might not have been suitable, so Mrs R complained to Munro-Greenhalgh. She said 
she hadnt been made aware of the benefits she would lose by transferring her OPS benefits 
and wouldnt have gone ahead if shed known. She said she was in a worse financial 
position now than she would have been if shed retained her OPS benefits and wanted 
compensation for the loss shed suffered.
But Munro-Greenhalgh said it wouldnt consider the merits of Mrs Rs complaint as shed
brought it too late. It said more than six years had passed since the transfer and more than
three years since Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware of a cause for complaint. It
referred to a number of documents Mrs R was sent between 2000 and 2004 which Munro-
Greenhalgh said proved she was aware of issues with her original pension transfer.
Mrs R didnt accept that outcome, so she brought her complaint to us through a 
representative. One of our investigators thought we could consider the complaint, but 
Munro-Greenhalgh disagreed, and so I issued a decision which said we could consider the 
merits of the complaint. 
I said that if the documents Mrs R had received between 2000 and 2004 made it clear that 
shed be worse off following the transfer then I would have expected her to have raised a 
complaint. But in my view the documents didnt make that clear to Mrs R. I didnt think any of 
the documents individually ought to have reasonably made her aware of a cause to complain 
or that they gave her enough constructive knowledge. 
I didnt think Mrs R had been aware of the loss of guarantees from her OPS as I thought 
shed only raised that issue with the benefit of hindsight and following professional advice. I 
thought if shed been aware of that loss at the time of the transfer she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the original recommendation.  
Munro-Greenhalgh didnt accept  and still doesnt accept - my decision that we could 
consider the suitability of the transfer advice. It made some additional points around the 
guarantees that Mrs R says shes now aware that she lost upon transferring. It said that:
I accepted that Mrs R would receive an annual income of £5,039.78 from her OPS 
based on her deferred benefit statement. But the advice she took in 2003 meant that, 
if she wanted a guaranteed income at that time through an annuity, then she would 
have received a fixed income of £3,363.787. And the income she did receive wasnt 
guaranteed and did fall in subsequent years  which Id said was simply due to the 
changes in the income allowed under the Government Actuarys Department (GAD) 
reviews. Munro-Greenhalgh thought that Mrs R should have been aware that this 
was a reduction in her annual income (from the OPS statement) and therefore the 
original guarantees no longer existed  so she ought reasonably to have been aware 
of a cause to complain about the loss of the guarantees in 2003 at the latest.
It didnt agree with my assertion that we would generally say that if someone had 
been aware of a problem at the time then they wouldnt have accepted the advice 
and gone ahead in the first place. It thought it was possible for Mrs R to have 
understood the risks of giving up any guarantees and taken those risks, only to 
repent when they later became clear.
I hadnt taken into account the cumulative knowledge that Mrs R had obtained 
which should have made it clear that she had cause to complain as a result of the 
different correspondence she received between 2000 and 2004  but particularly in 
2003 when it was clear that her previous guaranteed income would be replaced by a 
riskier, investment based solution which didnt guarantee a fixed income level. 
But Munro-Greenhalgh also provided submissions in respect of the merits of Mrs Rs 
complaint which the investigator then considered. The investigator said that the complaint 
should be upheld, making the following points in support of her view: 
The available evidence showed that Mrs R met with Munro-Greenhalgh in early 1998 
and soon after she took out a PPP and transferred her OPS benefits to the same 
provider. It seemed unlikely that Mrs R would have taken that course of action herself 
and would most likely, based on her limited financial experience, have needed advice 
to appreciate the implications of transferring. 
It was more likely than not that the meetings between Munro-Greenhalgh and Mrs R 
 along with the follow up letters it sent her - would have led to her believing it was in 
her best interests to transfer.
The investigator thought a recommendation to transfer Mrs Rs entire pension 
provision to a plan which exposed her previously guaranteed benefits to investment 
risks was unsuitable.
There was no evidence to show that Mrs R did wish to retire early and nothing to 
suggest that enquiries about early retirement had been made to her OPS. 
It was unfair to use the correspondence issued to Mrs R after her husband had died, 
when her plans and objectives would have changed, as reasons for suggesting she 
always wanted to retire early.
It wasnt clear how Mrs Rs attitude to risk (ATR) had been assessed or even if she 
was made aware of the risks involved.
Munro-Greenhalgh should carry out a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance to determine if a loss had been suffered as a result of the 
transfer.Munro-Greenhalgh didnt agree. It didnt think the investigator had considered the 
information it had sent us and thought she had supported Mrs Rs complaint without any 
material evidence. It asked the investigator to confirm she had approached the relevant third 
parties it had asked her to and requested the information shed received or the responses 
shed had as a result.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, and thought shed provided the 
responses shed had from two separate third parties  which was that they didnt hold any 
information relating to the transfer. But she explained that Munro-Greenhalgh itself could 
approach any other relevant parties it wanted information from. 
So the complaint was been passed to me to review. But in asking for the complaint to be 
referred, Munro-Greenhalgh made the following points for further consideration:
There was no evidence of a suitability report or any other recommendation to transfer 
being made to Mrs R. It thought the generic pensions options report it provided to 
Mrs R was (incorrectly) used as evidence of a recommendation to transfer, whereas 
Mrs R already held a PPP with that provider and the report simply confirmed that if 
she ever wished to transfer, she could use that PPP.
Mrs Rs verbal evidence contradicts that of the adviser who denied providing any 
advice to transfer. It also thought she had attributed words and phrases to the 
adviser that he would never use. It thought wed put disproportionate weight on 
Mrs Rs recollections. 
It also disagreed with our statement that there was no evidence that Mrs R had 
plans to take her benefits early. It said she had made it clear previously that she did 
intend to retire early and had met the adviser with that idea in mind. In fact, Munro-
Greenhalgh said that Mrs R set up her PPP and made single and regular 
contributions to facilitate early retirement  which was ultimately what did happen.  
My provisional decision
I made the following summarised points in support of my findings, although this decision 
should be read in conjunction with the full text  and findings - of that provisional decision, 
which form part of this final decision:
I gave further reasoning and support to my previous decision that this was a 
complaint we could consider. I saw no reason to change my view on this matter that I 
didnt think Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware of a cause to complain more 
than three years before she did.
Looking at the merits of the complaint  which was the suitability of the advice, there 
was little evidence from the time to confirm what had happened. So I made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities.
I accepted there was no available documentation to show Munro-Greenhalgh had 
recommended the transfer  only to have started a PPP, in 1998. 
But a report which was issued after the meeting Mrs R had with Munro-Greenhalgh in 
March 1998, made reference to deferred OPS rights.
So I thought it was reasonable to conclude that the OPS benefits had been 
discussed in the same meeting where the recommendation for the PPP had been 
given. It was Munro-Greenhalgh that had raised the issue of the deferred OPS 
benefits and said it would appraise them. 
I didnt think Mrs R was seeking to transfer the benefits and I found it unlikely that 
she would have gone ahead with the transfer after the meeting without some indication from Munro-Greenhalgh that it was in her best interests. I said that 
because Mrs R appeared to seek help from Munro-Greenhalgh about a number of 
matters following her husbands death, she was unlikely to transfer pension benefits 
without asking for its advice on that matter as well.
I had also considered a letter dated 20 April 1998 from Munro-Greenhalgh which set 
out Mrs Rs options with regards to the deferred benefits. And three weeks after the 
letter Munro-Greenhalgh wrote to Mrs R to confirm it had received a cheque from the 
OPS and would be submitting it to the PPP provider along with an application form. I 
didnt think Munro-Greenhalgh would have been so involved with the administration 
of transferring the benefits unless it had given advice on the matter. 
Munro-Greenhalgh had suggested the PPP was set up to facilitate contributions and 
also as a potential vehicle for the OPS benefits if they were ever transferred.  But 
considering the time it would usually take to complete an OPS transfer this would 
suggest advice to transfer was likely to have been given at the same time as advice 
to set up the PPP.
I thought it was likely that, on balance Munro-Greenhalgh had given a 
recommendation to transfer the OPS benefits. And there was no available evidence 
to support any claim that Mrs R was treated as an execution only investor either.
Mrs Rs circumstances in 1998 didnt support a claim that any advice to transfer 
would have been suitable. I wasnt persuaded that Mrs R needed to transfer to retire 
early or indeed that she aspired to retire early. 
I thought that if Mrs R had been made aware of the key differences between the 
schemes then I didnt think she would have agreed to transfer. And I thought Munro-
Greenhalghs involvement in the matter was most likely the reason that Mrs R did 
agree to transfer  which I didnt think was in her best interests.
Munro-Greenhalgh should complete a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
updated pension review guidance. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Munro-Greenhalgh didnt accept my provisional decision. It made the following points in 
response:
My provisional decision was irrational, inconsistent and unbalanced.
It remained of the view that the complaint should be time barred, as an objective 
review of the facts ought to lead to us to conclude that the matter was out of our 
jurisdiction.
As I agreed that there was no evidence that Munro-Greenhalgh had provided any 
advice, it didnt accept my conclusion that Mrs R had been given advice which was 
provided by Munro-Greenhalgh.
It said Id used an imbalanced narrative to favour Mrs R, because, while I said there 
was no available documentation relating to a recommendation, Id gone on to 
conclude that Munro-Greenhalgh had provided advice. It had also been 
demonstrated that the provider of the PPP had no evidence to show that Munro-
Greenhalgh had either provided advice or submitted the application. 
It though I had placed disproportionate weight on Mrs Rs recollection of her 
dealings with Munro-Greenhalgh and ignored the advisers testimony. 
It said Mrs R had made it very clear that she wished to retire early and had met the 
adviser  with her late husband, to discuss exactly that matter. It was then that Mrs R 
agreed to set up a PPP to try to ensure that objective could be achieved. But I hadnt 
taken that evidence from the adviser into consideration and had simply chosen to 
accept Mrs Rs version of events which suggested she had no plans to retire early.It also thought the language and phraseology Mrs R attributed to the adviser wasnt 
consistent with his usual style. It thought this cast doubt on the accuracy of Mrs Rs 
recollection of events. 
If I still believed that the complaint was one we could consider  and should be 
upheld  it said its involvement in the complaint would cease from that point. It said 
this was because Munro-Greenhalgh was sold to another business in 2002 and it 
was agreed the new business would take over the responsibility for paying redress 
for any future upheld complaints. It explained that business itself had subsequently 
been sold and several takeovers had occurred since  so it wasnt sure where the 
responsibility now lay. But it said it wasnt responsible for meeting this claim. 
I asked Munro-Greenhalgh why it had only provided this information at this point and had 
been content to deal with the merits of the complaint to date. 
It went on to further explain that following the sale in 2002 it was agreed that the previous 
business partners of Munro-Greenhalgh would still investigate any complaints. But 
subsequent mergers and acquisitions meant that its not now possible to determine who 
retains responsibility for any liabilities  although from 2010, the firm which took over part of 
the previous company didnt take on its future liabilities. 
In any case Munro-Greenhalgh said it continued to deal with the complaint because of the 
longstanding agreement from 2002 and thought that, as I hadnt ruled the complaint out of 
jurisdiction, it ought to look into its merits of the complaint for both Munro-Greenhalgh and 
Mrs Rs benefit. But it felt that if I continued to progress the complaint I ought to be aware 
that in 2012 it had engaged with the Financial Services Compensation scheme (FSCS) who 
had agreed that all liabilities relating to Munro-Greenhalgh were eligible for compensation 
through that scheme. 
We then asked Mrs R to go back to the FSCS to see whether the complaint was better 
suited to be dealt with by that service.  But the FSCS confirmed that it had previously looked 
into this matter and believed the original partners of Munro-Greenhalgh were in a position to 
meet any liabilities arising  so it directed Mrs R to bring her complaint back to us.
Subsequently Ive looked into the position that Munro-Greenhalgh set out from 2002, but Ive 
been unable to determine that an arrangement is in place between the partners of Munro-
Greenhalgh and FSCS. So, taking everything into consideration Ive now concluded that the 
decision on the outcome of Mrs Rs complaint sits best with this service.
Mrs R had nothing further to say regarding my provisional decision, but Munro-Greenhalgh 
continues to believe that any decision to uphold the complaint would be entirely flawed and 
require the service to, act outside of its remit and in contravention of the FCAs DISP rules 
by which it is bound.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Munro-Greenhalghs further submissions and having 
satisfied myself that the complaint is best dealt with by this service, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.
I can understand Munro-Greenhalghs concerns here, but I think it falls on this service to 
provide a decision  so Ill explain my reasoning. Can we consider the complaint?
As I explained in my previous decisions, I dont think Mrs Rs complaint was brought outside 
the time limits allowed. In my provisional decision I gave a fuller explanation of the reasons 
for reaching that conclusion  and I note Munro-Greenhalgh made no further points about 
the matter following my provisional decision. So Ill briefly summarise those reasons:
The letters Mrs R received about her pension from 2000 to 2004 didnt, in my view, 
give her individual or cumulative knowledge that ought reasonably to have given her 
cause to complain.
Although Munro-Greenhalgh said Mrs R ought to have had cause to complain when 
she realised she no longer had guarantees attached to her income, I dont think this 
was the reason for her complaint. I think that, whether she was aware that the loss of 
guarantees rendered the advice unsuitable, was a matter to consider during the 
merits of the case. I think that if Mrs R was concerned about losing the guarantees at 
the time of receiving advice  she wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer.  
Ive also considered whether Mrs R ought to have considered the nature of the 
income shed be receiving in 2003, and whether there was a problem with the 
(flexible) drawdown income compared with the guaranteed income of the OPS. But, 
looking at the pension options Munro- Greenhalgh set out in its letter of April 1998, it 
explained the actuarial reduction that might apply from the OPS if Mrs R took early 
retirement. The deduction, which I think Mrs R would have been able to calculate, 
showed a 30% deduction if retirement was at age 55. This wouldnt have compared 
favourably with the guaranteed income that was available to Mrs R when she was 
shown what she would receive from a guaranteed annuity in 2003. So I dont think 
this would have necessarily given her cause to complain about the earlier advice to 
transfer.
The question of whether Munro-Greenhalgh gave Mrs R advice
Munro-Greenhalgh has said that, while I accepted there was no evidence to directly link it to 
any recommendation or advice for Mrs R to transfer her OPS benefits, I then simply 
concluded that it had given advice in the face of the facts that Id already established. 
Munro-Greenhalgh thinks Ive dismissed the evidence of its adviser that Mrs R simply 
wanted to set up a PPP to help her retire early, in favour of fully accepting Mrs Rs 
recollections of what happened. 
In my provisional decision I did say that there was very little evidence from the point of sale 
which linked Munro-Greenhalgh to any advice that Mrs R ought to transfer her OPS benefits. 
The only document Id seen was a pensions options report which noted the 
recommendation to start the PPP. But a lack of available point of sale information doesnt 
automatically mean Munro-Greenhalgh didnt give any advice, and, as Id said previously, 
the lack of evidence meant that I had to carefully consider the other documents available to 
me in order to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. 
And there were good reasons for concluding that other information suggested that, without 
Munro-Greenhalghs involvement, Mrs R wouldnt have transferred her OPS benefits.
Munro-Greenhalgh did have a meeting with Mrs R in March 1998, and the outcome of the 
meeting was set out in a subsequent report which confirmed that a new PPP had been set 
up with contributions of £100 per month. But the report also referred to deferred pension 
rights within the xxx pension scheme which we intend to appraise.  
So, I think its reasonable to assume that Munro-Greenhalgh would have conducted some 
kind of analysis of the OPS in order to appraise the benefits. And I think the only reason to analyse the benefits, as they were already deferred, would have been to compare whether 
they were better off being left where they were or if there was any merit to transferring them 
elsewhere. And this was supported by the letter that Munro-Greenhalgh sent Mrs R on 
20 April 1998.  
That letter set out Mrs Rs three options with regards to the OPS, which were to leave the 
benefits or transfer them to either a section 32 plan or a PPP. And the adviser also 
confirmed that, I have enclosed the relevant illustrations and key feature documents for your 
consideration. I dont think Mrs R had previously demonstrated that she was comfortable 
taking such actions as transferring her own pension without the assistance of her adviser. 
After all, following her husbands death, Mrs R made numerous requests to Munro-
Greenhalgh for help and guidance  so I think its more likely than not she would have done 
so again with regards to something so important and involved as transferring the equivalent 
of over £100,000.
Following the issuing of the letter of 20 April 1998, Munro-Greenhalgh wrote to Mrs R again 
to confirm receipt of a cheque from the OPS. It said it would submit an application for the 
transfer on her behalf to the new PPP provider. I dont think its likely that Munro-Greenhalgh 
would have involved itself in the process to this extent if it hadnt given some form of 
recommendation to transfer the OPS benefits. Munro-Greenhalgh says theres no evidence 
to support the claim that it gave advice and was responsible for the transfer. But the PPP 
provider has confirmed that it paid commission to Munro-Greenhalgh following receipt of the 
transfer application in 1998  so I think Munro-Greenhalgh would only have been able to 
receive commission if it had been instrumental in recommending and then administering the 
transfer.
Looking at the timeline involved here, I can see that following the initial meeting between 
Mrs R and Munro-Greenhalgh in 1998, Munro-Greenhalgh issued a suitability report in which 
it raised the subject of her deferred OPS benefits and then issued a pensions option report 
which outlined her options regarding the OPS  which included transferring to a PPP. A few 
weeks later, but consistent with the time I would have expected for the OPS trustees to 
discharge Mrs Rs benefits, Munro-Greenhalgh confirmed receipt of a cheque for those 
benefits, submitted a transfer application, and received payment  in the form of commission 
from the provider  for its involvement in the process. 
So, on balance, Ive concluded that Mrs R wouldnt have transferred the OPS benefits 
herself, and its only with Munro-Greenhalghs involvement that the transfer went ahead. I 
think its more likely than not that Munro-Greenhalgh gave a recommendation to transfer 
which Mrs R accepted.
In addition, I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest that the transfer was 
carried out on an execution only or insistent client basis. 
But regardless of whether Munro-Greenhalgh was responsible for the recommendation, I 
also have to consider whether the advice itself might have been suitable. 
The suitability of the advice   
Munro-Greenhalghs main reason for suggesting that this advice was suitable is that Mrs R 
wanted to retire early. 
It says that its adviser met with Mrs R and her husband in 1998 to discuss that very same 
scenario  and the PPP was set up as a result to achieve that objective. It says that in 2003, when she was only 52 years old, Mrs R was able to withdraw her tax free cash and benefit 
from income payments from the drawdown plan into which she had transferred her PPP 
fund.
But while any benefit Mrs R received from that transfer would need to be taken into account 
when calculating any redress payable, I dont think its material to the outcome here. In 1998, 
when the recommendation was made, there was nothing to suggest that Mrs R wanted to 
retire early. At the time her situation would suggest she had sufficient savings to meet any 
capital requirements and she still held an outstanding repayment mortgage. Her husband 
had been advised to increase his pension payments that year and there was no suggestion 
that he wanted to retire early either. So I think any suggestion that Mrs R wanted to retire 
early, which was supported by her actions in 2003, has been made with the benefit of 
hindsight  and following her husbands death, which I think quite reasonably would have led 
to Mrs R rethinking her future retirement plans. 
But in any case, the OPS allowed for retirement at age 50, albeit with an actuarial reduction 
to the income she would receive. So Mrs R could have chosen to retire early under the 
scheme rules if she wanted. 
There are also other benefits that Mrs R could have received from the OPS which would 
suggest the advice to transfer wasnt suitable. 
The scheme pension increased each year in line with the Retail Price Index. The increase 
was still in place right up to the time of the transfer.
The death benefits from the scheme were equal to five times the deferred pension before 
retirement and a lump sum equal to five years annual income after retirement.  These were 
not insignificant benefits which Mrs R lost when she transferred. 
So, although its not possible to conclude that a PPP wouldnt have provided a greater 
income if Mrs R had retired early, the available evidence doesnt support that claim. But in 
any case, this would be determined when undertaking a redress calculation. However, I think 
that if Mrs R had been presented with an analysis of the key differences between the OPS 
and a new PPP, including a clear explanation of the guarantees she had built up over 22 
years of service within the OPS, then I dont think she would have gone ahead with the 
transfer. 
On balance, and after consideration of all the evidence Ive been provided with in this case, I 
dont consider the advice to be suitable and I dont think it was in Mrs Rs best interest. So 
Munro-Greenhalgh needs to undertake a redress calculation in line with what Ive set out 
below. 
Putting things right 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs R, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. 
Munro-Greenhalgh must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Rs acceptance of the 
decision.
Munro-Greenhalgh must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs R within 90 days of the date 
Munro-Greenhalgh receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes Munro-Greenhalgh to pay Mrs R.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Munro-Greenhalgh deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs R how much has been taken off. Munro-Greenhalgh 
should give Mrs R a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs R asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Munro-Greenhalgh (Life 
and Pensions).
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Munro-Greenhalgh (Life and Pensions) to pay 
Mrs R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Munro-
Greenhalgh (Life and Pensions) to pay Mrs R any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Munro-
Greenhalgh (Life and Pensions) to pay Mrs R any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Munro-Greenhalgh (Life and Pensions) pays Mrs R the balance. I additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs R.
If Mrs R accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Munro-Greenhalgh (Life and 
Pensions). My recommendation is not binding on Munro-Greenhalgh (Life and Pensions). 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mrs R may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman