DRN-3119943
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out in 1999. The PPI was 
added to the account at the same time as Mr H applied for the card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
Mr H says he was put under pressure by Lloyds to take the PPI, and that the bank 
didnt give him a proper choice about buying it. He says Lloyds told him he had to 
take the PPI to get the credit card he wanted. Ive noted everything Mr H has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr H and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
But I note that the PPI section of the credit card application form included an option 
to turn down the cover. And there is nothing on the form to suggest that taking the 
PPI was a condition of getting the credit card. So on balance I think Mr H wouldve 
realised he had a choice about buying the PPI. 
Without anything else to support what Mr H has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Lloyds didnt make him aware the PPI was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mr H, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman