DRN-1915917
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a series of payments made using 
his debit card and which he says he neither made nor authorised.
What happened
Mr A says that, late in the evening on 24 November 2019, he tried to withdraw £10 cash 
from an ATM. He entered his PIN, but nothing happened. He waited by the machine for a 
while, but his card wasnt returned.
The following day, around lunchtime, he checked his account and realised there had been 
several ATM withdrawals and point of sale transactions to the value of £4,022.07. He 
phoned the bank to dispute the transactions and report his card as lost.
Barclays investigated but could find no record that Mr As card had been used to try to 
withdraw £10 when and where he said it was. It wouldnt refund the transactions so Mr A 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
were a number of inconsistencies in what Mr A said had happened and that there was no 
record of his card being retained by the ATM. He concluded it was most likely that Mr A had 
carried out the transactions or that hed given authorisation for someone else to do so.
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory as some of it is here, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Our investigator has already set out in detail the evidence both parties have provided and 
what Mr A told us happened. Both parties are familiar with this, so I wont be detailing 
everything again here. That isnt because I havent taken everything into account, but 
because my role is to focus on what I consider material to the outcome of the complaint.
Im satisfied the disputed transactions were made using Mr As genuine card, rather than a 
copy of it. The information Ive been provided with shows that Mr As genuine card and PIN 
were used for the transactions. The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card itself, and 
its unlikely that anyone would have been able to guess it.
The bank says that there was no obvious point of compromise of the PIN. And I think thats 
right. Mr A says he tried to withdraw cash from an ATM using chip and PIN some time between 11.20pm and 11.30pm on the night of the disputed transactions. And he says there 
were two individuals standing nearby  although he didnt tell the bank that when he reported 
his card missing the following day. But Barclays obtained information from the ATM owner 
which doesnt show that Mr As card was used at its cash machine at all around that time. Mr 
A has been consistent in saying that he entered his PIN before the card was retained by the 
machine. In all likelihood there would have been a record of this if it had happened. And 
when the ATM owner confirmed there was no record that the card had been used, it didnt 
report any fault with the machine.
Mr A didnt phone the bank to report his card as lost until around 12.30pm the following day. 
But if his card has been retained by an ATM the night before, I would have expected him to 
call either straight away or first thing the following morning  his phone records show he was 
using his phone from around 8.30am.
Our investigator has explained why the transactions dont seem to reflect the actions of a 
typical fraudster. There was no balance enquiry before the ATM withdrawals; the person 
using the card seemed to know the daily withdrawal limit; there was an attempted 
transaction at 12.32pm on 25 November, just before Mr A reported his card as lost, and then 
no more attempts to use the card until around 9.55pm that evening. 
It is also strange that, after no attempts to use the card since 12.36am, the next attempt is at 
12.32pm just three minutes before Mr A logged onto his mobile banking.
Taking this all into consideration, I think the most likely explanation is that Mr A consented to 
the transactions  by either carrying them out himself, or by allowing someone else to.
I cant completely rule out the possibility that events unfolded as Mr A has described. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think thats likely. Ive considered what Mr A has said 
about not receiving any text messages or alerts from the bank about the transactions. But 
this doesnt change my conclusion  because Ive found it likely that Mr A consented to the 
transactions. For these reasons, it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays to refund them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman