DRN-2235533
The complaint
Mr R, who is represented by a third party, says Canada Square Operations Limited 
(CSOL), then trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
or around August 2003 alongside a credit card.
He says he didnt want or need the policy but was advised to take it out to get the credit 
card. 
What happened
Mr R applied for the card and the policy by way of an online application. The policy included 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding his case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R says its likely he had an initial discussion over the phone with a CSOL representative 
about taking out PPI. He says it was at this point he was told that by taking out PPI hed be 
more likely to be approved for the credit card. Ive not seen any record of this call and so 
Ive no way of knowing what exactly was said. It seems that Mr R went through the online 
process soon after that call, during which he made his decision to take out PPI. Given that 
he took the policy out by way of an online application, it looks like CSOL didnt make a 
recommendation that he should buy the PPI. But even though CSOL didnt recommend the 
PPI to Mr R, it still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
that he could decide whether to buy the PPI.
I dont have a copy of Mr Rs actual online application as CSOL hasnt been able to trace a 
copy, but Ive seen a sample. The internet process Mr R completed would broadly 
describe the purpose and benefits of the cover. He could also click through to another 
page to see the full policy details. Mr R was given the option of selecting a box saying 
Yes to the cover. There was also the option to say No. So I think Mr R ought to have 
that known he didnt have to take the policy. But he went ahead and chose to buy it.
Mr R said he thought he didnt have a choice about buying the policy and so it was 
automatically added to his credit card account. But having seen the sample screenshots 
and from what I already know about CSOLs internet sales process, I think Mr R ought to 
have been aware he had a choice between taking the PPI and not doing so.
I think Mr R was eligible to have the PPI policy when he applied for it. Mr R told us he 
would receive from his employer sick pay of six months at full pay followed by six months 
at half pay. He also told us about some savings he could have used to help if necessary. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to those savings and sick pay, for up to twelve 
months. So I think the policy wouldve still been useful, paying Mr R a monthly benefit to 
help him if he couldnt work, or were to lose his job. It also meant he wouldnt have to draw 
on other sources of income or dig into his existing savings.
Ive also seen a sample of the welcome letter that CSOL would have sent Mr R after he 
bought the policy. I can see that the letter set out the cost and main benefits of the policy 
and enclosed the policy terms. It didnt explain that the premium would be added to Mr Rs 
credit card balance and could attract interest, or that he would need to continue paying the 
premium if he made a successful claim. I cant be sure Mr R received the letter, or that he 
read it if he did.
The cost of the policy was 74p per £100 of outstanding credit card balance per month. 
This provided a benefit of 10% of the card balance being paid off in the event of a 
successful claim. I think the cost was reasonable. And although Ive set out above 
examples of better information that CSOL could have given Mr R, I think on balance that 
Mr R would have bought the policy anyway even if better information had been provided.
I realise Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. Ive seen that he has recently 
referred us to information hes seen online that suggests customers may not have been 
given a choice about taking out PPI online with an Egg card. However, taking into account 
what we already know about Egg PPI sales at this time, Ive not seen enough evidence or 
information to show or suggest that this is likely to have happened in Mr Rs case. 
Having looked into all the available evidence and information, I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman