DRN-3451343
The complaint
Ms A complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (SFAS) unfairly 
continued to charge premiums for her income protection policy during its final year when she 
wouldnt have been able to claim due to a 52-week deferral period.
What happened
Ms A held an income protection policy with SFAS which she originally took out in October 
1999. She complained that she was charged premiums between July 2020 and July 2021 
despite the fact that she couldnt benefit from the policy. This was because the policy was 
due to expire on 14 July 2021 but had a deferral period of 52 weeks where she wouldnt 
have been able to claim for any new illness. Ms A said that in effect, this meant she wouldnt 
be able to claim if she fell ill from 14 July 2020 onwards, but would still have to continue 
paying premiums. 
Ms A says that SFAS failed to make the significance of the deferral period clear and that she 
wouldnt be able to claim for any new illnesses occurring within the final year of the policy. 
SFAS said there was no restriction on the length of time following an illness that a belated 
claim could be made. They said that if she had fallen ill prior to 13 July 2020, then she could 
have received a pro-rata payment following the 52-week deferral period during the final year 
of the policy up until its expiry. As a result, they didnt think it was unfair to charge a premium 
during the final year.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt consider SFAS had made it clear that Ms A 
wouldnt be able to claim for a new illness during the final 52 weeks of her policy and thought 
they should refund the premiums she paid during this final year. SFAS disagreed, so the 
matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I appreciate that, in theory, a policyholder wouldnt be precluded from claiming during 
the final year of the policy for any illness that had occurred during the penultimate 
year, as the insurer has explained. But this scenario only benefits those who do in 
fact suffer an illness where the 52-week deferral period ends either before or part 
way through the policys final year. Ms A did not suffer any such illness. And if she 
had fallen ill during the policys final year, the terms and conditions state that she 
wouldnt have been able to claim for it. 
I accept that SFAS have made it clear that there was a 52-week deferral period to 
claim for any illness or disability. But it effectively means that Ms A couldnt claim for 
any illness if it was newly diagnosed during the final year of the policy, as it would 
overlap with the deferral period. This results in there being a clear limitation on being 
able to claim for any new illness during the last year of the policy, which the insurer 
ought to have made clear to Ms A. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that this 
limitation was clearly brought to her attention. So, Im not persuaded SFAS gave her 
enough information in order to make an informed decision about whether to continue 
with the cover during its final year. 
Ms A has said that if SFAS had made this clear, she would have cancelled the policy 
on 14 July 2020 rather than waiting for its expiry a year later. And given she was not 
suffering from any ill health at that time, I think she most likely would have cancelled 
it in July 2020 rather than choosing to pay for another year of cover where any newly 
diagnosed illness would fall within the 52-week deferral period. I therefore consider it 
would be fair and reasonable for SFAS to refund Ms A the premiums she paid for the 
final year of the policy up until its expiry. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited to refund Ms A the premiums she paid between July 2020 and 2021 during 
the final year of her income protection policy. SFAS should also pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on this amount from the date Ms A made the payments to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman