DRN-4281261
The complaint
Mr O complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank (Cashplus) 
failed to provide him with a working debit card on his bank account. 
What happened
Mr O says his debit card with Cashplus hasnt worked properly since February 2023 and 
despite having been sent numerous replacement cards, Mr O has been unable to use his 
card at cashpoints or at retail till points. Mr O says Cashplus havent been able to explain 
why his debit card wasnt working and havent been able to resolve the issue which has 
caused him considerable inconvenience. Mr O says he was upset to hear from Cashplus 
that because he was still using his bank account, that was ok, and he didnt feel this was an 
acceptable response to the problems he had faced. 
Mr O wants Cashplus to fix the issue on his card and pay him compensation for the 
inconvenience caused above the £25 it has offered. 
Cashplus explained to Mr O in its final response letter that its IT team was still looking into 
the issue regarding the problems he had been experiencing with his debit card and offered 
Mr O £25 by way of apology. Cashplus have since apologised for the service Mr O has 
experienced and said there was a known problem with debit cards produced between 
November 2022 and March 2023 for a small number of customers. Cashplus have since 
refunded the transfer fees charged from the beginning of March 2023 and apologised for not 
sending a new card in March 2023 when requested, but it has since arranged this.
Mr O wasnt happy with Cashpluss response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator didnt feel it was reasonable for Mr O not to have access to a working card for as 
long as he did without a clear explanation why. The investigator felt Cashplus should have 
ordered a replacement card in mid-March 2023 when requested and if it had, the issue could 
have been resolved much sooner. 
Given the inconvenience this matter caused Mr O, the investigator felt Cashplus should 
increase its offer of compensation to £250. 
Cashplus didnt agree with the investigators view and while it accepted it could have 
provided a better level of service, a sum of £100 in compensation would be more appropriate 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr O not to have full 
access to his debit card for as long as he did.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Cashplus could have provided Mr O with a 
better level of service and a fuller explanation of the issues during this time and if its offer of 
compensation is sufficient here. 
Mr Os complaint centres around the fact that despite him informing Cashplus he was unable 
to use his debit card at cashpoints or retailers till points, it was unable to resolve the problem 
or explain what the issue was, despite having sent numerous replacement cards. 
Mr O doesnt feel Cashpluss offer of £25 for the inconvenience he has faced is sufficient.
The first thing to say here is Cashplus have accepted it hasnt delivered the level of service it 
should have during the months Mr O wasnt able to make full use of his bank account due to 
a technical issue on his debit card. Here, Mr O was forced into having to make transfers to 
another account so he could carry out his day- to-day banking needs which made his 
personal difficult circumstances even more stressful. In addition, Mr O also had to contact 
Cashplus to arrange transfers as hed exceeded his monthly transfer limit, which wouldnt 
have been the case if the matter had been resolved sooner- only adding to the 
inconvenience he suffered here. 
I can see that in June 2023 a new card was issued to Mr O, which Cashplus accepts it 
should have sent earlier in mid-March 2023 when it was asked for, and its reasonable to say 
if it had done that sooner Mr O wouldnt have gone through the trouble he did.  
So, while Cashplus may not agree, I do feel Mr O has gone through an unreasonable level of 
inconvenience here over several months, some of which could and should have been 
avoided and with that in mind I support the investigators view, and I am satisfied that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, £250 is a more reasonable level of redress. 
While Cashplus will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to pay Mr O a total 
of £250  for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to pay Mr O a total 
of £250  for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman