DRN-4071575
The complaint
Mr E complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) failed to provide him 
with a suitable replacement handset, when dealing with a claim under his mobile phone 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had a mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant. In March 2021 Mr E had cause for 
claim under that policy. Assurant dealt with the claim by providing Mr E with a 
remanufactured replacement handset. The handset came with the twelve month warranty.
In November 2022 Mr E contacted Assurant as he had begun having connectivity issues 
with the phone. He believed this to be because the handset was a US model and not a UK 
model. Assurant explained that if Mr E wanted the phone assessed he would have to make 
new claim under the policy, as he had had use of the handset for over 12 months and the 
warranty in the handset had expired.
Mr E says it took a long time to bring his concerns to Assurant as he changed network 
provider sometime after the claim, which was when he began to experience problems. He 
says the new network provider took a long time to investigate this, but concluded the issue 
was because of the handset being a US model.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
Replacements
(1) when we replace the mobile phone the replacement will be a remanufactured (not 
brand-new) device
(2) 
Mr E complained to Assurant as he believed it should have been dealt with under the original 
claim. Assurant didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr E brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint in summary they said they believed 
assurance offer to assess the phone under a new claim was a fair one.
Mr E disagreed and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
The terms and conditions of the policy allow Assurant to replace handset with a 
remanufactured one. Assurant have explained their stock of handsets are remanufactured 
by the original manufacturer and are all refurbished for use in the UK and are unlocked to 
work on any network. Some satisfied Assurant dealt with the original claim in-line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand Mr Es concerns that he only experienced problems once he changed network, 
and that the network provider has told him this is due to the handset being it US model. 
However, I havent seen any evidence that supports this was the cause of the problem. But 
to be clear, even if there was evidence to support this, I dont think it would change things 
here, as Assurant arent refusing to investigate the problems with Mr Es handset, they are 
just saying it would be a new claim. Which in the circumstances, given Mr E has had use of 
the handset for over 12 months, I think its fair.
I know Mr E will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Assurant  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman