DRN-2195431
The complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank Plc declined multiple applications to open an account and
gave him conflicting information about the outcome of his applications.
What happened
Mr P made several applications for a bank account with HSBC between May and September
2019. And he attempted to do so online and over the phone.
Mr P made attempts to provide the information HSBC requested, but his applications were
declined. Mr P felt this was due to where he lived. He also thought his application wasn't
successful because he is financially self-sufficient, and HSBC refuse to accept his financial
status. Mr P didn't think this was fair as his income comes from funds he invested around 
10 years ago. Mr P was also unhappy he couldnt complete his applications online due to 
where he lived. He also felt HSBC had sent him incorrect information throughout the 
application process. As Mr P was unhappy, he raised a complaint with HSBC.
HSBC investigated Mr P concerns and issued their final response. In this they explained
they couldn't share the reasons for his application being declined because they were
commercially sensitive. However, it was down to the information he'd provided with his
application. They also took on board his thoughts about not being able to apply online.
HSBC also said the application process took longer than Mr P had expected due to the
number of applications he had made. Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint
to our service. Mr P told us he needed HSBC to open an account for him because the 
account he currently holds was due to be closed.
Our investigator investigated Mr P's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. He
explained that he didn't think Mr P had provided HSBC with the information they'd asked for.
Our investigator said HSBC's request for further information was in line with the terms and
conditions of the account, as well as the relevant rules and regulations.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He said HSBC had breached Payment Account
Regulations by not offering him a basic bank account when his application was declined. He
was also unhappy the investigator hadn't addressed the customer service issues he had 
raised about the application process.
Our investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so Mr P's complaint was passed to
me to investigate.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 June 2020. In this, I explained that I didnt consider 
Mr Ps complaint should be upheld, but I did so in more detail than our investigator and 
commented on the service Mr P had received from HSBC. 
My provisional decision explained I didnt consider Mr P had been treated unfairly because 
I couldnt see he had provided HSBC with the information theyd requested to consider his 
application for a premier account. And as this information hadnt been provided, I also didnt 
consider HSBC had done anything wrong by not opening a basic bank account for him. 
I also said there were failings in the level of communication from HSBC about Mr Ps 
applications. But I wasnt minded to award anything because I considered Mr Ps decision to 
make multiple applications played some part in the confusion and inconvenience, he 
experienced.
Both HSBC and Mr P had until 30 July 2020 to provide further comments and or evidence for 
me to consider. HSBC didnt have anything to add. Mr P sent a lot of correspondence 
outlining why he disagreed with my provisional decision, and the crux of his points were:
my provisional decision was based on assumptions rather than facts;
I had contradicted and ignored relevant legislation and regulation; and
he hadnt previously been asked to provide proof that hed tried to open other basic 
bank accounts.
Ive considered everything Mr P has provided following my provisional decision, alongside all 
the information we already had on file. Having done so, my decision remains unchanged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I know this isnt the 
outcome he hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
In my provisional decision, I broke Mr Ps complaint into two parts. But given his responses, 
I consider it would be more helpful if my final decision separates his complaint into three 
parts to ensure the reasoning is as clear as possible. Ill address each point under the 
relevant heading.
I again, think it would be helpful to remind Mr P that our service is an informal alternative to 
the Courts. So, while my decision may not be as lengthy and formal as his own 
correspondence, I wanted to assure him that Ive thoroughly considered everything relevant 
to his complaint before reaching my decision.
Mr Ps application for a premier account
Mr P and HSBC sent copies of their correspondence from Mr Ps applications for a premier 
account. And having reviewed this, Ive seen that Mr Ps applications werent successful 
because HSBC werent satisfied with the information hed provided to demonstrate the 
source of the funds he wanted to deposit into the account. However, Mr P feels he gave 
HSBC all the information they needed to accept his application.
Given the amount Mr P planned to deposit, HSBC wanted information to show the source of 
the funds Mr P had invested. Its not unusual for a bank, like HSBC, to do this. Thats 
because theyre expected to ensure theyre only handling legitimately gained funds. And its 
for this reason I dont consider HSBCs request for further information was unreasonable.
Mr P sent HSBC information about his finances. However, theyve said the documentation 
provided didnt contain the information they needed. And having reviewed these documents, 
I agree.
Ive taken on board what Mr P has said about the difficulties he faced in getting documents 
with the information HSBC requested. However, it doesnt take away from the fact I consider 
HSBCs request was reasonable. And as Mr P hasnt provided what was asked for, I dont consider HSBC treated him unfairly when they declined his applications for a premier 
account.
HSBCs refusal to open a basic bank account
When Mr Ps applications for a premier account were declined, he then asked for a basic 
bank account to be opened. However, HSBC said they wouldnt consider further applications 
from him - for any type of account. Mr P says HSBCs decision isnt in line with the Payment 
Account Regulations 2015.
Banks have a responsibility to carry out checks on applicants and where their funds are 
coming from. Mr P has been unable to provide enough evidence for HSBC to satisfy their 
legitimate obligations. Its for this reason, Mr Ps application for a basic bank account was 
declined. And Im satisfied that decision and the way it was explained to Mr P was in line 
with the 2015 regulations. I dont consider HSBC are obliged to give Mr P any further 
information about their decision.
Following my provisional decision, Mr P initially said he couldnt apply for basic accounts 
with other banks due to the global pandemic. He later told us that hes been unable to open 
accounts due to where he lives, and he sent us screenshots to support this point.
Ive considered this information, but this doesnt persuade me to change my decision. As 
mentioned above, Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with the 2015 regulations when they 
declined his application. So, the decision other banks may have made and/or make doesnt 
change things here. 
If Mr P has concerns about the outcome of his applications with other banks, then he would 
need to take that up with them directly. 
The level of customer service provided
Mr P is unhappy with HSBCs overall handling of his applications. This includes the time 
taken for his applications to be reviewed, the conflicting information he was provided, and 
being unable to apply for a premier account online. 
Mr P was unable to make online applications due to where he lives. And I can understand 
why he would have found this frustrating. However, Mr P was still able to make applications 
over the phone, or in branch, if he was able to visit one. I also cant ignore the fact that other 
potential customers who live in Mr Ps area cant apply online. So, this rule applies to all 
people with similar circumstances to Mr P. As alternative arrangements are in place for 
customers like Mr P, I dont agree HSBC has done anything wrong here.
It took several months for Mr P to get a final answer from HSBC in respect of his 
applications. However, I think the actions of both HSBC and Mr P contributed to these 
delays. HSBC could have been more efficient. However, I dont think Mr P making multiple 
applications over a short period of time helped the situation.
The main reason for the problems with Mr Ps applications was due to him and HSBC 
disagreeing on the information needed during the application process. I agree with Mr P that 
HSBC shouldnt have sent him a letter saying his application was declined due to his age. 
This mistake was avoidable and added to the frustration Mr P was already experiencing. But 
given everything, I dont consider the impact was enough to warrant compensation.
As mentioned above, I consider things could have been handled differently by both parties to 
this complaint. But overall, I dont consider HSBC needs to do anything to put things right.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman