DRN-3201493
Complaint
Miss F has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly increased the 
interest rate on her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought RBS should have realised that 
Miss F was experiencing difficulty by October 2017 and so it needed to refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added from this point. RBS didnt accept our adjudicators view 
and instead agreed to refund the interest from February 2020 onwards. As Miss F didnt 
accept RBS offer, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
RBS has queried why our adjudicator looked at what happened in relation to Miss Fs 
overdraft before February 2020 when Miss F had pointed to the change in its overdraft 
charging structure as being the source of her problems. However, RBS will be aware that 
our inquisitorial remit allows us to look back to when any unfairness might have started even 
if a consumer may not realise they had been in a position where they were going to struggle 
to repay what they owed much earlier than they thought.
And having carefully considered everything provided, I also think RBS acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest, fees and charges from October 2017. By this point, RBS would 
have seen that Miss F had been hardcore borrowing for an extended period. In other words, 
Miss Fs account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy periods without returning to 
credit. Miss F may have had an above average salary but its fair to say that she had a large 
overdraft limit. And the length of time she spent overdrawn was indicative of a customer who 
was struggling to return to a credit balance. Indeed, its worth noting that Miss F only had 
brief and somewhat sporadic periods where she had a credit balance, over a period of years.
As RBS didnt react to Miss Fs account usage  particularly her inability to return to a credit 
balance - and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards her. And as this led to Miss F paying additional interest, fees and 
charges when she was already struggling, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of RBS 
failing to act fairly and reasonably towards her. So RBS needs to put things right.
Fair compensation what RBS needs to do to put things right for Miss F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Fs complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Fs account balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it (and not already refunded) from October 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Miss F to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss F is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with RBS to reach a 
suitable agreement for this.. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Fs credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the account 
from October 2017. RBS can also reduce Miss Fs overdraft limit by the amount 
of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Fs credit file. RBS can also 
reduce Miss Fs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must give 
Miss F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Miss Fs complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman