DRN-2558094
The complaint
Ms As complained that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (HRG) defaulted her
account when they shouldnt have done. And this has affected her credit score.
What happened
In early 2018, Ms A bought goods using an HRG store card. She was offered a Buy Now, 
Pay Later arrangement, which meant she didnt have to make any payments in the six 
months after her purchase and no interest would be charged. Any balance outstanding at the 
end of six months would be subject to interest. And Ms A would have to start making 
repayments.
Ms A didnt make any payments in the first six months. So her bill for July 2018 showed she 
had to start making payments towards her balance - including the interest that had accrued.
Ms A made two payments in July and a payment in August. But these payments werent 
credited to her account. So Ms As statements for August and September 2018 showed that 
shed not made the minimum payment required.
In September 2018, Ms A contacted HRG to find out what had happened to the payments 
shed made. HRG said theyd investigate and asked Ms A to provide confirmation of how 
shed paid. During the call, Ms A also set up a direct debit for the minimum payment.
In the following months, HRG collected the minimum payments due from Ms As account. 
But her statements continued to show that shed missed two payments and what the 
consequences of that could be.
In November, HRG sent Ms A a default notice. The notice said that she had to make the 
missing payments within the following 14 days. And it warned her that, if she didnt, HRG 
would terminate her credit agreement, the full outstanding balance would be due and HRG 
may register a default with a credit reference agency.
The following month, HRG wrote to Ms A again. They told her they were terminating her 
credit agreement and a default would be registered. The month after that, the debt was 
referred to a debt recovery agency.
Ms A complained to HRG about them registering a default and passing her account to a debt 
recovery agency. HRG rejected her complaint. They said theyd asked Ms A to provide 
evidence shed made the missing payments - but shed not sent them anything. And they 
said the default had been entered because theyd no evidence that payment had been made 
in line with the credit agreement. Finally, they said her account had been assigned to the 
debt recovery agency in line with their business process.
Ms A brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it. She thought HRG had 
applied the default fairly, because nothing had been credited to Ms As account for two 
months. And shed been sent letters warning her that this might happen.
But she did think that HRG shouldnt have charged interest and late payment fees for July 
and August 2018 because it wasnt clear whose fault it was the payments Ms A had made 
werent credited. So she said the interest and charges should be refunded.
I disagreed with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision explaining why I 
didnt intend to uphold her complaint.  I said Id seen that Ms A hadnt used the right details 
to make payments in July and August 2018  which is why theyd not been credited to her 
account.  I said I couldnt hold HRG responsible for that.
And I saw that HRG asked Ms A for evidence of the payments shed made.  But she didnt 
provide this until early 2020  many months after her account was defaulted.  In the 
circumstances, I thought it was reasonable for HRG to conclude theyd not received any 
payments and to charge interest and make late payment charges.  And I thought it was 
reasonable for them to default Ms As account and refer it to a debt collection agency when 
the position hadnt been put right.
HRG havent commented on my provisional decision.  Ms As told me that shed made 
payments before using the same method  so she couldnt understand why thered been a 
problem.  And she said shed not received correspondence about the default.  Nor had HRG 
dealt with the fact that shed made payments in July and August 2018 which hadnt been 
credited to her account, or provided her with copy documents shed requested from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.  Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms A that I did receive the additional information I requested from 
HRG and considered it before I made my provisional decision  and this one.
I cant comment on any other payments Ms A made to HRG.  But Ive seen copies of Ms As 
bank statements.  And Ive seen that payments successfully credited to her HRG account 
describe the payee as Home Retail Group Milton Keynes.  But the payments in July and 
August arent described like this  they say theyre bill payments to two other companies.   
So Im satisfied from what Ive seen that she didnt pay HRG in July and August 2018.
I accept Ms A intended to make payment to HRG. She made payments online from her bank 
account.  That meant she was responsible for selecting the right payee.  And I cant hold 
HRG responsible for the fact she didnt do that.
As I said in my provisional decision, HRG asked Ms A for details of the payments she made 
so they could investigate why theyd not received them.  But Ms A didnt provide them with 
any evidence until early 2020  more than a year after theyd defaulted her account.  And I 
explained I thought it had been reasonable to default the account, in the absence of 
payments or anything to show payments had been made.  Ive not been persuaded 
differently by anything Ive received since then.
Ms A told me she didnt get any correspondence about the default. Ive thought about this.  
But Ive seen the letters and default notice HRG sent.  They were sent to Ms As address.  
So it was reasonable for HRG to believe their letters had been received  and to act on the 
basis they had when they progressed to default Ms As account and pass it to a debt 
recovery agency.
As Ive said above, I dont doubt that Ms A made payments in July and August 2018.  They 
werent credited to her HRG account.  So its understandable she wants those payments 
back.  But I cant deal with that in this decision unless Im satisfied HRG are responsible for 
withholding them.  And I dont think thats the case.  
HRGs records show that payments were sent to other bodies.  I said in my provisional 
decision that HRG should make Ms A aware of those details so she could approach them for 
her money to be returned.  Ive now seen a message HRG sent to Ms A in March 2020 
giving her those details.  
And Ive seen that HRG sent Ms A the documents she requested in April 2020.  HRG have 
confirmed they were sent by recorded delivery and were signed for.  So Im satisfied theyve 
dealt with this  and I dont think HRG need to do anything more in relation to Ms As 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint about Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman