DRN-3321420
The complaint
Mr H has complained that advice given to him by Foresight Financial Planning Limited 
(Foresight) not to switch his pension fund into cash was unsuitable. 
What happened
In brief, Mr Hs annual review of his pension arrangements took place on 9 January 2020. 
There was a discussion and a fact find, retirement planning questionnaire and a risk profile 
were completed. Mr H wanted to take £10,000 from his pension fund before the end of the 
tax year to repay a debt and to make a gift. He didnt expect to take any further benefits from 
his pension until he reached state pension age in about nine years time. His objective was 
long term growth. 
Foresights recommendations, set out in its suitability letter dated 27 January 2020,  were to 
withdraw £10,000 to meet Mr H's needs to repay the debt and make a gift and to switch from 
50% Defensive, 25% Cautious and 25% Balanced to 50% Balanced and 50% Growth using 
Foresights Discretionary Model portfolio. 
Mr H accepted the recommendations. He had some queries to which Foresight responded. 
On 28 January 2020 he signed the switch and withdrawal paperwork. The trades were 
entered on the providers platform on 29 January 2020 and confirmation was issued to Mr H 
on 6 February that the payment had been made. 
The day before, 5 February 2020, Mr H had emailed Foresight. Mr H said:  
I just wanted to let you have my present thoughts regarding my pension funds etc especially 
with the ongoing situation with the Corona Virus and the potential downside effect this could 
have on stock markets etc worldwide??
My thoughts are to move my funds into cash for the short term, instead of the balanced and 
growth funds, and watch what happens with the stock market etc. over the next few months. 
My instinct is that there is more potential downside to the markets over the next few months 
and, as you pointed out in your report, losses or gains could be made depending on when 
the pension monies are invested into the funds. 
Consequently, I see more gain potentially in the long term being made by reinvesting my 
pension pot in the funds when prices are lower and more can be bought with the pot, what 
are your thoughts?? 
As with everything, I know there is an element of risk and that reading the markets is not an 
exact science, but thought I ought to let you know what my gut instinct is saying to me at this 
time.
Foresights adviser responded the same day. In summary, the adviser confirmed that Mr Hs 
investments had already been moved into the Balanced and Growth portfolios (although as 
mentioned below it later emerged thered been some problems with executing the trades). 
The adviser said that coronavirus would no doubt present some challenges to the global 
economy over the next twelve months. His email continued:
however I would not recommend trying to time the market by moving into cash now and 
then returning to long-term investment later. Governments have already moved to provide 
financial support to areas of the market affected directly or indirectly by the coronavirus, 
thereby helping to prop up affected markets. The virus is likely to result in increased market 
volatility, an environment in which active fund managers are especially good at exploiting 
market inefficiencies, a type of investment style called arbitrage investing (buying when 
others dislike or are avoiding an investment/area of the market).
 While there is merit in buying low and selling high, this is something best left to the fund 
managers actively rebalancing their portfolios i.e. selling investments have grown well and 
buying underperforming assets which they think will do better in the future, rather than 
simply selling into cash and trying to time the market as to when to next get back in. 
Many studies have been done into market timing and there is significant amounts of 
evidence that shows that nobody can accurately time the market. 
Therefore my recommendation would be to leave your investments unchanged, however if 
you would still like to sell your pension investments I will put together the necessary 
paperwork to proceed. 
I am away from the office all day tomorrow, but will be back in on Friday.
Ive seen that Mr H responded saying:
Thank you for getting back to me so quickly and for your comments, which I fully appreciate.
As you point out, the fund managers are actively keeping an eye on matters and I am happy 
with your advice to leave things as they are. 
Should my gut instinct ever become overwhelming, I will let you know, fully realising that I 
have to accept the consequences of any actions I decide to take, should I do so. 
Thank you once again, I hope you don't mind me discussing my thoughts with you when 
they get hold of me.
An issue then arose as the switches hadnt been completed on the platform. Foresight 
emailed the provider on 10 February 2020 with details of the switches instructed on 28 
January 2020. The providers response said, because a sell and switch had been created, 
there were conflicting open orders. Foresight raised a complaint with the provider saying the 
trades shouldve been executed on 29 January 2019.  
Mr H complained to Foresight in March 2020. Foresight wrote to Mr H on 21 and 28 May 
2020. In the earlier letter and amongst other things, Foresight referred to the platform 
problems but said that Mr H hadnt been financially disadvantaged. In the later letter, in 
response to Mr Hs email of the same date, Foresight dealt with what Mr H had said about 
the advice hed received on 5 February 2020 not to sell his investment portfolio. 
In summary, Foresight said the advice was based on the telephone call that had taken place 
on 9 January 2020 during which a number of advice issues were identified as Mr Hs 
circumstances and pension requirements had changed since the original advice in 
December 2017. Foresight said market timing was notoriously difficult to get right, not only in 
choosing when to sell, but in timing re entry. Foresight noted Mr Hs email reply saying that 
he fully appreciated the advisers comments and was happy to leave things as they were. 
Foresight maintained the advice was appropriate. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened. But he didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. The 
investigators main points were:  
Mr H had said that on 5 February 2020 hed wanted to switch into cash due to the 
coronavirus situation. But the investigator didnt consider Mr Hs email was a definitive statement to move into cash. Rather it stated Mr Hs gut feelings and 
asked for the advisers thoughts. The advisers response wasnt untoward or 
incorrect. And Mr H had responded, saying he was happy with the advice to leave 
things as they were.
The advice was reasonable. It was aligned to Mr Hs attitude to risk and his objective 
 retirement planning with a growth strategy over an approximate nine year term. 
That didnt mean Mr Hs initial preference for a move to cash was wrong. But (and 
without the benefit of hindsight) that didnt mean the advice was wrong either. 
The investigator referred to what Mr H had said in his email of 28 January 2020 and 
which suggested that he might be considering self investing and managing his 
pension fund himself. The investigator accepted that Mr H might now regret not doing 
that and trusting his own instincts. But the advice wasnt flawed. The investigator set 
out by reference to the suitability letter why the advice matched Mr Hs attitude to 
risk, needs, objectives and timescales. And the suitability letter had contained 
warnings about fund performance and stock market movements. 
Mr H had said that the trades hadnt been completed on 29 January 2020 due to the 
platform issue and so couldve been stopped. But the investigator maintained that the 
emails showed that Mr H didnt set out a definitive preference but his thoughts with a 
request for comments (which were received) and his conclusion was to go along with 
the original recommendation. 
Timing the market is difficult to achieve and opinions as to that and time in the market 
differed. But Mr Hs specific objective of growth for retirement planning over the 
longer term could be achieved via the recommendation and so the advice was 
reasonable.
Mr H was disappointed with the investigators views. Ive summarised his comments:
The investigators view was based on the annual review on 9 January 2020 carried 
out when no one had heard of Covid 19 and its associated risks. His complaint 
concerned the advice given after the onset of Covid 19. He likened the situation to 
living on the side of a dormant volcano. If it hadnt erupted for years and showed no 
signs that it would, someone might to happy to take the risk of living there. But if it 
then became active, that persons attitude to the risk would change dramatically. The 
seismic change in circumstances as a direct result of Covid 19 cant be ignored. The 
advice wasnt reasonable given the situation and the circumstances at the time 
His email of 5 February 2020 was definitive. It took what he termed a monumental 
effort to persuade Foresight that he should be able to access funds in his pension, 
which was his money and which he should be free to do with as he chose. He felt 
hed been forced to jump through hoops to justify why he wanted the money and 
what he wanted to do with it. Hed felt obliged to outline his reasons for wanting to 
move to cash in his email of 5 February 2020 and seek approval from Foresight, 
rather than just instruct Foresight to move his funds into cash. 
But that didnt mean his wish to move his funds to cash was any less definitive. It was 
clear and unambiguous and he simply expected Foresight to highlight any issues and 
provide him with the pros and cons. Instead the advice centred around leaving the 
funds invested, saying fund managers were best placed to take advantage of any 
downturn in the market by way of arbitrage investing and which, it was implied, 
would benefit him. He felt that only had merit when trading times are normal but not 
when the markets are faced with an inevitable collapse in value, which he said was 
self evident on 5 February 2020. The markets were then at an all time high and to 
suggest that would continue in the face of Covid 19 was, at best, wishful thinking. But 
Foresights comments dissuaded him from taking the action he considered was best 
at the time. Moving funds to cash doesnt benefit fund managers as they earn their fees from 
funds being invested. But that doesnt mean it isnt prudent to move to cash in 
uncertain times. Although if everyone did that the financial system would collapse. 
But that doesnt mean everyone should be dissuaded if thats their choice. 
He referred to some of his emails to Foresight, including one sent on 10 January 
2020 in which he said his understanding was that if he managed his pension fund 
himself withdrawing funds would be less complicated than doing that through 
Foresight.  
The investigator considered Mr Hs comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his views. 
He explained that, in reaching his view, hed taken into account all the evidence, including 
the content of Mr Hs emails. Mr H had emailed Foresight on 5 February 2020  with his 
thoughts about the onset of Covid 19. Foresight responded and Mr H apparently accepted 
that. Foresights advice was reasonable. Although the effect of a pandemic hadnt been 
known for a generation, the markets had had to ensure similar shocks. The evidence  
including the annual review and the emails  didnt show the email was a definitive 
statement or change in outlook or risk profile. 
What Mr H had said about making a huge effort to persuade Foresight to allow him to 
access his funds didnt appear to be the case from the evidence. It didnt seem Mr H was 
unhappy with the service hed been receiving. He hadnt moved advisers or made any 
discontent known. And Mr H had thanked the adviser for the advice and the detailed 
explanations provided.  
Regulated advisers are required to document advice given and consider ongoing suitability. 
Where a withdrawal of funds is requested the adviser has to consider the long terms effects 
and if what the customer wants is consistent with their overall needs. Mr H had discussed a 
possible strategy and the adviser had recommended another approach which Mr H had 
accepted. The investigator didnt agree that Mr Hs wish to move into cash was clear and 
unambiguous. After the adviser had responded, Mr H had reverted to say that he was happy 
with the advice to leave things as they were. But that should his gut instinct ever become 
overwhelming, hed let the adviser know. 
The investigator didnt agree that the advice had no merit when markets were faced with an 
inevitable collapse in value. He said various trading strategies were favoured by different 
advisers and others. Thered been a number of shocks and downturns over the longer term 
history of the markets. The investigator also thought there might be an element of hindsight 
in identifying a perceived lost opportunity. 
Mr H remained unconvinced. He said his adviser had moved a further £20,000 from cash 
into investment funds on 25 February 2020 after hed become aware of Mr Hs feelings 
about the Covid 19 situation. The adviser had said hed had to force this payment through. 
Mr H queried why that had been the case and why the adviser hadnt called him to check 
that was something he still wanted to do and when hed already made the adviser aware of 
his preference to be holding cash. 
The investigators view was that the transaction had already been agreed and the reference 
to forcing through was to do with platform issues. The investigator said that as agreement 
couldnt be reached the complaint would be looked at by an ombudsman. 
More recently, Mr H has raised the issue of ongoing fees charged by Foresight during the 
period his complaint has been with this service. Mr H thought Foresight should reimburse the 
fees it had taken while his complaint was with this service. Our investigator said Mr H would 
need to raise that as a new complaint with Foresight. Ive not considered that issue as part of 
this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything although Im only going to refer to what I see as the 
main issues. I dont disagree with the views expressed by the investigator and the reasons 
he gave. I dont have much to add. 
I realise that Mr H will be disappointed by my findings. In a nutshell, I dont think theres any 
dispute that he was concerned about the possible effects of Covid 19 on the financial 
markets generally and on his fund value. And he felt he might be better off by switching his 
pension fund into cash. He shared his concerns with Foresights adviser who advised 
against switching. Mr H accepted that. 
I think Foresights advice  both as set out in its suitability letter dated 27 January 2020 and 
in the advisers response to Mr Hs email - was suitable. It matched Mr Hs circumstances, 
needs, (increased) appetite for risk and anticipated time horizon. 
With hindsight Mr H may have been better off if hed switched into cash in early February 
2020 as he was contemplating. I assume hed have then at some point reinvested. And his 
portfolio might now show an overall gain. But given that I dont think the advice to remain 
invested was unsuitable, it follows that Mr H hasnt suffered any loss in consequence of 
Foresight giving him unsuitable advice to do (or not do) something. So no redress is due.   
I agree that the timing of the matter was somewhat unfortunate. When Mr Hs annual review 
was undertaken, Covid 19 wasnt a particular issue. But, by the time Mr H had accepted 
Foresights advice and the fund switches were underway, things had changed and the 
pandemic was emerging. 
I note Mr Hs analogy with a dormant volcano which then becomes active. But I dont think 
the situation with the financial markets is quite the same. Although the pandemic itself was 
new and its effects uncertain, the markets regularly face pressures from time to time for a 
variety of reasons and/or events which may result in short or longer term volatility. The usual 
advice, for a medium or longer term investor, is to remain invested (in line with the investors 
objectives and attitude to risk and financial circumstances generally). 
I think most advisers will try to discourage attempts to time the market and buy and sell 
assets to try to pre emp market price movements. Its usually viewed as a strategy which is 
unlikely to succeed. Longer term investors are able to withstand periods of volatility in the 
expectation that overall growth will result. 
  
Mr H says it was his money and he should be free to do with it as he chose. But Mr H wasnt 
just making his own decisions. Hed instructed Foresight to give him advice about his 
pension fund. Foresight had a duty to provide suitable advice. As Ive said, I dont think many 
advisers would advocate a strategy aimed at beating the markets. 
Mr H says he felt he had to seek approval from Foresight rather than simply instructing 
Foresight to do what he wanted. And I note that was why he says his email of 5 February 
2020 was couched in the terms that it was. But, in the absence of any other evidence which 
might show that Mr Hs relationship with Foresight was as he says, its difficult to see why 
the email shouldnt be taken at face value. It appears to be Mr H sharing his thoughts with 
Foresight about the Covid 19 situation and seeking Foresights views on what he should do. I dont see the email was a clear and unambiguous instruction to switch into cash. In the 
absence of a settled and definite instruction to switch into a named fund or funds, I cant say 
that Foresight acted incorrectly by responding to Mr Hs email in the terms that it did and 
advising him to remain invested. I dont think Foresight shouldve responded to the email by 
putting in hand the necessary steps to disinvest Mr Hs pension portfolio. 
Mr H says he expected Foresight to highlight any issues (with a switch to cash) and provide 
him with the pros and cons. In effect thats what Foresight did  it explained why it wouldnt 
recommend that Mr H proceed with a switch. 
I dont agree with what Mr H says about advice to remain invested not being justified when 
the markets were clearly going to fall. With the benefit of hindsight it might now appear that 
significant falls couldnt be avoided but that and the extent and duration of any falls and how 
long recovery might take, couldnt be predicted. Im not sure about any references to 
arbitrage trading and how it might work in Mr Hs favour if markets fell. But I dont think the 
basic principle, of remaining invested, represented poor advice. Id expect most advisers to 
give the same advice. I dont think it was unsuitable advice. 
And Mr H apparently accepted Foresights advice to remain invested. Mr H replied saying he 
accepted the advice to leave things as they were. If hed been unhappy with the response or 
determined to switch funds, I think he shouldve made that clear to Foresight and followed up 
Foresights reply with a firm instruction to switch. I note that the adviser offered Mr H that 
opportunity  the adviser said in his email response that although his recommendation would 
be that Mr H leave his investments unchanged, if he still wanted to sell, the adviser would 
put together the necessary paperwork when he was next in the office. That would appear to 
be a recognition that it was Mr Hs money and the final decision as to what to do rested with 
him. And that the adviser would be prepared to facilitate Mr Hs wishes and a switch into 
cash if that was what Mr H wanted. Against that background I cant see that there was any 
attempt to dissuade Mr H from switching into cash. 
I note that in his response Mr H added that should his gut instinct ever become 
overwhelming, hed let the adviser know and that he realised hed have to accept the 
consequences of any action he decided to take. I think that indicates Mr H did know, despite 
what Foresight had said and that its advice was to remain invested, that if he gave a firm 
instruction it would be acted on. And that, ultimately, it was his choice as to whether he 
accepted the advisers advice or instructed Foresight to do something different. 
Ive noted Mr Hs comments about the further £20,000 moved from cash on 25 February 
2020. But my understanding is that was part of the strategy that had been recommended on 
27 January 2020 and to which Mr H had agreed. He did then have some second thoughts 
about things as the pandemic emerged and as evidenced by his email of 5 February 2020. 
But, as Ive said, he then accepted what the adviser said and decided against instructing his 
disinvestment. I dont think Foresight did anything wrong by continuing to implement Mr Hs 
instructions when hed confirmed he wanted to proceed.
I can see that Mr H has felt some frustration in accessing his pension fund. But making a 
withdrawal from a pension fund isnt always entirely straightforward and can have tax and 
other consequences  it may impact on the ability to make further contributions. An adviser 
will want to explore options and ensure that withdrawing from a pension fund - the purpose 
of which is to provide an income in retirement  is suitable and that the process complies 
with regulatory requirements.   
Im sorry that Mr H will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold his complaint.My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman