DRN-3049010
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund 
payments she made after falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs S was looking for a high interest investment opportunity. She came across 
company P which she says was advertised heavily on a number of websites, as well as in a 
regular investment circulated email she received. 
Mrs S checked the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website and found P, who were a 
subsidiary of a well-known UK construction firm. After a few conversations with contacts at P 
and receiving information about the investment opportunities they had available, Mrs S 
completed an application form and provided identification in order to make an investment.
Mrs S says she was given an account number to pay her funds into, and she contacted the 
bank the account was held with to verify if the account she was going to pay her funds into 
was legitimate. But the bank wasnt prepared to give Mrs S any information as she wasnt an 
authorised party to the account. Mrs S says all the documentation was professional, the 
website looked legitimate and her checks had shown that P was a genuine company  so 
she decided to proceed.
Mrs S made three separate payments to P to invest in bonds. In July 2018 she paid £5,000, 
followed by £4,850 two weeks later and a third payment of £10,000 a couple of weeks later 
in August 2018. The bonds were fixed for a one-year term and offered a return of 12.9% per 
annum. 
In January 2019, P got in touch with Mrs S again and let her know theyd been successful in 
securing a major construction contract for the UK government and were looking for 
investors. They said the new bond would offer a 20% return for a six-month deposit.
Mrs S was given different bank account information to make her payment to, and says she 
called the bank that held the account to ask if the account was legitimate. Again, the bank 
wouldnt provide any information to Mrs S as she wasnt an authorised party to the account.  
Mrs S says that she didnt have concerns about paying her funds into different accounts 
each time, as the investments were in different construction projects which each had their 
own account. And Mrs S had received bond certificates for each of her prior investments. 
So, Mrs S made a further four payments over the space of 48 hours, in the amounts of: 
£500, £5,000, £5,000 and £1,000. This took Mrs Ss total investment with P up to £31,350.
A couple of weeks after she made her last payment in January 2019, Halifax called Mrs S.
Halifax told Mrs S theyd been contacted by another bank who had detected suspicious 
activity on one of their accounts. Mrs S had paid money into that account in relation to 
making investments with a company Ill refer to as Q (this was separate payments to a 
separate company  not company P). Halifax told Mrs S they believed shed been the victim 
of an investment scam and that all of the funds shed sent to Q were sent to a scammer. 
Halifax told Mrs S they would attempt to get her funds back in relation to her payments to Q.
While talking to Mrs S they asked about her payments to P. They asked how shed found P 
and whether P could also be a scam. Mrs S was adamant that P was a genuine investment 
firm based on the checks shed done, their website and the bond certificates she received.
The next day Halifax called Mrs S again and let her know that the payments she made to P 
had actually gone to a personal account not connected to investments. They asked for her 
consent to raise a fraud claim relating to the payments to P, so they could try and recover 
those funds for her  which she agreed to.
Halifax say that during this second call they told Mrs S not to send any further money to P. 
And that it was highly likely P would contact her again and tell her that she needed to pay a 
release fee or tax payment to get her money back. But that it was a scam and not to send 
them any more money. Mrs S says she thought that the warnings Halifax were giving her 
related to company Q, not to company P.
In August 2019, P got in touch with Mrs S saying her bonds had matured and in order to get 
her funds back she had to pay in additional money  as her investment had to reach a 
certain threshold in order for her to withdraw her funds.
On 1 August 2019, Mrs S sent a payment to P for £1,500 and on 28 August 2019, she sent a 
further payment of £10,000. When Mrs S attempted to send a third payment of £6,000 the 
payment was blocked by Halifax. In total including her previous payments, Mrs S had sent P 
£42,850. 
When Mrs S didnt get her money back and realised that P was a scam, she asked Halifax to 
refund her.
Halifax investigated her fraud claim and offered to make a partial refund on some of the 
payments. For the payments made in August 2018 and January 2019  which totalled 
£31,350  Halifax was able to recover £3,109.41 from one of the receiving banks. But they 
declined to refund the balance of the funds, saying they didnt feel Mrs S had done sufficient 
research into P prior to investing. With regards to the two payments made in August 2019, 
these payments were covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code). 
Halifax was able to recover £36.66 from one of the receiving banks and offered to refund 
50% of the two payments made - saying they hadnt given Mrs S an effective warning. But 
they withheld the remaining 50% saying Mrs S hadnt done sufficient checks to meet her 
requisite level of care under the CRM code.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt the first payment 
Mrs S made of £5,000 in July 2018 shouldve flagged with Halifax as appearing suspicious, 
but wasnt persuaded that the scam wouldve been uncovered if Halifax had called Mrs S. As 
the checks Mrs S had done on the company convinced her it was a legitimate investment  
so they didnt feel the banks involvement wouldve prevented the payments. And with 
regards to the payments made in August 2019, they felt Halifax had acted fairly in refunding 
50% saying Mrs S was warned in January 2019 not to send any further funds to P  but sent 
funds anyway.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same answer as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. I understand that Mrs S will be disappointed, but Ill explain why.
Ive separated the transactions out into two time periods, as different rules and industry 
standards applied at the time.
The payments made before 28 May 2019  not covered by the CRM code
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So, Ive taken 
all of that into consideration when looking through this complaint.
I dont agree with the investigator that the first payment Mrs S made in July 2018 for £5,000, 
was particularly unusual or out of character looking at her previous account use. Mrs S had 
previously made payments for £3,840 and £4,000 from her account. So, Im not persuaded 
the first payment shouldve flagged with Halifax. But I think Halifax shouldve been 
concerned when she made the third payment for £10,000, and I wouldve expected Halifax 
to call Mrs S to discuss what the payment was for. So, Ive gone on to think about what is 
most likely to have happened if Halifax had got in touch with Mrs S at that point. 
I would expect a call to Mrs S to have included questions such as what the purpose of the 
payment was, which was investment. Id then expect Halifax to ask some further probing 
questions, which mightve included: how shed found the investment company  P, what 
research shed done on them, whether shed checked them on the FCAs website, and what 
return they were offering. 
Mrs S has told us that P was advertised heavily online including on an investment circulated 
email she received and also on a website that offers investment opportunities. She said she 
did several checks on P including checking the FCA website, which showed that P was a 
subsidiary of a large and well-known UK company. Also, that she checked Ps website and 
the documents they sent. Having looked at the information Mrs S had from P, I can see there 
is a genuine company in the name of P. Its registered with Companies House and the 
company registration number on the documentation Mrs S received matched the information 
for the genuine company. The documents included the genuine companys logo, contact 
information, details of their staff and all of the documentation was very professional in 
appearance. There were no obvious errors, poor spelling, misalignment etc. Also at the time 
that Mrs S made the third payment in August 2018, I cant see that there were any warnings 
about P being a cloned investment firm (a fraudulently set up company that mirrors a 
legitimate firm), a scam firm, or any negative reviews saying there were issues with P. There 
is an FCA warning to say the firm isnt regulated to offer investments  but this wasnt added 
until October 2019, after the scam had already been uncovered. 
So, I think its most likely that Mrs Ss responses to Halifaxs questions about the investment 
and level of checks she had done meant it was unlikely that Halifax wouldve uncovered that 
Mrs S was the victim of a scam. Therefore, I dont think that Halifax missed an opportunity to 
intervene and prevent these payments. On that basis, I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund Mrs S for the payments made prior to 
August 2019.
The payments made after 28 May 2019  which are covered by the CRM code.
On 28 May 2019, the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) came into force, so 
Ive considered the later payments taking that into account.
The first payment Mrs S made after the CRM code came into effect was on 1 August 2019 
and was for £1,500. She then made a second payment on 22 August 2019 for £10,000. The 
third payment of £6,000 was stopped and didnt leave her account.
Under the CRM Code we would expect Halifax to refund Mrs S in the case of a scam, unless 
one of the exceptions apply under the Code. The exception theyre saying applies in this 
case is:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
Halifax point to the conversation they had with Mrs S in January 2019, when they say they 
warned Mrs S that this was a scam. Halifax has been able to provide one of the calls they 
had with Mrs S, but not the second call which was the following day. However, they have 
provided the contact notes which they say set out what was discussed. 
 
Having listened to the first call with Mrs S, the contact notes seem accurate and match with 
what was discussed on that call. So, I think its more likely than not that the conversation on 
the second call is reasonably accurately captured in the contact note. 
The contact note says Bank X had been in contact with Halifax to say that Mrs Ss payments 
to P were also fraud, and that Mrs S agreed to pursue a fraud claim to try and recover her 
funds. It says Halifax told Mrs S that P would get back in touch and ask for more money  
but not to send them any more as she wouldnt get it back.
I also think its reasonable to rely on the second contact note, as it mirrors what was said to 
Mrs S in the first call when Halifax talked to her about the other investment company Q. 
Halifax was very clear in telling Mrs S that it was likely that Q would contact her again after 
they raised the fraud claim, telling her they would return her funds but ask for additional 
payments first for things like release fees or taxes. 
Having already told Mrs S this regarding the other investment scam, I think its most likely 
Halifax gave her the same advice regarding P in the second call. But regardless, Mrs S was 
aware in January 2019 that P wasnt a genuine investment firm as she agreed to a fraud 
claim being raised by Halifax. So, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing that 
she was making a payment to a legitimate business when she made the two further transfers 
in August 2019. 
Halifax refunded Mrs S 50% of those two payments under the CRM code, saying they didnt 
give an effective warning  which isnt unreasonable. And having considered everything, as 
Im not satisfied that Mrs S had a reasonable basis for believing the firm she was paying the 
funds to was legitimate, I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund her anything further in relation to 
these payments.The additional concerns Mrs S has raised
Mrs S has raised concerns that Halifax didnt identify that she was paying funds to 
scammers earlier on, saying they shouldve checked the accounts she was sending her 
payments to. But there wasnt an obligation on Halifax to check the recipient account name 
against Mrs Ss payee details. 
This is now done by some businesses under the Confirmation of Payee (COP) test, which 
checks the payee name against the account name and confirms whether there is a match. 
So, while I appreciate that Mrs S feels Halifax shouldve done more checks, I cant fairly say 
they shouldve as there wasnt an expectation for them to do so. 
Mrs S also asked why the CRM code wasnt applied to all the payments she made. The 
CRM code came into effective on 28 May 2019, and only applies to payments made from 
that date onwards. It isnt retrospectively applied to any payments made prior. So, I cant 
fairly apply the CRM code to all of Mrs Ss payments, when most of them were made prior to 
it coming into effect.
Could Halifax have recovered more funds for Mrs S?
Ive also thought about whether Halifax did what it shouldve in attempting to recover Mrs Ss 
money once they were aware of the scam. From what Ive seen they promptly contacted the 
receiving banks once they were aware of the scam and recovered the money that was 
available  which has been paid into Mrs Ss account. Unfortunately, most of the money had 
already been removed from the accounts by the scammers.
I realise that Mrs S will be disappointed and that shes lost a lot money. But in the 
circumstances, I cant fairly say that Halifax shouldve done more to prevent her losing this 
money. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Halifax to refund her more than they already 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman