DRN-3576328
The complaint
Mrs G complains about a fixed sum loan she took out with a finance provider, to pay for an 
educational course.
In November 2022, Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) 
became the legal owner of Mrs Gs loan. So for ease, Ive just referred to Asset Link 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In August 2016, Mrs G agreed to a fixed sum loan with Asset Link, to pay for an educational 
course. Mrs G had been given the option to study on a full or part time basis, by the course 
provider, who Ill call X. However, after some problems, X was only able to offer the part 
time option, but gave Mrs G a discount of £3,000 from the cost of the course.
However, Mrs G had already agreed to borrow the cost of studying full time from Asset Link. 
To try and help, Asset Link say they told Mrs G she could end her loan and start a new 
application. However, they also say Mrs G told them, shed rather not, just in case a full time 
space became available at a later date.
Around three years after Mrs G had started her course, X made arrangements with Asset 
Link to refund the £3,000 they had promised. And after some further discussions, X agreed 
to refund £799.61 to Mrs G, in light of the additional interest charged for the higher amount.
Mrs G complained to Asset Link in November 2020 and said they had given her a loan for 
the wrong amount. She said that Asset Link should recalculate her loan and refund more 
interest. 
In their final response, Asset Link said they had processed a loan which Mrs G had asked 
for. They also said Mrs G had already received a refund of interest from X. But Asset Link 
agreed that there had been a delay in replying to Mrs G and offered to pay her £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs G didnt accept Asset Links response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Gs case and found that Asset Link couldve done more to 
have helped restructure the loan account. She said Asset Link should recalculate the fixed 
sum loan using the correct amount and refund further interest to Mrs Gs loan account. The 
investigator also said Asset Link should increase their payment for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to £250.
Asset Link didnt accept the investigators conclusions. However, to settle the complaint, they 
agreed to refund £1,773.62 to the loan account and to pay Mrs G £250. The investigator put 
Asset Links offer to Mrs G, but she didnt agree. The investigator didnt change her findings, 
as Asset Links offer was in line with what she had recommended and now Mrs Gs case has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about a fixed sum loan Mrs G took out with Asset Link, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The loan amount
The fixed sum loan was provided to Mrs G to pay for an educational course. Under this type 
of loan agreement, Asset Link was obliged to send the funds directly to X. This means, 
Mrs G didnt handle the transfer herself and a type of relationship was created between all 
three parties.
The crux of Mrs Gs complaint is that Asset Link were aware shed paid too much for the 
course she was enrolled on, but didnt help her to get a refund from X, or to restructure the 
loan. Asset Link say they offered to restructure the loan, but kept things as they were, in 
case Mrs G was able to switch to a full time place.
Mrs G has also asked us to consider Asset Links response to her claim under section 75 of 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974. But, Mrs G hasnt complained about the quality of the 
course, or that she was given incorrect information about its content, which induced her into 
taking out the finance to pay for it. So, I dont think Asset Links response to that part of her 
complaint is unreasonable.
I can see from the emails between Mrs G and X, that it may have still been possible for 
Mrs G to switch to a full time space, after she had started the course. So, I agree that Asset 
Link tried to be flexible and keep options open for Mrs G, during the initial stages of her 
enrolment with X.
However, the notes from X also show that they made Asset Link aware in July 2017, that a 
refund of £3,000 was due. Mrs G also says she contacted Asset Link at this time to tell them 
about her concerns over the loan amount.
Asset Links records show that they replied to Mrs G and told her a part time place would 
mean her course would finish a year later than planned. So, the additional interest that would 
be added to her loan account would be £1,773.62.
Having considered everything, I think Asset Link had a responsibility to help Mrs G further, 
when they were told that a refund from X was due. I think the additional year of study meant 
that the loan term would increase and that Asset Link were aware that there had been 
confusion with the actual loan amount. 
So, I agree with the investigator, in that Asset Link didnt treat Mrs G fairly by not 
restructuring her loan in July 2017. Or, by looking to refund the interest Mrs G had been 
charged as a result of the overpayment. 
Mrs G says Asset Link should now write off the outstanding balance due to the fixed sum 
loan. But, I think Mrs G had enrolled onto the educational course and it seems she received 
the services from X. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say she shouldnt have to now 
pay for that.
To help decide what Asset Link should do to put things right, Ive considered the payments 
that have been made to Mrs G.The payments to Mrs G and her loan account
Asset Link have sent us the statements for Mrs Gs fixed sum loan. I can see that a payment 
of £3,000 credited the account on 14 February 2019. This was the payment from X, that was 
promised to Mrs G in 2016. I think this payment shows that X has now received the correct 
payment for the course, onto which had Mrs G enrolled.
Asset Links records also show Mrs G received a payment from X, for the interest charged 
on the £3,000 that they kept hold of until February 2019. I can see where Asset Link have 
explained that £779.61 was paid to Mrs G after she had complained directly to them. Overall, 
I think Mrs G has already received a refund of the interest charged on the amount, that was 
eventually refunded by X.
Ive also considered where the term of Mrs Gs fixed sum loan was extended by a year, to 
take account of the part time status of her course. Asset Link explained to Mrs G in July 
2017, that extending the term of the loan would mean an additional interest cost of 1,773.62. 
Asset Link have offered to refund that cost, meaning Mrs G would be responsible for the 
balance of the loan, as if it was due to proceed as she had always planned.
In all the circumstances, I think Asset Links offer is fair and reasonable because it reduces 
the balance of the loan, meaning she will pay less than she could have expected under the 
loan agreement. I can see that Asset Link sent an email to Mrs G earlier this year, to say 
they have made this payment directly to the fixed sum loan. So, I dont think Asset Link 
needs to take any further action regarding this part of Mrs Gs complaint.
There may still be an outstanding balance owed by Mrs G to Asset Link. If so, I remind Asset 
Link of their responsibility to treat Mrs Gs financial circumstances with due consideration 
and forbearance.
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs G began her course in 2016 and around ten months later, she told Asset Link that the 
loan amount was in excess of what she needed. The refund of £3,000 wasnt arranged 
between Asset Link and X until February 2019. 
Furthermore, although Mrs G has continued to make the repayments due under the fixed 
sum loan agreement, she wasnt given any reassurance that the additional interest due to be 
charged to the loan would be refunded. I think this happened at an already challenging time 
for Mrs G, when she was in the midst of her educational course.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Asset Link treated Mrs G fairly when she asked them 
for help in June 2017. Instead she had to pursue both Asset Link and X, for the refund of the 
course fees she had paid and the required changes to her loan account. So, I think Mrs G 
has experienced distress and inconvenience and I think its fair that Asset Link should pay 
her £250 in recognition of that.
Putting things right
For these reasons Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) 
should pay £250 to Mrs G for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Link Financial Outsourcing 
Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman