DRN-4503836
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by a leak from a shower. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. References to QIC include 
these agents.
Mr O and Mrs O were supported by a representative in bringing their compliant. References 
to Mr O and Mrs O include their representative.
What happened
In December 2022 there was a leak from the bathroom at their property, which came through 
the kitchen ceiling underneath. They contacted QIC at the beginning of January 2023 to 
report the damage and lodge a claim. QIC appointed a firm (T) to assess the damage and 
handle the claim. T visited the property a few days later and subsequently prepared a scope 
of works to repair the damage, affecting the bathroom, the kitchen and a bedroom.
In May 2023, Mr O and Mrs O engaged a plumber to fix the leak. The plumber said the leak 
was caused by overtightening of the drain cover screws, causing cracks in the drain cover 
that led to the leak. The leak had taken time to soak the ceiling and walls underneath the 
shower, so wasnt visible. 
Given what they were told by the plumber and what S said about the repair theyd carried 
out, Mr O and Mrs O complained to this Service. Theyd been affected financially by having 
to pay the policy excess to their current insurer and been without a working shower from 
February to May2023. They wanted QIC to reimburse the excess theyd paid to their current 
insurer and compensate them for the loss of use of their shower and the time, stress and 
anxiety from what had happened.
Unhappy at the cash settlement offered, Mr O and Mrs O complained to QIC. They didnt 
think the scope of works was satisfactory and didnt cover all the work needed to repair the 
damage. Theyd been left with a bathroom in poor condition and the kitchen ceiling had been 
removed because of the confirmed presence of asbestos, but not replaced. Removal had 
also damaged the recently fitted kitchen and paintwork. This left the kitchen in a dangerous 
condition, and they were concerned about any residual asbestos and the risk to their health. 
Their electrician told them the leak had damaged the electrics, which would need 
addressing. They were also unhappy at not being offered the option of a QIC contractor 
carry out the repair work, or a reason why not. 
QIC considered Mr O and Mrs Os complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response they 
referred to their assessment of the claim under the escape of water section of the policy and 
the scope of work that formed the basis of the cash settlement theyd offered and 
subsequently paid (£4,149.62 less the policy excess of £650). Theyd also paid for the 
removal of the kitchen ceiling and made further settlement of £253.87. A further £880.70 was 
available in respect of VAT (should that be payable by Mr O and Mrs O). They said they 
were satisfied the settlement offered was fair and the limit of liability under the policy.
Mr O and Mrs O then complained to this service. They didnt think the cash settlement 
offered by QIC was enough to enable them to repair  the damage. Their kitchen ceiling had 
been removed and tested positive for the presence of asbestos but hadnt been replaced. 
And in removing the ceiling, damage was caused to the kitchen and paintwork. They thought 
the policy gave policyholders the choice of either taking a cash settlement or having 
contractors appointed by QIC carry out the repair work. They werent given that choice or 
told why QIC wouldnt appoint their own contractor. And the quotes theyd obtained from 
plasterers about the cost of repairing the ceiling , as well as to repair the bathroom leak and 
damaged electrics werent considered by QIC.
Mr O and Mrs O said theyd been offered £3,753.49 as a cash settlement, but the total costs 
to them of the repair work totalled some £10,238  meaning they were substantially out of 
pocket. They wanted QIC to re-assess the claim and look at the costs theyd incurred and 
pay them the shortfall against the cash settlement offered. This would have been avoided 
had QIC appointed their own contractors to carry out the work.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. While he thought it reasonable for QIC to seek to 
settle the claim through a cash settlement, he didnt think the scope of works considered all 
costs when QIC calculated the cash settlement  for example reinstating the kitchen ceiling 
following its removal wasnt included in the scope of works. As Mr O and Mrs O knew the full 
outlay following the repairs to their property, the investigator thought QIC should consider 
the relevant costs and re-visit the settlement figure to ensure a fair and reasonable 
settlement to Mr O and Mrs O. QIC should also consider and costs in respect of damage 
allegedly caused by contractors. On the removal of asbestos, the investigator concluded it 
was completed safely and an independent firm provided the appropriate certificate recording 
health, safety and environmental standards were met during the removal.
Although QIC responded to accept the investigators conclusions, they didnt contact Mr O 
and Mrs O to action those conclusions. So, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Mr O and Mrs O have said about their circumstances, 
including the Mrs Os health conditions theyve told us about. I know this will be concerning 
for them and Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as is my role here, whether QIC have 
acted fairly towards Mr O and Mrs O.
The main element of Mr O and Mrs Os complaint is that the cash settlement offered by QIC 
doesnt cover all the work needed to repair the damage from the leak, nor cover the costs 
they have incurred (or likely to incur) from the estimates and quotes provided by the various 
suppliers and contractors theyve approached. QIC say their settlement offer is based on a 
scope of work and is fair.
A further issue is QIC offering a cash settlement, rather than offering to appoint a 
contractor(s) to carry out the repair work. Mr O and Mrs O say they should have been given 
the option of a QIC-appointed contractor carrying out the work. But they werent given that 
option, nor an explanation of why not.
Taking the second issue first, QIC offering a cash settlement, rather than appointing their 
own contractor to carry out the repair work, looking at the policy terms and conditions 
document, theres a section headed Settling claims under buildings covers which states:1. How much we will pay
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
a. We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to 
carry out the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
b. We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us 
through our preferred contractor.
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (As defined by us) through 
our preferred contractor, we will pay you:
a. Fair and reasonable costs to have the work carried out by your chosen 
supplier; or
b. The amount by which the buildings have gone down in value as a result of the 
damage; 
whichever is lower.
What this means is that its QICs decision about how to settle a claim, whether by using 
their own contractors, pay a cash settlement, or the pay the costs of a policyholder using 
their own supplier. So, in this case, QIC chose to offer a cash settlement, which is their 
decision under the above policy terms. As theyve followed the policy terms in exercising 
their choice of how to settle the claim, I cant say thats unreasonable. 
Its also the case that in offering a cash settlement, the policy terms provide for this to be at 
the rates (the cost) QIC would get from their preferred supplier. Which, given the discounts 
insurers are able to negotiate with their preferred suppliers, are likely to be lower than those 
an individual policyholder can obtain through quotes from suppliers and contractors they 
approach directly.
QIC have said their decision to settle the claim through a cash settlement was made 
following the surveyor visit, who in discussion with Mr O and Mrs O concluded their 
expectation of the repair work included repairs that the surveyor didnt think should be 
covered under the claim. So, the decision was made to offer a cash settlement based on the 
scope of works. Given the decision is for QIC to make per the policy terms and conditions, I 
dont think this is unreasonable.
While Ive reached this conclusion, I can consider whether the cash settlement offered is fair 
and reasonable, based on a scope of work that fairly covers the repairs and reinstatement 
needed to fix the damage resulting from an incident (the leak in this case).
Looking at the cash settlement, I can see its based on a scope of works prepared following 
the inspection visit by QICs surveyor (E). Looking at it, while QIC have made a settlement 
for the removal of the kitchen ceiling (due to the presence of asbestos, I cant see it includes 
the replacement of the kitchen ceiling following its removal (which happened after the 
surveyors visit). If QIC are prepared to cover the cost of the ceilings removal, then its 
reasonable that they should include an element in the cash settlement for its reinstatement.
In their response to our investigators view (in which they accepted the findings) QIC say 
theyve updated the scope of works to include reinstatement of the whole kitchen ceiling and 
that they will pay Mr O and Mrs O the extra costs. I think this is reasonable.Mr O and Mrs O have also provided us with receipts for items as part of the repair work. It 
isnt my role to assess these costs and decide whether theyre reasonable  that is the 
responsibility of QIC, per the above policy terms and conditions (paying fair and reasonable 
costs). While QIC have made a cash settlement offer, I think it reasonable to ask them to 
assess the full schedule of costs from Mr O and Mrs O (on the assumption they will provide 
this to QIC) and decide whether to adjust their cash settlement offer and/or to reimburse any 
of these costs.
Another aspect of the complaint concerns the presence of asbestos in the kitchen ceiling, 
leading to the need for its removal. Given the risks associated with asbestos, I think it 
reasonable that the ceiling was inspected and assessed for the presence of asbestos and -it 
being confirmed it was present  I think it reasonable to remove it, thereby removing the 
hazard. Ive see the certificate from the specialist contractor confirming removal of the ceiling 
and that the area has been cleaned and is visually free of dust or debris in accordance with 
HSE guidelines. As a professional asbestos removal contractor, I think its reasonable to 
take assurance from the certificate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr O and Mrs Os complaint. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Revise their cash settlement offer to reflect the updated scope of works (to 
include reinstatement of the kitchen ceiling).
Assess the full schedule of costs from Mr O and Mrs O (on the assumption they 
will provide this to QIC) and decide whether to adjust their cash settlement offer 
and/or to reimburse any of these costs.
QIC Europe Ltd should also add interest to any increase in their cash settlement they 
determine, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date of the original cash settlement they made to 
Mr O and Mrs O to the date QIC pay any additional cash settlement (assuming Mr O and 
Mrs O accept my final decision).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman