DRN-3710956
The complaint
Mr C complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined 
a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy and caused delays in providing an 
answer.
What happened
In 2022, Mr C made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to pursue action 
against his employers for discrimination. But DAS declined it on the basis that the series of 
events which gave rise to the claim started before the policy was taken out. 
Mr C was unhappy with this decision and the time it took to receive it, so he raised a 
complaint which he brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold it. She was 
satisfied DAS decision was in line with the policys terms and fair in the circumstances of the 
case.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs legal expenses insurance policy say:
We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and expenses for the 
insured incidents in this section as long asthe date of occurrence of the insured 
incident is during the insurance period.
The policy defines the date of occurrence as:
For civil cases, the date of occurrence is the date of the event that leads to a claim. 
If there is more than one event arising at different times from the same originating 
cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first of these events. (This is the date 
the event happened, which may be before the date you first became aware of it.)
The policy has the following exclusion:
What we dont coverany incident or matter arising before the start of this section of 
cover.
Like all insurance policies, legal expenses insurance is meant to cover uncertain risks  not 
inevitable or existing events. So its not uncommon  nor unreasonable  for these policies 
to exclude claims for events that had already occurred or that the policyholder was likely to 
have known would occur before the policy was taken out. This is to prevent policyholders 
from taking out insurance cover specifically to make a claim for a known imminent dispute.
As Mr C took out his legal expenses insurance policy on 6 December 2019, I need to be 
satisfied that he wasnt aware of the events leading to his claim prior to this date. That 
doesnt mean whether he knew he had a claim, but rather that he was aware of the events 
that led to his claim.
Mr Cs employment claim raises a series of incidents and ongoing behaviour where he feels 
his employer has discriminated against him. So to determine when the date of occurrence is, 
Ive considered when the first of these events took place. In the information provided, not all 
incidents complained of are dated. But the first dated incident within the grievance document 
is 19 November 2019.
I can see that DAS asked Mr C whether he held a policy prior to this one but I cant see that 
it received an answer. DAS also made enquiries with the company who arranged Mr Cs 
insurance, but they couldnt locate an earlier policy.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr C didnt have legal expenses insurance cover in place at the 
time the series of events that led to his claim started. He took out his policy a few weeks 
later, after at least one incident of alleged discrimination had already occurred. So whilst I 
have great sympathy for Mr Cs circumstances, I dont think its incorrect or unfair that DAS 
declined to cover his claim. For clarity, this doesnt mean he cant pursue his legal case  it 
just means that his policy isnt going to cover the legal costs of doing so.
Mr C also complains about the time it took to get an answer on his claim. I appreciate there 
are other companies involved who may have caused delays, and were looking into those 
complaints separately. In this decision, Im only looking at the actions of DAS and I can see 
that it received Mr Cs claim on 10 May 2022 and provided its decision on 17 May 2022. As 
this was within five working days, Im not persuaded there were any unreasonable delays 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman