DRN-1984501
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA trading as Coverwise (Coverwise) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably by failing to pay her claim under a travel insurance policy in full. 
She wants the claim paid.
What happened
Mrs P had an annual travel insurance policy with Coverwise issued in late February 2019 but 
starting from March 2019. She went abroad on holiday in September 2019 and became ill, 
leading to a hospital admission. It was believed that Mrs P had a kidney infection, an 
abscess on the kidney, and sepsis.  Mrs P missed her flight home and her husband needed 
accommodation to stay with her. Coverwise refused to pay Mrs Ps claim in full as it 
considered her medical records and said it would only pay 12.8% of any claim as it felt Mrs P 
hadnt declared her full medical history. Mrs Ps son paid for her flight home as she said 
Coverwise wouldnt arrange her return until it knew whether she was covered by the policy.
Mrs P said that the medical records were old and assumptions had been made by 
Coverwise about what medications she was taking regularly. Mrs P thought Coverwise had 
assumed she had arthritis due to the medication she did take, but no such diagnosis was in 
her records. Mrs P said shed answered the questions asked when she took out the policy.
She complained to Coverwise. It said it was a condition of the policy that all pre-existing 
medical conditions were declared, and Mrs P hadnt done this. This meant that she had only 
paid 12.08% of the correct premium as she hadnt declared her asthma, osteoarthritis, 
depression, insomnia and water retention.
Mrs P complained to us. The investigators view was that the claim shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that Mrs P hadnt disclosed her pre-existing medical conditions fully when she took out 
the policy.  He noted that she only disclosed medication for back pain, but not for her other 
conditions  the investigator said that the questions asked were clear. The investigator said 
as Mrs P wouldve still been able to get a policy, but as she had only paid 12.8% of the 
correct premium, it was fair and reasonable for Coverwise to only pay 12.8% of the claim.
Mrs P disagreed. She said that her asthma was mild (though she accepted she did take 
medication for it) and she only found out she had osteoarthritis in June 2019 (before she 
went on the trip). Mrs P accepted that she was on medication for depression and water 
retention, and took sleeping pills. She pointed out that the issue of the flight home was 
unresolved and her husbands claim was ignored as he had his own insurance. 
The investigator said Mrs P shouldve declared the conditions and it was reasonable for an 
insurer to rely on the medical records provided by a GP. Mrs P added that she wasnt 
admitted to hospital for anything connected to her pre-existing medical conditions. The 
investigator added that having reviewed the evidence, he didnt think Coverwise had been 
asked to arrange Mrs Ps flight home as her son had been told it couldnt confirm it would 
pay for it until the issue of whether Mrs P was covered had been resolved. He said that 
Mrs Ps son had been happy to arrange the flight himself and noted accommodation had 
been arranged by Coverwise. Mrs P said her son was told it would take ten days to arrange 
a flight home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Coverwise, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Coverwise has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
In relation to the flight, Im not persuaded that Coverwise acted unfairly or unreasonably. It 
wasnt until 10 September that Mrs P was fit to fly, and it takes time to arrange a flight. Ive 
seen the notes written at the time by Coverwise, which are detailed and I place weight on 
them as they were written at the time and before a complaint was made. Mrs Ps son was 
told on the 10th that Coverwise was coming to the end of the process of seeing if Mrs P was 
covered by the policy, and it would then arrange the flight. It confirmed that if Mrs Ps son 
wanted to arrange the flight now, as no special arrangements needed to be made, he could 
and it would be repaid in line with the decision about the cover (so if Mrs P was fully 
covered, the flight would be fully covered). Coverwise had already arranged for 
accommodation in the meantime; Mrs Ps son chose to arrange the flight home for the 11th. 
Theres no record of Mrs Ps son being told hed have to wait ten days, and Mrs Ps son 
hasnt given evidence to this service.
Turning to the point about Mrs Ps husband, if he had his own insurance, it wasnt unfair for 
Coverwise to point this out. But I note that it paid for his accommodation on the basis that if 
the claim wasnt covered, it would have to be repaid, and this was explained.
The core of this complaint is whether the policy shouldve covered all of Mrs Ps claim. It 
doesnt matter if the reason she was in hospital while on holiday was unrelated to her pre-
existing medical conditions; the key point is whether the terms and conditions of the policy 
covered Mrs P, and if the decision reached by Coverwise is fair and reasonable.
Having looked at the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that Mrs P didnt declare 
asthma, osteoarthritis, depression, or water retention but these conditions shouldve been 
declared as Mrs P was receiving treatment. Mrs P was prescribed sleeping pills for pain 
management according to her GP, so I can understand why insomnia wasnt declared. She 
said she didnt suffer depression when asked before taking out the policy, but the evidence 
shows that she was prescribed medication for the conditions I set out above.
The policy said You must tell us of all your pre-existing medical conditions. Failure to do so 
will be treated as a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation by you, even if a claim is not 
related to an undisclosed pre-existing medical condition. If you do not comply with these 
conditions we may cancel the policy with no refund of premium, or refuse to deal with your 
claim or reduce the amount of any claim payment". 
The policy defines a pre-existing medical condition as:
Any medical condition which falls into any of the following categories which you have, or 
have had for which you have ever received treatment (including surgery, tests or 
investigations by your doctor or a consultant/specialist and prescribed drugs or medication):
 Cardiovascular condition (any condition relating to the heart, arteries, veins or blood 
pressure) Respiratory condition (relating to the lungs or breathing)
 Stroke
 Cancer
 Crohns disease
 Epilepsy
 High cholesterol
 Diabetes
ii) Any medical condition for which you have taken or been prescribed medication or for 
which you have received, or are waiting to receive, treatment (including surgery, tests or 
investigations) within the last 12 months.
Mrs P didnt declare her medical conditions fully as required by the clear questions she was 
asked or under the terms and conditions of the policy. Its fair and reasonable for Coverwise 
to rely on her medical records in order to make a decision, but the failure to declare all the 
pre-existing medical conditions has consequences for her claim.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. In Mrs Ps case, having seen 
the retro screening, Im satisfied that she only paid 12.08% of the correct premium; she 
shouldve answered the questions about her health more fully to pay the correct premium.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Coverwise to rely on it to only pay 12.08% of Mrs Ps claim, including the cost of the 
flight if receipts are produced, produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
This does mean Mrs P will have to repay part of the accommodation costs to Coverwise and 
is responsible for the balance of her medical costs.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 7 
December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman