DRN-2544434
The complaint
This is a complaint that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold Mrs and Mr C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which covered a mortgage. The PPI 
Ive looked at started in 1996, according to Aviva. The mortgage itself started several years 
earlier. 
The company that sold the PPI in 1996 wasnt called Aviva. But Aviva is now responsible for 
the sale, and so Ill write as though Aviva was the seller. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. These are my reasons.
The sale of the PPI took place very many years ago and, not surprisingly, some of the 
original documents from the time are not now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
The documentary evidence is very unclear. For example:
Aviva says it only has definite records of PPI starting in 1996. It has a computer note 
talking about a claim Mr C made on an earlier policy, though it doesnt say who 
provided that PPI. Aviva has sent a copy of a PPI application form dated 1996, and 
records of premiums paid from then. Mrs and Mr C have confirmed that the signature 
on the form is that of Mr C, but they say the writing on the form isnt his and theyve 
never seen the form before. 
Mrs and Mr C say they believe they took out PPI in 1984 and the PPI continued 
along with the mortgage with no further sale of PPI in 1996. 
There are other queries Mrs and Mr C have raised about the documents, and what 
Aviva is saying about what happened when. 
Looking at the documents Mrs and Mr C have sent us, Mrs and Mr C also had life insurance 
at some point. Lenders normally required borrowers to take out life insurance to cover an 
endowment mortgage. (Mrs and Mr C have said they had an endowment mortgage.) Life 
insurance covers you if you die and normally pays out a large sum to cover your remaining 
mortgage. But PPI covers you month by month, if you are unable to work for a while due to 
sickness or redundancy. 
I can see its possible, though by no means certain, that memories about being sold life 
insurance might have got mixed with the sale of the PPI. It also generally wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember the detail of events from so long ago  1996 was 25 
years ago, and 1984 (when Mrs and Mr C say they were sold the PPI) was 37 years ago. 
 
I have to decide cases on the balance of probabilities  that is to say, what is the most 
likely thing to have happened. I think the evidence shows that it was most likely a PPI policy 
did start in 1996 (whether or not there had been one in previous years). And I think its likely, 
given Mr Cs signature, that the PPI was discussed at the time and agreed to. 
But, even without that evidence, I still wouldnt have upheld the complaint. This is because I 
would need reasonable supporting evidence to show that Aviva did something wrong in 1996 
(or for any other date when PPI might have been sold to Mrs and Mr C). As a general 
principle of fairness, where someone has said another person (or organisation) has done 
something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it 
was such a long time ago. I dont have that evidence and, as Ive said, I dont know how 
much I can rely on what Mrs and Mr C now remember, given how many years ago this was. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was started without Aviva telling 
Mrs and Mr Cs it was optional, or that it was added without their proper consent. 
Ive thought about other possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold but, 
again, Ive not found evidence of this. Ill explain why.
I dont think Aviva recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr C, in the sense of it telling them it 
had assessed their situation and were saying the PPI particularly suited to their individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It would have 
been for Mrs and Mr C to decide whether it was suitable and worth the cost.
But, even if Aviva had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr C (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when Mrs and Mr C would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mrs and Mr C in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due 
to Mr Cs suffering long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mrs and Mr C would have understood 
how much it would cost. 
Mr C wouldnt have been covered if he needed to claim as a result of his medical condition. 
But this was made clear on the application form, so Mrs and Mr C would have known what 
they were taking on. And Mr C would still be covered for other medical conditions and for 
unemployment. So, although I cant know how full the information was about the PPI, I dont think its likely 
that fuller information would have changed whether Mrs and Mr C took the PPI. 
Overall, Ive not found strong evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman