DRN-3348533
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill call M, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold a fixed rate 
business loan to the partners. The partners also complain that the enterprise was in fact a 
sole trader business and the bank had insisted on the partnership being formed to take out 
the loan.
What happened
M ran an agricultural business. In October 2015, M took out a £500,000 business loan over a 
20-year term with the interest rate fixed for the first 16 years. Alongside this, M took out 
another loan for £1m on a variable rate.
There were repayment difficulties and in 2019 the fixed rate loan was terminated. Lloyds 
charged a break cost of almost £58,000 which was added to Ms debt.
In 2020, M complained to Lloyds about the sale of the fixed rate loan, making these points:
- Only one partner, Mr W, was given any information about the terms of the loan, 
including the break costs. The bank didnt show a duty of care to the other partners.
The age of the partners, two of whom were in their seventies at the time, meant the 
loan was mis-sold.
Lloyds didnt give M enough information about break costs when it took out the fixed 
rate loan.
M also complained that the lending should have been made to Mr W as a sole trader, rather 
than to the partnership. M said it was required by Lloyds to form the partnership. 
The bank didnt uphold Ms complaint. Unhappy with the banks response, the partners 
referred their complaint to this service.
Having considered the evidence and arguments, our investigator thought the bank didnt 
need to do anything further. She gave the following reasons, in summary:
In accordance with a mandate signed by all the partners, Mr W was authorised to 
arrange the loans on their behalf. The investigator therefore thought it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to have supplied information to Mr W without giving it 
separately to the other partners.
Based on the available evidence, the investigator was satisfied that during the sale of 
the loans, M worked with an adviser who provided specialised accountancy for the 
agricultural sector. The adviser wrote to M suggesting a combination of variable and 
fixed rate lending  including a suggestion for a 16-year fix. The quotes given by the 
bank were based on the options outlined by the adviser. The investigator didnt think 
the bank gave any advice or recommendation on the loan. The bank gave M relevant 
information about other available lending products.
Before the sale, Lloyds provided M with a fixed rate loan product profile, which 
included information about break costs, and tailored illustrations indicating how much 
the break costs could be. The illustration showed that for early repayment in 2019 the 
break cost could be up to £79,160. The actual break cost charged in 2019 wasnt in 
excess of this. The investigator concluded that Lloyds had given M enough 
information about the potential size of the break costs for early repayment. 
Lloyds didnt make the fixed rate a condition of lending.
The investigator understood that M was a family business, and although there was 
no succession plan in place, it was the partnerships intention to sell or rent the farm 
after Mr Ws retirement. Mr W would have been in his mid-60s when the fixed rate 
expired. The relationship managers notes stated the partnership was considering 
changing its structure to an LLP and bringing on new partners on its accountants 
advice. The investigator acknowledged the age of the other partners, but she hadnt 
seen any information from the time of the loan sale that indicated it was the intention 
to sell the business during the fixed rate period. Furthermore, she thought it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to offer the lending on the basis it knew the partnership had 
been provided with independent specialist advice about the suitability of the loan. M 
was also given advice by its accountants about the long-term plans for the 
partnership.
M said the partners were caused distress when the bank issued the formal demand 
for repayment. But as the investigator found that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in the 
sale the fixed rate loan, she didnt think she could recommend compensation for 
distress or upset that may have been caused when Ms repayments ran into 
difficulties.
The investigator thought the Financial Ombudsman Service shouldnt consider the 
part of Ms complaint about the formation of the partnership. To investigate and reach 
an outcome about this matter would require us to consider the impact, liabilities and 
responsibilities for each of the individual partners  in other words, to treat each 
partner separately. For this reason, the investigator thought it would be more suitable 
for this part of Ms complaint to be dealt with in court.
M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. On behalf of the partners, their 
representative submitted a number of arguments about the formation of the partnership, 
accompanied by recent emails from their accountant giving his recollections about the same 
matter. The representative also reiterated that M believed that all the partners should have 
been given face-to-face advice about the loan and their liabilities, and that two of them 
should not have been parties to the loan because of their age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell the partners that Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
The formation of the partnership
I agree with the investigator that we shouldnt consider the part of Ms complaint that is about 
the formation of the partnership.The partnership mandate was signed by all the partners. To consider the question of 
whether they were truly acting as partners, and whether they had all freely chosen to do so, 
would involve me investigating the relationships between the individuals involved, rather 
than considering the banks actions or omissions. It could also require me to reach 
conclusions about the partners obligations to each other, which I have no power to do. 
Furthermore, the complaint was brought to us by the partnership as an enterprise, rather 
than by the partners as individuals  and its unlikely that the partners individually would be 
eligible complainants to this service. In my view, these and other factors mean that this 
matter would be better dealt with by a court. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service operates under rules in the Financial Conduct Authority 
handbook known as the DISP rules. The DISP rules say we can dismiss a complaint if 
investigating it would seriously impair the effective operation of our service, which may 
include cases in which it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a court. 
In line with our rules, I therefore conclude that we shouldnt look at the complaint about the 
formation of the partnership and I make no findings on this particular matter. For the same 
reason, I havent considered any further arguments or evidence submitted by Ms 
representative about this matter.
The fixed rate loan
Im satisfied that there was a mandate, signed by all the partners, which gave Mr W authority 
to negotiate and sign the loan agreement on behalf of the partnership. In my view, Lloyds 
was therefore not required to supply information or advice separately to the other partners.
Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation to M about the sale 
of the loan. Ive looked at the information provided by the bank and I agree with the 
investigator that the explanations and illustrations were sufficient to alert M to the risk of 
incurring break costs for early exit from the fixed rate, and to the potential scale of those 
costs. In my view, M was given enough information to make an informed choice about 
whether to enter the fixed rate loan agreement. I note that M also took out a variable rate 
loan at the same time, so that only a third of the borrowing was subject to a fixed rate, which 
would have given the partners flexibility to repay part of the debt early without any break 
costs.
M was assisted by a specialist accountant and received advice on the lending and on the 
structure of the business. Options for the future of the business had been discussed, 
including plans going beyond Mr Ws retirement. There was no indication that the partners 
had any intention to pay off the lending before the expiry of the fixed rate. In the 
circumstances, given that the loan was sold on a non-advised basis, I think it was 
reasonable for the bank to have regarded Ms future business planning, and its choice of 
borrowing structure, as a matter for the partners to determine with the assistance of their 
adviser. For these reasons, I dont think the age of two of the partners made it unreasonable 
for the bank to sell the fixed rate loan to M.
Ms representative said the partners wouldnt have freely chosen a fixed rate in 2015 
because Mr W had recently received redress for the mis-sale of a previous fixed rate loan 
from another bank. But I note that Lloyds was offering a range of loan options and wasnt 
insisting on a fixed rate. Ive already said that I believe Lloyds gave M enough information 
about the risks involved in fixed rate borrowing. To that information I must add the further 
knowledge and understanding that Mr W would have gained as a result of successfully 
pursuing a complaint about the mis-selling of a previous fixed rate loan. In other words, his 
successful complaint against the other bank had been about the same subject matter. Possessing this knowledge, M was in my view well-placed in 2015 to make an informed and 
free choice about its borrowing from Lloyds.
For the above reasons, I conclude that Lloyds didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it sold 
the fixed rate loan to M in 2015.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms complaint about the fixed rate loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman