DRN-4185500
The complaint
Mr U complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him twice when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information from Loans 2 Go here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Opened Borrowed Monthly 
repayment & termClosed
1 15 July 2020 £400 £91.42 x 18 months Withdrawn  paid up 
and closed 31 July 
2020
2 8 September 
2020£400 £91.42 x 18 months Withdrawn but then 
repaid later
Closed 14 April 2021 
as an early settlement
The account for loan 2 was defaulted in December 2020 after being withdrawn but then not 
paid back within the prescribed period. 
Mr U complained to Loans 2 Go in February 2023. Mr Us complaint email included 
You should never have allowed me to open an account. When I applied in 
September 2020, you should have checked my credit record and would have seen 
that my credit score was very low, I had taken out a total of 50 payday loans in the 
previous year alone, had debt accounts still active and defaulting and that I was living 
loan to loan, month by month. This should have alerted you that I may be in financial 
difficulties at that time and may struggle to pay back the debts with added interest.
Mr U also mentioned in that February 2023 letter that he had suffered mental illness and had 
experienced a bereavement. 
Mr U outlined that at the time his income was around £1,554 after tax each month. 
My rent, household bills and transport costs came to about £1150. My food and 
clothing were about £375 a month. My minimum payment to you was £91 a month 
which I could not afford.
Loans 2 Go issued to Mr U a final response letter (FRL) in February 2023 in which it did not 
uphold Mr Us complaint. But as a goodwill offer it said it would pay him £150. Then the 
follow-up email to Mr U dated 10 March 2023 gave even more details as to why it considered 
it had done all the appropriate checks at the time of lending. It did not uphold Mr Us 
complaint but did increase the goodwill offer to £250.
Mr U has explained that he is keener for the default to be removed from his credit file than 
any other sort of recompense.
In relation to Mr Us mental illness, Loans 2 Go were unaware of that at the time the loan 
approvals were made and has sent account notes to illustrate that fact.
As for the bereavement, Loans 2 Go was aware of that in December 2020 and no earlier. 
Mr U had informed Loans 2 Go that he had just sold the late persons home after that person 
had died the year before and so that would have been December 2019. 
After Mr U had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service one of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint together with the documents sent in by both parties. 
Our adjudicator considered that Loans 2 Go had carried out appropriate checks and that the 
multiple payday loans and the financial difficulties Mr U had outlined in his explanations to us 
was not what Loans 2 Go saw from its own credit searches. And our adjudicator explained 
that it would not be usual for a lender to ask for and review copy bank account statements 
for each of these loans Mr U had applied for. So, our adjudicator did not uphold the 
complaint.  
Mr Us response was that none of the additional information hed provided had been 
addressed. By which Mr U meant the vulnerabilities, the mental health, and his 
bereavement. 
Our adjudicator wrote again with his second view in which he went into further detail. He said 
that there was no evidence that Loans 2 Go was aware of Mr Us state of mind when he 
applied for the loans. And the payday loans Mr U had mentioned in his complaint did not 
show up in the credit search Loans 2 Go had carried out and it cant be criticised for that. 
And its not required for lenders to check bank statements before lending in circumstances 
about which it was ware for Mr U. 
Our adjudicators second view was that he did not uphold Mr Us complaint.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr U  would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr U  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr U and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Us ability to make the repayments under these two 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr U. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr U undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr U. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Us complaint. Ive decided not to uphold his complaint and 
I explain here. 
It would not be reasonable for me to conclude that Loans 2 Go ought to have realised about 
Mr Us mental health issues when he applied for the loans unless hed told them about it. 
And Ive seen no evidence of that. I accept what Loans 2 Go has explained which is that 
Mr U mentioned this sadness in his life after the second loan was in the process of being 
repaid. Im being asked to review the two lending decisions in July 2020 and 
September 2020. So, informing Loans 2 Go in December 2020, as sad as it may have been, 
post-dated those lending decisions and so, I say no more about it.
Mr U has told us that he was in financial distress and had multiple and outstanding payday 
loans and essentially was in financial difficulties at the time he applied for the loans. But I am 
sorry to say that the evidence I have seen from both parties does not bear that out. 
For loan 1, Mr U approached Loans 2 Go for a modest sum of £400 using an on-line 
application. He gave details about his income (£2,020 after tax) for full time employment and 
his outgoings as being £200 a month. Loans 2 Go did some research and increased what it 
considered to have been a more realistic outgoings figure to around £692 each month. 
Loans 2 Go appears to have concluded  with these figures  that Mr U was able to afford 
the £91 a month. Loans 2 Go was entitled to rely on what Mr U had told them for a first loan. 
It was early in the lending relationship. 
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and I have reviewed the results for it. There was 
nothing in that set of results which likely would have caused Loans 2 Go to consider that 
Mr U was overindebted or was not able to afford the £91 a month. So it was not likely that 
Loans 2 Go would have been prompted to think further checks were warranted. 
Mr U has described to us on his complaint form that after hed received the loan he 
panicked when he saw the term length was 18 months and said to Loans 2 Go he could not 
afford the loan. He withdrew from the credit agreement and I have seen the correspondence 
between Mr U and Loans 2 Go which commenced just three days after the loan was 
approved. That loan was effectively treated as withdrawn and Mr U paid the money back plus a relatively modest amount of interest  around £36. The account notes show that Mr U 
had explained to Loans 2 Go hed only wanted a three month loan and the Loans 2 Go 
representative had explained to him how withdrawals worked. 
From that I am aware that Mr U was thoroughly familiar with the loan, the term length, and 
the interest due, and from that logic tells me that Mr U would have been equally familiar 
when he returned for the second loan application a few weeks later. It was for exactly the 
same - £400 over 18 months at around £91 a month. Mr U was also aware of the consumer 
protection provisions relating to withdrawals. 
There was no correspondence on the account notes to show that Mr U had mentioned 
anything to do with his mental health or his bereavement which I think had happened in 
December 2019  although that has not been confirmed by Mr U. 
The records would have shown loan 1 as a successfully repaid loan and repaid early which 
can, for credit worthiness assessments, be a positive indicator. 
Mr U says that Loans 2 Go would have known of his troubles  financial and personal  
when he applied for loan 2 a few weeks later. But as I have already outlined, I checked the 
information I had in relation to loan 1  before he applied for loan 2  and there is no mention 
of any of that. 
Mr U has suggested that the checks Loans 2 Go did for loan 2 ought to have shown that he 
was in financial difficulties. But Mr U declared an income of around £1,750 each month after 
tax plus for full time employment and outgoings of around £750 a month. 
The credit search Loans 2 Go carried out showed that if anything it was better than the 
previous one. Mr U had a total outstanding debt of £1,017 and had opened only two 
accounts in the previous 12 months. 
Loans 2 Go did increase Mr Us outgoings figure to take account of its credit search and it 
used statistical information to increase it to £1,060. So, the loan would have looked 
affordable. 
Mr U has explained that he had taken another high cost loan with another lender but it 
seems that may have been around the same time as he took the Loans 2 Go loan and so its 
not likely that would have shown up on any credit search done in September 2020. And I say 
that because records often take 60 days to show on a credit file. Added to which different 
lenders can report to different credit reference agencies and so not all that Mr U says he had 
may have shown on the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out. 
The second loan was for a modest sum again and I do consider that Mr U knew what he was 
getting into as the account notes show he emailed Loans 2 Go soon after taking the loan 
and asked for it to be treated as withdrawn in the same way Loans 2 Go had treated loan 1.
Mr U has said that if Loans 2 Go had looked at his bank statements then it would have 
appreciated what a state of financial distress he was in. 
Firstly, Id consider that for Loans 2 Go to review a set of bank statements for a second loan 
of £400 would be disproportionate. Id not have expected Loans 2 Go to do that. 
Secondly, as Mr U has sent to us some bank account statements for the period May 2020 to 
31 March 2021 then I have reviewed them. And I have done this not because I think that 
Loans 2 Go ought to have done this, but to satisfy myself about Mr Us explanations of his 
finances. 
They do not show signs of financial difficulties. And I can see that in the lead up to applying 
for loan 2 Mr U had obtained a credit facility with a well-known lender which acted as a 
facility he could draw on when he needed it. And he had obtained credit from another high 
cost lender in between obtaining loan 1 and applying for loan 2. But  as I have already 
explained, these may not have appeared on the Loans 2 Go credit searches for several 
reasons. And I would not have expected Loans 2 Go to have looked at Mr Us bank statements. But even if it had reviewed them I doubt it would have made much of a 
difference to its lending decision.    
The details surrounding the application of the default to the loan 2 account were set out in 
the FRL and in summary, after not being able to repay the arranged sums, then a default 
notice was issued and correctly applied. I have reviewed those details and I agree. 
And as I do not consider that Loans 2 Go has lent to Mr U irresponsibly and therefore has 
not done anything wrong, I am not going to direct that the default is removed as theres no 
justification for it. 
I do not uphold Mr Us complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman