DRN-3277814
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy because Barclays Bank UK PLC did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
Background
Mr E has explained that he was cold called by an individual posing as an account manager 
of an investment trading company. Unbeknownst to Mr E at the time, this account manager 
was in fact a fraudster.
Mr E was offered an opportunity to trade in a number of commodities, including oil and 
cryptocurrency and was provided brochures about the trading firm. Mr E says he researched 
the trading firm online to assure himself that this was a genuine company, but was unaware 
that the fraudster had cloned the details of a legitimate business as part of the scam. 
The fraudster told Mr E he could offer a total credit refund (TCR) meaning that Mr Es 
investments would be protected by an insurance for the first few months of trading. If Mr Es 
investments were to make a loss, the fraudster said the insurance would cover it, but that if 
Mr E continued trading until the TCR expired, hed also be entitled to any profits made. Mr E 
was told to expect a return of around 8% on his investment. On this basis he made the 
following transfers to the fraudster, totalling £100,000:
date value method
18/11/2016 £5,000 Mobile banking 
18/11/2016 £5,000 Mobile banking 
28/11/2016 £10,000 Telephone banking
28/11/2016 £30,000 Mobile banking
30/11/2016 £25,000 Mobile banking
01/12/2016 £25,000 Mobile banking
Mr E has explained he was on friendly terms with the fraudster at the time, that the fraudster 
spoke to him daily and shared personal things about his life, making Mr E believe he could 
trust him. Mr E was also shown what he believed was his account on screen, so he could 
see what trades were being completed daily and how they were performing. 
Mr E was therefore confident in the service he was receiving. However, he was told that by 
December 2016 he would begin receiving monthly profits into his account and this never 
happened, with various excuses provided by the fraudster for the delays. In January 2017 he 
attempted to visit the companys trading office and was told the company didnt work there. 
He also spoke to who he had been told was the company director, who told Mr E he had 
nothing to do with the company in question. Mr E raised these concerns with the fraudster 
but he was able to reassure Mr E that everything was legitimate.
In March 2017, believing his TCR was soon to expire, Mr E tried to withdraw all funds from 
his account. However he was repeatedly given excuses why he was unable to, and says the 
fraudsters then pretended to trade and lose repeatedly on the account so that he couldnt 
make a withdrawal. At this point Mr E realised hed been the victim of a scam and reported 
the incident to Barclays. Barclays contacted the receiving bank to try to recover funds but 
were advised no funds remained.
In 2020, after ongoing communications with the Police, Mr E contacted Barclays again to 
make a complaint. He said that he didnt think Barclays had done enough to protect him and 
that he wasnt warned about the name of the recipient bank not matching where the funds 
were intended for. Barclays provided its final response in July 2020. It said that as Mr E 
authorised the payments, its his responsibility to satisfy himself that the person hes paying 
is legitimate. Barclays awarded £100 in compensation for providing incorrect account details 
on previous correspondence.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr E brought the complaint to our service. While initially 
upheld, Barclays provided further defence points which were considered by another 
investigator, who didnt think Barclays could have done more to prevent the scam. He didnt 
consider the payments Mr E made were so unusual that they shouldve raised Barclays 
suspicions. And he was satisfied Barclays did what it could to recover the money once it was 
made aware of the scam.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no question that Mr E has been the victim of fraud. But the question that I must 
consider here is the extent to which Barclays can be considered liable for his loss. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
In 2016, there were some circumstances where a bank should have taken additional steps 
before processing a payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm, 
and that includes customers who have fallen victim to investment scams. In recent years, 
there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to greater 
expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mr E when he requested the payment transfers, based on the expectations 
of banks in 2016. I also need to consider whether Barclays did all that it ought to have done 
when he reported that the payments were fraudulent. Having done so, in this particular case 
Im not persuaded Barclays should refund Mr E the amount he lost. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered whether Barclays shouldve done more to identify these transactions as 
potentially being fraudulent and prevented Mr E from making them. 
I accept Mr E was making large payments, but I dont think the circumstances of these 
transactions ought to have prompted Barclays to question whether Mr E might be at risk of 
falling victim to a scam. I say this because in the four months prior to the scam, Mr E had received a large credit into his Barclays account from a house sale, had made two other 
payments towards investments which were significantly higher in value than the fraudulent 
transactions and also received a number of larger credits into the account from investments. 
Therefore, by the time the scam occurred there was an established pattern of large value 
payments going into and out of the account, mostly from investments. Based on this account 
activity at the time of the scam, I dont think the fraudulent transfers were so unusual that 
Barclays ought to have reached out to Mr E to make enquiries about the payments before it 
processed them. I understand that Mr E considers these months in question werent 
indicative of his usual account activity and that high value debits were due to his recent 
house sale having gone through, but Mr E has confirmed that all other transactions at the 
time were genuine, so I think that for the specific period of time in question, Barclays didnt 
act unreasonably by not considering the fraudulent payments as unusual.
Ive considered that one payment transfer was made by telephone. Mr E and Barclays have 
both confirmed that the transaction made by telephone banking wasnt due to any blocks 
present on Mr Es account that he needed to discuss with Barclays, but rather a preference 
on that transaction. As the transaction hadnt been flagged as fraudulent, and again 
considering the expectations on banks in 2016, I cant fairly conclude that Barclays shouldve 
asked further probing questions about the transaction in question. Due to the length of time 
thats passed since the call took place, the call recording is also no longer available, so I also 
cant say with any certainty what questions Barclays did ask at the time.
Ive also considered Mr Es points that some of the transactions were made on the same day 
 and by different methods to other large transactions. While I agree with Mr E that there are 
numerous indicators for fraudulent transactions and not just the payments value, I need to 
consider holistically whether I think Barclays acted unreasonably by not intervening. While 
payments were made on the same day to the same payee, there was also a 10 day gap 
between the first transactions being made and the next set of transactions, followed by 
another gap of a few days.  Overall in the circumstances of this complaint, I still dont think 
these payments were so remarkable, based on Mr Es account use at the time, that Barclays 
shouldve intervened.
Even if I were to conclude that Barclays shouldve intervened, Id still need to consider 
whether I think intervention wouldve made a difference. In this case, theres not enough 
evidence to persuade me that it would have. I accept there were certain indicators of a scam 
that might have suggested to Barclays that Mr E was at risk of financial harm. However, I 
also have to consider that Mr E visited the apparent offices of the trading firm and was told 
that company didnt work there, and also contacted the supposed director of the firm who 
advised he had nothing to do with the company. The fraudster was able to reassure Mr E on 
both these points. 
Based on my experience, I know how convincing fraudsters can be and based on the 
evidence available, I think that had Barclays provided a warning or suggested Mr E conduct 
additional research before making further payments, the fraudster wouldve provided 
reassurances to Mr E to continue, as they did after Mr E exposed some of the lies in their 
story. There also werent any warnings available about the trading firm in question at the 
time Mr E made these payments, so had he done further research I think its unlikely he 
wouldve found anything that wouldve alerted him that this was a scam.
Mr E has said Barclays shouldve warned him that the beneficiary account name he provided 
didnt match the actual recipient account name.  In 2020 some banking groups, including 
Barclays, were directed to implement Confirmation of Payee, whereby the bank cross-
references the name provided for a new payee against the intended recipient bank. 
However, before this time, payments were only processed using the account number and 
sort code provided and while the account name may have been requested, this wasnt cross referenced by either bank involved in the payment transfer. I therefore dont think Barclays 
could have identified that the transfers werent reaching the payee name intended by Mr E.
Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays did enough once Mr E made it aware of the fraud 
on his account. I understand Mr E has been given conflicting information from the Police and 
Barclays about whether any of his funds remain in the beneficiary account. Having reviewed 
the beneficiary statements I can confirm that Mr Es funds had been withdrawn from the 
account before he raised a claim with Barclays. I therefore dont think Barclays couldve 
done anything more to recover Mr Es funds, once it had been made aware of fraud on his 
account.
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mr E has been through here and the impact this 
has had on him. But unfortunately, Im not persuaded that this was a consequence of any 
specific failing on the part of Barclays  so whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman