DRN-2224971
The complaint
Mr D says Gracombex Ltd - trading as The Money Platform - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans The Money Platform provided to Mr D 
between February and August 2019. A summary of Mr Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 17/02/2019 25/04/2019 3 £250.00 £139.33
2 07/05/2019 26/07/2019 3 £500.00 £278.67
3 04/08/2019 18/10/2019 3 £750.00 £362.00
Mr Ds complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information The Money Platform had 
asked Mr D to provide that should have prompted The Money Platform to do more checks. 
So, the adjudicator couldnt say The Money Platform was wrong to have given the loans to 
Mr D.  
Mr D disagreed. He said he was having difficulty repaying the loans and was struggling 
financially. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that The Money Platform should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought The Money Platforms 
checks didnt go far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially 
and was behind on his repayments for other loans. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
The Money Platform has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving 
any of the borrowing. It has said it asked Mr D about his employment status and he 
confirmed he was employed and had a monthly income of £3,000. The Money Platform also 
checked Mr Ds normal monthly living costs. Mr D declared these to be between £1,268 and 
£1,288 a month. The Money Platform says it also searched Mr Ds credit file and it has 
provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or 
county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out. So there 
didnt look like there was anything that ought to have caused The Money Platform any 
concern. 
Mr D has also provided a copy of his bank statements from the time of each loan. These 
show that he was struggling to manage his money and that he had some borrowing from 
other short-term lenders. But  as Ive explained above - I dont think there was anything in 
the proportionate checks The Money Platform did which ought to have prompted it to carry 
out further checks  like asking Mr D for copies of his bank statements. 
Mr D borrowed all three loans within six months. So, he was very early on in his lending 
relationship with The Money Platform. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
The Money Platform. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr D provided at the time 
which would have given The Money Platform cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable 
of The Money Platform to have relied on what Mr D gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
The Money Platform to carry out. Given these, I think the checks The Money Platform did 
before lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to 
undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr D declared to The Money Platform at the time of the loans may not have 
been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think The Money Platform 
was entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what 
The Money Platform knew about Mr D, I wouldnt have expected The Money Platform to 
verify the information Mr D gave it. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr D, and Ive thought carefully about 
what hes said about other lending complaints being upheld. But I consider each complaint 
on its own merits and for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant say that The Money 
Platform done something wrong in lending Mr D these loans. I hope  however - that my 
explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusionMy final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and make no award against Gracombex Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman