DRN-4150299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that more 2 life Ltd delayed the redemption of his lifetime mortgage. 
The delay caused the early repayment charge (ERC) to go up.
What happened
In 2021, Mr and Mrs T arranged a lifetime mortgage with more 2 life. As part of that they 
were repaying an existing lifetime mortgage with another lender, lender A.
On 6 July 2021, they received a redemption statement from their existing lender with an 
ERC of £17,665.22. But they said that more 2 lifes solicitors lost some paperwork and as a 
result redemption was delayed. When they repaid the mortgage on 20 August 2021, the 
ERC had gone up to £21,776.50  and they had to increase the amount they were 
borrowing. They want more 2 life to pay them the difference between the initial ERC they 
were quoted and what they actually paid.
I issued a provisional decision proposing to uphold the complaint subject to any further 
submissions. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
Ive looked carefully at what happened here. I agree that there were delays by more 2 lifes
solicitors. But I dont consider that caused Mr and Mrs T to suffer a financial loss to the
extent they claim. Ill explain my reasons why.
the 6 July 2021 redemption statement
I agree with the investigator that more 2 life was not responsible for any of the initial delays.
So the ERC figure on the 6 July 2021 redemption statement is not a sound basis on which to
assess whether Mr and Mrs T have suffered a financial loss. I cant see that more 2 life or its
solicitors were responsible for the fact that Mr and Mrs T werent able to redeem their
previous mortgage using the 6 July figure.
Lender A has confirmed that it will honour an ERC for 14 days from the date a redemption
statement is issued. It will apply the gilt rate that is in favour of the borrower applied on the
date the redemption figure was requested or the day the mortgage was repaid. That is
different from my initial understanding that the ERC was calculated using the gilt rate that
applied on the day of redemption.
Mr and Mrs T were not in a position to complete their remortgage on 6 July 2021 or within
14 days of that. That was not due to any error by more 2 life. So it would not be reasonable
to calculate any financial loss by comparing what Mr and Mrs T eventually paid and the
redemption figure issued on 6 July 2021.
ERC
The ERC Mr and Mrs T had to pay with the previous lender was based on the FTSE UK Gilts
15 Year Yield index. If the Index fell against a benchmark rate of 2.03% Mr and Mrs T would
have to pay an ERC. The nature of the gilts is that the yield can fluctuate significantly over a
short period. That is an inherent risk of the previous lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs T
had. If the mortgage was repaid early, there was always possibility that it might happen
during a time when gilt yields were fluctuating.
More 2 life is not responsible for the way the ERC on Mr and Mrs Ts previous mortgage was
calculated. I agree that if there was clear evidence of a delay and that delay meant that Mr
and Mrs T lost out, that more 2 life should compensate them for that.
Delay
Ive already found that more 2 life was not responsible for the initial delays.
The evidence we have shows that paperwork from Mr and Mrs T was received by more 2
lifes solicitors on 30 July 2021. It was then mislaid due to an error by the solicitors. I
consider that more 2 lifes solicitors were carrying out an activity ancillary to lending on
behalf of more 2 life and therefore more 2 life is responsible for any acts or omissions in
relation to that by the solicitors it instructed to act on its behalf. I note that the solicitors said
that more 2 life was responsible for any complaint.
We have evidence that on 1 August 2021, Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors told more 2 lifes
solicitors not to go ahead with completion. It was not until 13 August 2021 that they asked
more 2 lifes solicitors to complete  and they could not do so. More 2 life has said that the 
solicitor had not specifically asked to complete, but rather were looking to agree a date to
complete.
The difficulty I have is that even if more 2 lifes solicitors had not lost the paperwork, I am not
persuaded that Mr and Mrs T would have been in a position to proceed with the mortgage
straight away. I say that because, as far as I can see, the mortgage offer they had was
based on the amount needed to redeem their existing mortgage on 6 July 2021. On that date
the relevant gilt yield was 1.1%. By the earliest point that Mr and Mrs T could have
completed, the gilt yield had fallen. So the amount needed to redeem their mortgage would
have gone up.
Mr and Mrs T had to change the amount they borrowed to accommodate the change in the
gilt yield when they did eventually complete. It seems likely that would have been the case if
more 2 life were in a position to proceed after 13 August.
I think I need to look at what actually happened when the new mortgage did complete to
decide what is likely to have happened had there not been any errors by more 2 lifes
solicitors. They found the lost paperwork on 17 August 2021. But it then took until 20 August
2021 for a revised offer to be issued and for the mortgage to complete. It follows that it is
likely that it would have taken a few days to get a revised offer ready. Again the gilt yields
changed during that period.
So, even if Mr and Mrs T had been in a position to proceed on 13 August 2021 (a Friday) it
would have taken a few days to sort things out and get a new mortgage offer in place. But
the evidence from lender A shows that Mr and Mrs T could have locked in a new redemption
figure for 14 days.
I consider that if more 2 lifes solicitors had not lost the paperwork, Mr and Mrs T would have
known that they needed to obtain a new redemption figure and offer on 13 August 2021.
They could have obtained a new redemption figure that day. Lender A would have honoured
that for 14 days. The gilt rate on 13 August 2021 was 0.91. That was the most favourable
rate for the next 14 days.Lender A has confirmed that the redemption figure on 13 August 2021 would have been
£21,218.79. Mr and Mrs T actually paid £21,776.50. So their financial loss is £557.71. I
consider in the circumstances it would be fair for more 2 life to refund that, with interest at
8% simple from 20 August 2021 until date of redemption.
I consider the existing award of £100 to reflect any distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs T
suffered as a result of this matter is fair and reasonable.
More 2 life accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs T said they had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further submissions from more 2 life or Mr and Mrs T, I see no reason 
to change the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision, as set out above. That is more 
2 life was responsible for some delays that caused Mr and Mrs T a financial loss  but not to 
the extent that Mr and Mrs T believe. 
My final decision
My final decision is that more 2 life Ltd should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T £557.71.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from 20 August 2021 until date 
of settlement. If more 2 life considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr and Mrs T £100 for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman