DRN-3088268
The complaint
 Mr H complains Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed several accounts in his name and 
unfairly reported them as defaulted.
What happened
The background facts of this complaint were explained by the investigator who issued their 
view on Mr Hs complaint. I find no need to repeat everything here, but in summary:
RBS closed several personal accounts which Mr H held, including a current account 
with an overdraft and a personal loan.
RBS reported the accounts as defaulted during early 2020 as Mr H hadnt paid the 
outstanding balances he owed as a result of the accounts closing.
Mr H complains the defaults were unfair and went on to impact the type of mortgage 
he could obtain.
RBS says it followed the correct process to record the defaults and close the 
accounts. Mr H has not yet agreed a repayment plan with its agent to collect the 
remaining debt.
An investigator at our service upheld Mr Hs complaint. They found:
The notice to close letter RBS provided was correctly addressed and there was 
nothing to indicate there were postal problems at the time. So, the letter was likely 
sent, meaning RBS complied with its terms and conditions to close the accounts. Its 
understandable that Mr H wanted to know why the accounts were closed, but RBS is 
under no obligation to disclose its reasons.
Although the notice to close letter was sent, this didnt negate the fact RBS gave     
Mr H misleading information which indicated his personal account was open, and that 
direct debits would be paid.
RBS failed to demonstrate it acted with forbearance and due consideration before 
deciding to report defaults on the accounts. There was a lack of documentation to 
show Mr H was properly informed his accounts were going to be recorded as 
defaulted after the limited repayment discussions he had with RBS or its agent.
RBS failed to assess Mr Hs full circumstances to see whether he could repay what 
he owed over a reasonable period. Had RBS done what it should have, Mr H may 
have been able to agree a suitable formal arrangement to pay which would have 
lessened the impact on his credit status. 
Mr H chances of obtaining a better mortgage deal may have been affected by the 
defaults. But there are many variables which can affect a lenders decision, and it 
wasnt possible to say with enough certainty that Mr H would have got the mortgage 
he wanted if the defaults had not been recorded.
RBS should pay Mr H £500 to make up for the stress the presence of the defaults 
had on him over what is a significant period. RBS should also remove the defaults 
from Mr Hs credit file in relation to the personal accounts he held.
Mr H accepted the outcome the investigator reached, but RBS did not. It agreed to pay Mr H 
£500 as a gesture of goodwill. But it says it shouldnt remove the defaults. Mr H has yet to 
agree a repayment plan with the third-party agent it is using to pursue the remainder of what 
he owes.
As no resolution was reached informally, the complaint was passed to me as an ombudsman 
to decide. I must make clear that my final decision only concerns the personal accounts 
which RBS reported as in default, and not Mr Hs business accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. These are my reasons:
Im not persuaded the letter informing Mr H that his personal accounts would close 
was sent. RBS employees across various departments could not see his personal 
accounts were marked as to close when speaking to him on several different 
occasions. Neither could they see a notice to close letter was issued or dispatched in 
October 2019 in relation to the accounts they were discussing. Ive placed weight of 
the fact they were specifically looking through their systems to explain what had 
happened but could not see the letter. I find its unlikely they would all miss a record 
of the letter being dispatched if one was present.
The fact a letter exists on file or may have been viewable by one of the persons Mr H 
spoke to, is not by itself evidence of dispatch. Administrative/system failures to send 
letters do occur from time to time and I think this is likely to have happened here.
Even though Im not persuaded correct notice to close was sent, I dont find the 
accounts should reopen. It was clear RBS wanted to end its relationship with Mr H 
and it is likely it could end its relationship with him under the respective terms and 
conditions of each account. RBS is entitled not to disclose its reasons, even though I 
understand this must be frustrating for Mr H.
Ending a relationship with a customer and recalling debt early is generally not 
enough of a reason by itself to record a default against an account. RBS needed to 
act with forbearance and due consideration about the debts Mr H owed. And what 
counts as forbearance and due consideration depends on the individual 
circumstances of a customer, as well as the amount of debt owed and what a 
reasonable length of time to repay that debt would be. 
Mr H had some form of discussion with RBS about repayment. And its clear he 
couldnt repay everything straight away, which is unsurprising given the total balance 
he owed across various products. But this shouldnt by itself mean his accounts had to be recorded as in default. After all, he doesnt appear to have missed repayments 
or persistently breached his repayment obligations when his accounts were open.
RBS debt manager notes lack specificity on what was discussed with Mr H about 
each of his personal debts. There is no income and expenditure assessment or 
evidence to show what alternatives were discussed or what was possible. So, Im 
satisfied RBS hasnt evidenced each default was based on a proper assessment of 
Mr H circumstances and what he could pay to prevent the defaults.
Personal debt remains which RBS own, and Mr H owes. And RBS says Mr H has yet 
to agree a repayment plan with the third-party agent it is using to collect the 
remaining debt. But I dont find this is enough to conclude the decision to default     
Mr H accounts was reasonable. The prospect of agreeing a way forward to repay 
already defaulted accounts is somewhat different to agreeing a formal arrangement 
to pay to avoid defaults. So, I dont find what is happening now is a reliable indication 
of what could have been agreed had a proper assessment of Mr Hs circumstances 
happened in early 2020. 
So, on balance, I dont find RBS acted fairly by reporting Mr Hs accounts as 
defaulted.
I agree that several defaults would likely negatively impact the choice of mortgage 
products available to Mr H. But I also find there are many variables which may impact 
lenders decisions, and its not certain Mr H would have got the mortgage product he 
wanted had the defaults not occurred.
Mr H was unlikely to have been able to repay RBS the full amount he owed within a 
short period of time had proper discussions taken place about his circumstances and 
what was possible. I say this because if he had been able to repay what he owed 
quickly, I think he would have done so. 
So, even if RBS assessed Mr Hs circumstances fully in early 2020, I find either a 
formal arrangement to pay would have been agreed or a default may still have been 
recorded (but this time based on an informed assessment that there was no 
reasonable prospect of Mr H repaying what he owed over a reasonable period). So, 
whatever would have happened, Mr Hs credit profile would have likely been 
negatively affected.
RBS agreed to pay Mr H £500 as a gesture of goodwill. I find this is a fair and 
reasonable sum to compensate Mr H for the length of time defaults have been 
reported. Mr H was likely very concerned about the impact the defaults would have 
on him and his future. I also find the sum fairly compensates him for the clear and 
repeated miscommunication and errors which occurred when he rang RBS to discuss 
his personal current account in late 2020.
Putting things right
I direct RBS to remove the defaults it recorded against Mr Hs personal accounts and pay 
him £500 in compensation.
Mr H does, however, need to be aware that my direction does not prevent RBS from 
potentially recording defaults in relation to the debt he owes in the future. Its fair for RBS 
and its agents to expect him to engage on agreeing a repayment plan. And, if a proper assessment of Mr Hs circumstances shows he cannot make more than token payments 
towards his debt, meaning the debt would not be repaid within a reasonable period of time, it 
might be fair for RBS and/or its agent to record those accounts as defaulted.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I direct Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr H 
redress and remove the defaults it recorded against his closed personal accounts in line with 
my directions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman