DRN-4123315
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money handled her 
request for money back in respect of a hotel booking she made using her Virgin Money 
credit card.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss S booked accommodation at a hotel Ill call G via an online agent Ill call B
for a party of around 24 people. The accommodation was to be used in May 2020. The total
cost was £2,630.
Very shortly after the booking was made G contacted Miss S to explain it would require an
upfront deposit of 50% which it said would act as a non-refundable rental deposit. Miss S
paid £1,326 to G using her Virgin Money credit card.
In early April 2020 Miss S contacted G to explain she wanted to change the dates of her
stay. G told Miss S it would contact B to cancel other bookings for her and calculate new
rates. Miss S said she looked on Bs website but couldnt find the dates she wanted so
asked G what would happen to the deposit she paid if she booked directly with it.
When G got back in touch with Miss S it said her deposit was non-refundable and non-
transferrable so she couldnt transfer the money shed paid already towards a new booking.
Instead it offered discounted rates for a new booking of around 50% and it said the full cost
could be paid on arrival with no deposit required.
On this basis, Miss S made a new booking directly with G in April 2020 for February 2021. G
took no deposit from Miss S and confirmed she would need to pay £1,480 on arrival.
In October 2020 Miss S emailed G and asked if she could change the dates of her stay
again until sometime in late 2021 or 2022.
G said Miss S couldnt move the booking past February 2021 as it fell into a different rate
plan year. G offered to provide a credit note to Miss S for the deposit she had originally paid
to it on the first booking, less Bs fees, to be used against a future booking.
Miss S used the credit note to place a deposit against a new booking for September 2021.
G confirmed Miss S would have to pay £1,578 upon arrival.
In December 2020 G entered administration. In October 2021 the administrator wrote to
Miss S and explained it was unlikely there would be a dividend to unsecured creditors.
Miss S asked Virgin Money to step in and help in October 2021. Virgin Money considered 
Miss Ss claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) but it didnt think it 
could help. It said that because Miss S had cancelled her original booking and had paid G a 
non-refundable, non-transferable deposit, this meant it only funded the original booking and 
was not liable to her for anything that went wrong with the subsequent bookings she made 
with G.  
Unhappy with Virgin Moneys response and having not received a final response letter in
respect of her complaint about this, Miss S referred the matter to this service.
After this Virgin Money issued a final response letter. It said it was still not going to meet
Miss Ss claim but offered to pay her £75 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss S did not accept this
offer.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 setting out why I didnt plan to uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. I said, 
I am looking here at the actions of Virgin Money and whether it has acted fairly and
reasonably in the way it handled Miss Ss request for help in getting her money back. 
This will take into account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier 
has acted, but there are also other considerations, such as the card scheme rules a 
bank must follow and its own obligations.
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a 
supplier who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money 
from the supplier through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether 
its customer has a valid claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75).
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for 
a payment a customer made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a 
dispute with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the 
customer. While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the 
right exists and there is some prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute 
means it wont always be appropriate.
The relevant card scheme rules set out that Miss S could raise a chargeback if 
(among other things) services shed paid for hadnt been supplied to her or if a credit 
hadnt been provided when it should have been.
Looking at what happened here, Miss S agreed with G on two separate occasions  
that it would cancel the bookings she had made and that it would make new bookings 
for new dates. She forfeited her deposit on one booking and accepted that shed take 
a credit note on another. This appears to be different from a case of simply amending 
the dates of the same booking twice.
It appears therefore (Miss S only having used her credit card to pay the deposit on 
the original booking and that agreement having come to an end upon cancellation) 
that Miss Ss credit card payment did not fund the last agreement she made with G. It 
was unlikely therefore shed have had grounds to raise a chargeback in respect of 
that agreement.
This is relevant because the last agreement Miss S entered into with G was the only 
agreement where G was unable to provide its services (as a result of going into 
administration) and therefore was likely the only transaction that Miss S had any 
reasonable prospect of charging back.
I say this because when Miss S agreed with G that it would cancel her bookings in 
April 2020 and October 2020 it wasnt clear yet that her visits in May 2020 or February 2021 would be unable to go ahead  the UK government hadnt yet 
extended the Covid-19 lockdown rules that far ahead. So, I dont think it could be 
said that G was unable to provide its services at those points.
It seems likely therefore that a chargeback raised for services not provided would 
have been defended on the basis the services were available at the time Miss S 
cancelled them. There do not appear to have been grounds either to raise a 
chargeback for where a credit hadnt been processed because Miss S was not 
entitled to a refund of her deposit in the event she cancelled her stay.
This aside, its likely Miss S would have encountered further problems with 
chargebacks on these transactions. The relevant scheme rules make it conditional 
that a chargeback must be raised within 120 days of the last expected date of 
delivery  which in this case would have been the dates Miss S was due to stay at 
the hotel. Miss S didnt make Virgin Money aware of her dispute until October 2021. 
So, its likely chargebacks for services not provided would also have been defended 
on the basis they had been raised too late.
Overall therefore, although Virgin Money didnt raise a chargeback in this case, it 
doesnt appear there was a reasonable prospect of one succeeding. So, I dont find 
Virgin Money treated Miss S unfairly by failing to do this.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
One of those criteria was that Miss Ss claim had to relate to a transaction financed 
by a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. In other words, given Miss Ss claim 
here, it had to relate to a transaction between either her and G or her and B that was 
financed by her Virgin Money credit card.
Miss S paid the deposit to G using her Virgin Money Credit card and didnt pay 
anything to B. This means Virgin Money didnt likely finance whatever transaction 
there may have been between her and B.
Nevertheless, Bs contract set out that Miss S had entered into a separate contract 
with G for the provision of its services (i.e. the hotel rooms). So, it appears Virgin 
Money did likely finance a transaction between Miss S and G in June 2019 for the 
provision of accommodation to her in May 2020. Ill call this agreement one.
As Ive said earlier in this decision, during the course of Miss Ss dealings with G in 
April 2020, she agreed with G that on the basis the existing dates were no longer 
suitable for her, it would cancel her booking made via B for her and make a new one, 
directly with it, for February 2021.
Miss S then changed the dates again with G from February 2021 to September 2021. 
It appears from communications between Miss S and G that she had to cancel the 
booking again in order to do this as it was not possible to simply transfer the existing 
booking to a new date. G offered Miss S a credit note of around £800 to put towards 
the third booking with it.
I think all of this meant three things. Firstly, agreement one had likely been brought to  
an end at the request of Miss S in April 2020. Secondly, Miss S entered into a new agreement in April 2020 for the February 2021 booking (Ill call this agreement two). 
Thirdly, Miss S cancelled agreement two in October 2020 and entered into a third 
agreement for September 2021, paid for in part using the credit note that G had 
provided (agreement three).
I remind myself again that Miss Ss claim had to relate to a transaction between her 
and G that was financed by Virgin Money. I think its likely in this case that the only 
transaction Virgin Money financed was agreement one and not agreements two or 
three. In other words, there was only a DCS agreement in respect of that first 
agreement.
However even if agreement two was in fact an amendment to agreement one rather 
than a whole new agreement, by the time Miss S asked to change the dates again in 
October 2020 I think G had made it clear that it couldnt accommodate a simple date 
change and that a new booking would need to be made  which she secured using a 
credit note G had provided. I think this made it even more unlikely that Virgin Money 
financed agreement three as the deposit she paid had become even more detached 
from the transaction by this point.
As an aside on that point, while the issuing of the credit note when Miss S cancelled
agreement two might appear inconsistent with Gs explanation that the deposit from
agreement one was non-transferable, it seems likely this was offered as a gesture of
goodwill rather than something it was obliged to do by the terms of its contract with 
Miss S in the event of cancellation by her. So, I dont think it meant that Miss Ss 
initial deposit paid in respect of agreement one funded agreement three.
I dont find therefore that Virgin Money was being unreasonable when it told Miss S  
that it had limited its assessment of her claim to the transaction it considered it had 
financed.
Ive considered whether Virgin Money made a fair assessment of whether there had 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the earlier agreements. There has 
been no suggestion of a misrepresentation. And there doesnt appear to have been a 
breach of contract either. Miss S agreed with G that it would cancel agreements one 
and two. And in accordance with what it was permitted to under the terms of its 
contract with her, it kept her deposit upon cancellation. Any agreements made after 
this as to the price of a new booking or the issuing of a credit note appear to have 
been made as gesture of goodwill by G and not something it was contractually 
obliged to do.
Its very likely that Gs failure to provide the accommodation as a result of it entering 
into administration would have been a breach of agreement three. But this happened 
on an agreement that wasnt funded by Virgin Money because Miss S didnt make 
any payments towards that agreement using her credit card. So, its unlikely Miss S 
had a valid claim under section 75 in respect of that agreement. I dont find therefore 
that Virgin Money treated Miss S unfairly when declined to meet her claim.
I know this will be incredibly disappointing for Miss S. I really do sympathise with her 
that through no fault of her own, shes lost her deposit. But it wouldnt be fair to 
require Virgin Money to refund Miss Ss deposit if I didnt think it had treated her 
unfairly by declining to meet her claim. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think it did. 
Virgin Money offered Miss S £75 as a gesture of goodwill in its final response letter. 
Its not entirely clear what this for. However, having considered how long it took Virgin Money to consider Miss Ss claim and the likely distress and inconvenience 
this would have caused her, I think Virgin should still pay this to Miss S, if it hasnt 
already.
Miss S disagreed with my provisional decision. She said she called Virgin Money as soon as 
she learned G had gone into administration in December 2020 but was told shed need to 
call back after the date her stay was due to take place. So, she said she contacted Virgin 
Money in time for it to raise a chargeback. 
Virgin Money said it didnt have any additional or comments save to confirm it had paid the 
£75 referred to in my provisional decision to Miss S in September 2022. 
The complaint was therefore passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Miss Ss comments about chargeback. I explained in my provisional 
decision that the only transaction Miss S could likely have raised a chargeback on was the 
first one (i.e. the booking for May 2020 made in June 2019) as thats the only booking that 
she paid for using her credit card. That particular booking was brought to an end by 
agreement between Miss S and G in April 2020.
That meant Miss S had 120 days under the card scheme rules from May 2020 at the latest  
to raise a chargeback. So even if I were to accept that Miss S made contact with Virgin 
Money when she said she did in October 2020, there was still a strong chance the 
chargeback would not have succeeded on the grounds it had been brought too late. 
I also explained in my provisional decision that because the service was still available for 
Miss S to use at the point in time she cancelled it in April 2020 and because she wasnt 
entitled to a refund of her deposit in the event she cancelled, it was unlikely a chargeback 
would have succeeded even if it had been raised in time. Ive not been provided with 
anything that makes me see this any different. 
I can understand why Miss S is disappointed by my conclusion. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I sympathise that shes lost out through no fault of her own. But the right to a 
refund in her circumstances is not automatic and there still needs to be a reason why Virgin 
Money was liable to her for a refund  which unfortunately for Miss S, it appears there isnt in 
her case. 
So, for the reasons I have explained here and in the extract of my provisional decision 
above, I still dont find Virgin Money treated Miss S unfairly by declining to meet her claim for 
a refund of her hotel deposit. 
Virgin Money said it already paid the compensation of £75 I discussed in my provisional 
decision to Miss S in September 2022. The communications Ive seen suggest Miss S 
declined to accept this. So, if Virgin Money hasnt in fact paid this sum to Miss S yet then it 
should do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
should pay Miss S compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her (if it hasnt already done this). I do not require it to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman