DRN-4090142
The complaint
A company which Ill call C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated it unfairly by 
preventing its dissolution as a company due to its outstanding Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and 
using its overdraft to make the loan repayments.
 
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by its director, Mrs C.
What happened
C held an overdraft account with HSBC which was secured by a personal guarantee from 
Mrs C. C took out a BBL for £12,500 in November 2020, with monthly repayments due to 
start a year later. C then applied under the BBL Pay As You Grow options for six-month 
repayment holiday and term extension, so its new reduced payments would commence in 
June 2022. 
Mrs C says she called HSBC in June to say that C was no longer trading and that the bank 
said it would be chasing for repayment of the companys overdraft. C made its loan 
repayments for June, July, and August, but due to Cs trading performance, in August, Mrs C 
was advised by Cs accountant for the company to be struck off as it had ceased trading. 
C made its September and October repayments, and in October 2022, HSBC received 
notification from Companies House that C was due to be dissolved. So the bank wrote to 
Mrs C to say she had two months to stop this action, but if C was dissolved it would cause 
an event of default under the terms of the BBL. 
HSBC allowed the BBL repayments to debit Cs overdraft in November and December, so 
Mrs C complained to HSBC. She said it was unfair that the bank had used Cs overdraft to 
make the BBL repayments as this was increasing the companys debt. She also said it was 
unfair that HSBC wouldnt let her dissolve C, as it had a large amount of outstanding finance 
but had no income to make any repayments and a Cs director, this was affecting her health.    
HSBC upheld Cs complaint. They said C had applied for voluntary strike-off action in August 
2022, however due to the outstanding BBL an objection was received from the Department 
of Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). The bank also apologised that Mrs C 
hadnt been given clear information about Cs overdraft when shed called the bank in June 
and paid £100 for the inconvenience. 
In January 2023, HSBC wrote to Mrs C to offer C a further six-month repayment holiday to 
reassess the companys financial position and the outstanding balance. The bank said that 
the arrears would still increase on the BBL so C may receive a default notice for the 
outstanding balance and if the company couldnt make the repayment, the bank would then 
issue a formal demand. Mrs C felt the banks actions were threatening and it had behaved 
unfairly by using the overdraft to make the BBL repayments whilst stopping the company 
from being struck off, so she asked this service to review Cs complaint.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
that HSBC had called an event of default when the bank received notification of Cs 
attempted strike off action. She also said that although HSBC hadnt objected to Cs strike 
off action, as this had been done by the BEIS, it would also have been entitled to do so. The 
investigator also thought it was reasonable for HBSC to continue using the overdraft to make 
the BBL repayments, as Mrs C hadnt asked the bank to cancel the direct debit or restrict the 
overdraft. And that the £100 compensation for the unclear information given to Mrs C when 
she called HSBC in June to discuss the overdraft was fair. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She said she hadnt cancelled Cs BBL direct debit as shed been told by 
the bank that no action was required. So she asked for an ombudsman to review Cs 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mrs C feels HSBC has acted unfairly as they wouldnt allow her to dissolve C despite it not 
trading and having no way to repay its outstanding debts. I recognise this has been a difficult 
time for Mrs C, but I dont think the bank has acted unreasonably here. When a company 
applies to be struck off the Companies Register, any interested party such as a creditor can 
object to this action being taken. HSBC has told us on several occasions that it hasnt made 
the objection and that this was done by the BEIS. As the BBL was a government backed 
loan, I think HSBCs explanation is reasonable and I cant hold the bank responsible for an 
action it didnt take.
The terms of the BBL say that an event of default will occur if for example, C didnt make its 
required repayments under the agreement or if the bank received notification of an event 
such as liquidation or dissolution. If an event of default was deemed to have taken place, 
then HSBC could then demand immediate repayment of the loan. I recognise that Mrs C 
feels that the banks letters which set out these terms were threatening. However Ive looked 
at the letters and Im satisfied that they set out the banks legal and regulatory requirements 
and provide C with factual information about the next steps in the process. So I dont think 
the bank did anything wrong here. 
Mrs C also says that HSBC has acted unfairly as it used Cs overdraft to make BBL 
repayments, and that she was told she didnt need to take any action when she spoke to the 
bank. Ive listened to the call Mrs C had with HSBC where the call handler said she didnt 
have to take any action with Cs current account as it was likely to close in 30 days, they 
didnt expect that C would make any further repayments to the BBL, and that the banks 
dedicated team would be in contact. Based on this call, I think its reasonable that Mrs C 
thought Cs overdraft position would remain unchanged and that she didnt realise she 
should cancel the BBL direct debit to prevent further repayments being made. 
HSBC has apologised for the unclear information and paid £100 compensation, and I think 
thats enough to put things right. I say that because there hasnt been any real impact to 
here as C was liable for the total amount of debt across both facilities. I recognise Mrs C is 
concerned that her position as Cs director has been negatively impacted because of the 
way Cs debt structure has changed. However, Mrs C gave an all monies personal 
guarantee for £10,000. This means that the maximum she would be liable for under Cs 
overdraft facility or BBL is this amount  regardless of which facility the debt was held under. 
So although I recognise this has been frustrating for Mrs C, I dont think HSBCs error has 
put C or Mrs C in a worse financial position. I acknowledge that this has been a difficult time for Mrs C, and that she has told us that C is 
in financial difficulty and unable to make the required repayments on the BBL. I would 
encourage Mrs C to contact HSBC about this to discuss an affordable repayment 
arrangement as the bank should treat C fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman