DRN-1666285
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using the information provided by Cashfloat, the loan table below briefly summarises the
lending. As most of these loans were repayable over two or three repayments, then they can 
be viewed as a series of payday loans.The figures have been rounded up or down to 
dispense with pence.
Loan              Date                  amount      Repayments due             closed
1            7 July 2017               £400                2 x £256                25 August 2017
2         27 August 2017            £300                1 x £377             25 September 2017
3     28 September 2017         £500                3 x £248             29 December 2017
4         6 January 2018            £200                2 x £131              27 February 2018
5       28 February 2018          £400                3 x £199                  17 July 2018
6      24 December 2018         £400                3 x £194                 20 March 2019
7          22 June 2019              £200                2 x £134                 3 August 2019
8          26 June 2019              £200                2 x £131
Loan 8 was in arrears and from September 2019 reduced payments of around £54 were due 
to be made. It may still be outstanding.
Mr K sent a detailed complaint letter to Cashfloat and one paragraph sums up his concerns:
at the time I applied for my Cashfloat loans and from the months of October/ November
2016 my credit file should have been demonstrative of sustained borrowing, whereby loans 
are being obtained on a regular basis over an extended period from various payday lenders. 
This sustained borrowing is even more clearly evident from January 2017 to date. These 
loans appeared unaffordable identified a clear pattern of borrowing, which is symptomatic of 
a reliance on credit, which you should have investigated further, prior to issuing me more 
payday loans.
Cashfloat, in its final response letter to Mr K, outlined its approach to applications. 
It concluded that the combination of the information provided by Mr K and the credit 
reference agency information it had received, led it to consider he had sufficient funds to 
comfortably cover the agreed repayments on each of your Cashfloat loans, without 
jeopardising your existing credit commitments and priority living expenses.
Cashfloat has pointed out that there were breaks in the lending: over five months between 
repaying Loan 5 and applying for Loan 6, and a three month gap between Loans 6 and 7.The last loan was outstanding when Cashfloat wrote to Mr K and it made an offer to him:
We will close your final account with no further repayments due.
Mr K did not accept that offer and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought that 
Cashfloat should put things right in relation to Loans 4 to 8. Mr K sent some 
additional information and made more submissions on why he thought that Loans 1 to 3 
ought to be upheld. Our adjudicator revised the outcome and thought that things should be 
put right for Loans 2 to 8. And after additional submissions by Cashfloat, our adjudicator 
wrote a third time to reiterate the second outcome and said:
[Mr K] sent us a copy of his updated credit report and it shows he had three outstanding 
short term [loans] (STLs) with other lenders at the time he took out loan 2. I consider three 
outstanding STLs at one time to be significant and a strong indicator that [Mr K] was having 
problems managing his money. I expected you to have taken steps to build a more detailed 
picture of [Mr Ks] financial situation from loan 2. Regardless of what your checks showed,
I have evidence which shows [Mr K] had significant amounts of outstanding STLs when loan
2 was taken out. Therefore, I feel loan 2 and any subsequent loans were unfairly given to 
him.
Our adjudicator upheld Loans 5 to 8 on the basis of it being repetitive lending and therefore 
unsustainable. Cashfloat replied by requesting that it be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision. And Mr K has not added anything further and was interested to know how 
Cashfloat had responded to the revised outcome. So, I take it Mr K was content with our 
adjudicators second view.
Loans 2 to 8 remained in dispute. The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I did not 
review Loan 1 as that seems not to be in dispute now. I issued a provisional decision - the 
main content of which is replicated here. Neither party responded and so the reply date of 13 
March has passed and this is my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has sent to us a series of previous ombudsman published decisions relating to short
term payday lending, banking and cases involving revolving credit. Not all are the same
product as those taken by Mr K and so are not wholly relevant. And we approach each
complaint on its own individual merits and its own circumstances.
Addressing Cashfloats point on the lending gaps, then I do not think that the gaps are long
enough to lead me to think that there was a break in the lending relationship. So, I will be
treating this as one continuous lending period from July 2017 to June 2019. But I do think
that the periods of non-lending make a difference when it comes to considering whether
there was a pattern of repetitive lending. I do not think that there was, and I address this later 
in the decision.
 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do not think that this pattern of
lending was apparent with Mr Ks situation.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without
having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
For Loan 2, which was for £300 with a £377 repayment sum, I think that proportionate
checks would have included asking Mr K for details of his income, expenditure and his 
other short-term loan commitments.
Mr K does refer to his credit situation and is concerned that more was not discovered about
it at the time the loans were approved. Mr K has sent me a detailed spreadsheet and a table 
to demonstrate the other outstanding short-term loans he had at the time he took these
loans with Cashfloat. I have seen his personal credit file.
Cashfloats submissions describe in detail and rely on the nature and extent of the credit 
checks and verification searches it carried out before approving each of Mr Ks loans. One of 
its points is:  the figure for monthly credit commitments is verified using up-to-date 
information received from leading credit reference agencies. We have invested significant 
amounts in subscribing for [omitted for confidentiality reasons] product, which as you no 
doubt are aware is as up to date as it is possible to obtain at present.
But I have received only one set of results from June 2019 which was at the end of the two 
year lending relationship. I have no earlier ones.
As Cashfloat makes it clear that its creditworthiness assessment included lots of elements 
including up-to-the-minute credit searches then I have decided that it is reasonable for me 
to reconstruct what Cashfloat was likely to have seen. And I do this as Cashfloat are making it clear it carried these out and so it is very likely to have had this information which could not 
be ignored when assessing Mr K for his creditworthiness before approving a loan.
The information I have from Mr Ks personal credit file and the other information I have about 
Mr Ks financial situation shows the extent and the regularity with which Mr K had been, and 
was continuing to take, high cost short term loans. Our adjudicator has given her opinion 
about Loan 2 which seems in line with my own analysis of Mr Ks situation. And as an 
example, I have identified at least three outstanding STL when Mr K applied for Loan 3, the 
repayments for which I think approached £600 for that month. And for Loan 4, four other STL 
were outstanding with total repayments of about £785.
So, I uphold Loans 2, 3 and 4 on the basis that this information was very likely to have been 
revealed in the credit search results and would have demonstrated to Cashfloat 
that approval of additional loans were not likely to have been affordable. 
As the lending relationship progressed, by Loan 5, I think that a full and financial review of 
Mr Ks situation ought to have been carried out. If Cashfloat has the credit search results it 
says it has then these would have revealed the picture of a person with extensive 
outstanding loans. And if additional verification had been carried out  such as viewing
Mr Ks bank statements  then it would have seen Mr Ks true financial position. And the 
transactions which appear on his bank statements indicate he was spending significant 
sums on gaming and online betting sites. And a full financial review would likely have
revealed this as being one of the reasons for Mr K having to apply for loans. I doubt that
Cashfloat would have approved loans where Mr Ks gaming was known to them and as
I have said, I think that a full financial review would have revealed this.
I differ from the adjudicator in relation to Loans 5 to 8 for the basis of their recommended
reasons for upholding these loans. I do not think that the lending pattern from Loan 5 to 8
shows there was a pattern of repeat lending and reliance on the Cashfloat loans. As I have
referred to the gaps in lending earlier in this provisional decision I have explained that I am 
treating this as one loan chain. But I mention here the smaller periods of non-lending such
as between repaying a loan in July 2018 and applying again at the end of 2018. And another 
gap after repaying in March 2019 and applying again several months later. These do not 
suggest a pattern of repeat lending and so my view differs to the adjudicators.
So I uphold Loans 5 to 8 but due to the extensive nature of Mr Ks STL with other
companies, and the underlying reason likely being the multiple gaming transactions.
My final decision
Cashfloat ought not to have approved Loans 2 to 8 and it ought to do the following:
If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 8  if it remains outstanding - it should 
buy it back if able, and then take the following steps. If Cashfloat is not able to buy the debt 
back then it needs to liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Cashfloat should:
A.  add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it has 
already refunded.
B.  calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C.  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on Loan 8  if there is one - and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr K having made overpayments then Cashfloat should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. It should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and C and move to step E.
D.  If there is still an outstanding balance on Loan 8, then the amounts calculated in A and 
B should be used to repay any balance remaining on Loan 8. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr K. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Cashfloat should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K.
E.  remove any adverse payment information you have recorded on Mr Ks credit file in 
relation to loans 2 to 8. If Cashfloat has sold any of the loans and unable to buy the debt 
back, it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct that Western Circle Ltd, 
trading as Cashfloat, do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman