DRN-3350687
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a points-based timeshare from a business, Business C, in August 
2005. The cost of the membership was £4,100 and it was funded by a point of sale loan 
from First National (which later became GE Money). The loan was in joint names and set 
to run for 15 years. 
Mr and Mrs W say that, when they purchased the timeshare, they were told that 
purchasing points was akin to an investment and that they would be able to have high 
quality holidays whenever they wanted. They say they were also assured the 
maintenance fees would not increase and that they could sell their membership at any 
time.
So, Mr and Mrs W say that Business C misrepresented to them at the time of sale the 
availability and quality of accommodation. They also say the points were not akin to an 
investment and did not increase in value, whilst the maintenance fees increased. 
Mr and Mrs W also say that, had they known that what Business C had said wasnt right, 
they would not have purchased the timeshare in the first place.
In February 2018, Mr and Mrs W, using a representative, complained to GE Money. As the 
sale took place many years before the complaint, GE Money said the complaint had been 
brought too late under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to 
do anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been 
brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the 
claims. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint 
had been brought in time. And as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr and Mrs W and GE Money my provisional decision to explain why I think I didnt 
think I should uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. And I said Id consider anything else they 
wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 27 April 2022. Neither Mr and Mrs W or 
GE Money has not responded to the provisional decision. As the 27 April 2022 has now 
passed I will issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision, which I have included below, explained why I thought Mr and Mrs 
Ws case should not be upheld. In the absence of any new information or points from Mr and 
Mrs W and GE Money, my final decision is that GE Money did not unfairly turn down Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act and Mr and Mrs W case 
should not be upheld. 
Findings from my provisional decision issued on 30 March 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including the law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and 
good industry practice. Having done so, Im not currently minded to tell GE Money to 
do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs W that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs W say that Business C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of 
the timeshare agreement  which they say GE Money is jointly liable for under s.75 
CCA. 
But, if GE Money can show that the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out 
in the LA, it is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should 
make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs W may have to 
bring these claims has expired under the LA as thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably by turning down 
Mr and Mrs Ws claims.
A claim in court for misrepresentation against Business C would ordinarily be brought 
under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of 
Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 
LA or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
As Mr and Mrs W made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 
LA  which,  means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued 
to make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. And in Mr and Mrs Ws case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business C or a like claim against GE Money. 
So, I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare i.e.in 
August 2005 as it was at that time that they entered into the agreement based, they say, on 
the misrepresentations of Business C. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a 
loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in August 2005. And it was 
from then that Mr and Mrs W had six years make a claim. But as they didnt try to contact 
GE Money about their claim until September 2018, which was outside of the time limits 
set out in the LA, I think GE Money acted fairly and reasonably by turning down Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim for misrepresentation.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act 
sets out what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies to. In short, if a credit agreement 
had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in 
respect of that credit agreement.
GE Money cant provide much evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ws loan ended as it doesnt 
have records that go that far back. Im not surprised by that as there is no requirement for 
GE Money to keep records indefinitely. I note that the loan was taken out in August 2005 
and set to run for 15 years. So, I think its likely to have been in place after 6 April 2008. But 
based on the evidence Ive seen, and bearing in mind how long businesses tend to keep 
records for, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs Ws credit agreement ended at 
least six years prior to the point at which they made their claim.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. And it was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that, when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim 
was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as Mr and Mrs W only made their claim 
in February 2018, I think they are likely to have made their claim too late.
GE Money didnt consider any s.140A CCA claim and I think it should have done, so I cant 
say it acted fairly by not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it needs 
to do anything further.
Commission 
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs W say about the amount of commission that 
might have been paid by GE Money to Business C for arranging the loan. They think GE 
Money should have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if 
anything, was paid in Mr and Mrs Ws case due to the passage of time.
Im satisfied that, had such a payment been made, GE Money wouldnt have breached 
any duty by making it  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of 
commission paid in these circumstances. And from what Ive seen across the industry, if 
commission was ever paid it tended to be low and often less than 10%. So, for that 
reason, I think its unlikely that the levels of commission  normally paid in this situation 
were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated that not 
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs W risked the relationship being unfair under 
section 140A.GE Moneys offer for delays
In its final response letter to Mr and Mrs W I can see GE Money has offered them £25 in 
recognition of the delay they experienced whilst GE Money was looking into their 
complaint. This seems to be a fair offer to reflect the inconvenience caused by the delay. 
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr 
and Mrs W may have against Business C or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as 
far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs W might have 
against the GE Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. 
I think it was reasonable of GE Money to take this into account given the circumstances. 
And for that reason, I am not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining the claims in question.
Unaffordable lending
I can see the adjudicator has looked at the affordability points made by Mr and Mrs Ws 
representatives. Looking at the dates when the credit was arranged, I dont think our service 
is able to comment on this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
I say this because the loan was taken in April 2005, and we are unable to consider lending 
decisions made about restricted credit prior to 6 April 2007. So, I havent looked into this 
aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman