DRN-3548880
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed his accounts after he 
raised a complaint in branch. He feels he has been subjected to discrimination.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. I issued my provisional decision on 24 May 2022 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I originally issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2022, outlining my intentions to uphold 
the complaint and allowing time for both parties to provide further information.
Mr G has provided further information. However, having considered the points and further 
evidence he has provided, I am still of the opinion that the further points he has raised needs 
to be considered under a separate reference. As such, I have asked our investigator to 
arrange for this to happen.
Nationwide has also provided further information. Having reviewed the evidence, it has 
provided; my provisional findings have changed. I will explain why.
In my previous provisional decision, I said that Mr G thinks Nationwide has closed his 
accounts unfairly and he believes it was discriminating against him on sectarian grounds. I 
explained that its not my role to decide if the Equality Act has been breached as thats for a 
court to decide. However, I went on to consider whether Mr G was treated fairly when 
Nationwide closed his accounts.
Nationwide has said that it took the decision to close Mr Gs accounts after he visited branch 
and was unhappy being served by a particular member of staff. It said Mr G became 
aggressive and intimidating towards staff and this is not the first time this has happened. It 
went on to explain its decision to close Mr Gs accounts was a result of his conduct over a 
longer period of time, rather than one particular incident.
I considered the terms and conditions of all accounts involved and I am satisfied they allow
Nationwide to close any account immediately if it believes a customer has been abusive or
threatening towards staff members. But Nationwides version of events (including the staff
members testimony) contradicts Mr Gs; and there has been no CCTV footage provided.
When this happens, I have to make a finding based on what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
I explained that in order to do that, I had asked Nationwide to provide further information
about Mr Gs behaviour over time, to help understand the experience he has had - and to
consider if his behaviour had been addressed in any complaint responses issued previously.
At the time of me issuing my previous provisional findings Nationwide didnt provide any 
information relating to this. A such I said, as I couldnt see any notes regarding his behaviour 
being threatening or abusive and the fact Nationwide said it didnt base its decision to close 
Mr Gs accounts (for abusive and threatening behaviour) on one incident, but rather his 
behaviour over a long period of time, I would have expected there to be recorded evidence 
in its system notes accurately reflecting Mr Gs behaviour. Especially given the fact 
Nationwide has gone on to rely on it.
However, since then, Nationwide has provided further evidence for me to consider. It has 
provided system notes dating back to 2018 to evidence that on one occasion prior to Mr Gs 
accounts being closed there was a note to say Mr G had acted inappropriately and his 
behaviour was unacceptable towards its staff members.
Nationwide has also said that several of its staff members now feel uncomfortable to serve 
Mr G due to his threatening and abusive conduct. Again, in my provisional findings I 
explained there was no record of this. I went on to say that this service does not condone 
any customer acting in an aggressive or abusive manner. And if a consumer does act in this 
way, I think it is reasonable for a business, in this case Nationwide, to act in accordance with 
its terms and conditions and close an account with immediate effect and follow any security 
processes it has in place.
At that point Nationwide hadnt provided any evidence to show that its own internal security 
policy had been followed. So, I came to the conclusion that due to the distress and 
inconvenience immediate account closure causes, its only fair to expect a business to be 
able to evidence the reasons why it felt it was necessary to take such a drastic course of 
action. And given the allegations that have been made against Mr G I think its reasonable to 
conclude some formal record should have been kept.
However, Nationwide has now provided evidence to show it did follow its own internal policy 
when a customer demonstrates behaviour which it deems to be threatening towards staff 
members alongside staff testimony. Originally, I made the provisional finding that due to the 
lack of evidence provided regarding Mr Gs visits to branch I didnt think there is enough 
evidence to conclude Mr G was threatening or abusive. As such, I didnt think Nationwide 
acted fairly relying on its terms and conditions under immediate account closure. 
However, given the new evidence provided, my position has changed. I am satisfied that   
Mr G had been told about his behaviour in branch prior to his account closure. I am also 
satisfied that Nationwides member of staff felt threatened and as such, followed 
Nationwides security policy at the time the incident occurred. Therefore, I am satisfied 
Nationwide had enough evidence to support its decision to close Mr Gs accounts with 
immediate effect. Although, I note Mr G was told his accounts would be closed on 14 
September 2020, but he was actually given until 15 October 2020.
Ive also considered both parties version of events and as I outlined in my previous 
provisional findings, I am satisfied the banking relationship had broken down. Mr G was 
clearly unhappy with the level of service he was receiving. Therefore, I think it is likely that 
Nationwide would have made a commercial decision to end its banking relationship with Mr 
G in any event, which it is entitled to do under its terms and conditions.
Originally, I had reached the provisional findings that Nationwide should pay Mr G £150 for 
the distress and upset it had caused by closing his account with little notice. However, in 
light of the new evidence provided; I cant reasonably conclude that Nationwide acted 
unfairly by relying on the terms and conditions to close an account immediately. As such, I 
cant say it did anything wrong. In fact, Nationwide gave Mr G further time to sort his financial 
affairs out. And while Mr G says his accounts were closed due to discrimination, I havent seen anything to persuade me this was the case. Therefore, I wont be asking Nationwide to 
do anything further.
I know my provisional findings will disappoint Mr G, but based on the evidence Nationwide 
has submitted, I cant conclude it acted unfairly. I understand Mr G feels strongly about the 
points he has raised and the further evidence he has submitted. But again, this doesnt fall 
part of this decision and will be considered under a separate case reference.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepted my provisional findings. But Mr G remained unhappy. He felt that 
Nationwide should have provided the evidence (it submitted more recently) at the outset. As 
such he feels the evidence edit submitted wasnt reliable. He has also questioned why 
Nationwide didnt communicate with him previously that his behaviour was unreasonable.
I understand Mr Gs frustrations in relation to Nationwide submitting the supporting evidence 
later in the investigations. But as I explained in my provisional findings, the evidence it 
submitted was from its historic system notes. As such, on balance I am persuaded they are 
an accurate reflection of what occurred. And while there hasnt been any evidence provided 
in terms of a letter sent to Mr G informing him that his behaviour was unreasonable, 
Nationwide has said it had told him previously in branch and this is consistent with the 
evidence submitted. 
So, while I appreciate Mr G will remain unhappy my provisional findings issued on 24 May 
2022, remain the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman