DRN-3841859
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical (SW) gave him 
incorrect information about his pension and retirement choices and wouldnt let him defer his 
retirement date.
What happened
Mr B said he contacted SW by letter on 22 March 2021 and asked if he could defer his 
retirement date for his section 32 Buy-out policy. SW replied but made no mention of this 
being impossible. It said in its letter of 10 June 2021 that he could defer for a year then 
another year and after five years his retirement date would be set at 75. SW wrote again on 
9 July 2021 to say he could change his retirement date. He phoned SW on 6 August 2021 to 
say he wanted to defer his retirement date and was told he could. He then received a call 
back about 15 minutes later to say this was not possible as there was a trustee named on 
the policy. His policy would now have a new retirement date of age 75. He was told forms to 
remove the trustee could be sent and he needed to arrange for them to be signed. No forms 
arrived so he chased on 27 August 2021 and was told the forms would arrive by 3 
September 2021 and he couldnt do anything without the removal of the trustee. He phoned 
back again on 27 August and didnt mentioned deferring his retirement date just asked how 
to obtain his pension having been told this was not possible without transferring. He was 
amazed when he was allowed to do this so decided to go ahead. Mr B pointed out there was 
a trustee but told this wasnt a problem as the pension was not in trust.. By this time he just 
wanted to get his pension and asked for a £5,000 taxable lump sum and was told it would be 
in his bank account by 13 September 2021.
SW apologised that it didnt respond to Mr Bs letters of 22 March and 31 March 2021 and 
offered £75.00. However it didnt pay this and later had to increase this to £150.00 and paid 
it to Mr B. It also apologised that replies sent in July 2021 contradicted previous information. 
It later said it was sorry it failed to provide correct information and for the concern worry and 
delays caused. It sent £200. It also applied 8% interest for the delay in paying his funds after 
the call on 27 August 2021. The delay was due to incorrect information provided on 8 August 
2021. It paid net interest (after tax) of £22.68.It included £23 for cost of calls. 
It confirmed the information provided in the call on 6 August and repeated on 27 August 
was wrong. It said the trustee instruction related only to his death and had no impact on 
the options for claiming his pension. It said its letters of 10 June 2021 and 9 July 2021 did 
confirm that he could defer the selected retirement date and made no mention of the 
policy being in trust. The letters were correct. With respect to the retirement date of 75 its 
letter made clear that benefits could be taken earlier. It said the £5,000 encashment 
should have been paid within 10 working days but was delayed until 17 September 2021 
and it added interest as above.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following:-
SW accepted that it caused delay and gave incorrect information. I could therefore focus on
considering an award for financial loss and distress and inconvenience arising from that.
An award for financial loss was intended to put Mr B back as closely as possible to the 
position he would have been in but for the mistake. I noted that Mr B says he would have 
deferred his pension and not taken any until July 2022. But I noted also that he said had the 
options been explained he would have taken flexible drawdown.
I had seen a copy of the letter from SW 9 July 2021 this said
Change of retirement date
It is allowable to defer your benefits to a later date, up to a maximum of age 75. A deferred 
retirement date should be a minimum of one year after the current retirement date, although 
benefits could subsequently be taken earlier. There would be no additional charge for 
deferment and you would not lose any guarantee, bonus or benefit. The accrued fund would 
remain invested so could go down as well as up.
Flexible Access
It is not allowable to take the 25% tax-free cash on its own, with the intention of taking further 
lump sums. You may take partial encashments, but only 25% of the amount encashed would 
be tax-free, with the remainder paid net of tax. You may also take a full encashment, with 
25% tax-free and the rest subject to tax. If you wish to convert it to Income Drawdown you 
will need to transfer out as this is not available under this arrangement.
I thought the letter was clear that Mr. B could defer his retirement date and had options 
regarding drawing his pension. However, I noted that in a subsequent call he was told 
something different and that the presence of a trustee would affect his choices.
I had also listened to some calls. I didnt have copies of all the calls, but I didnt think I 
needed to. I said that as I had copies of the calls where the presence of a trustee is said to 
be a problem and the call when Mr. B decides to take his benefits
I had listened to a call where Mr. B asks about deferring retirement. He asked about the 
advantages of delaying for one-year versus going straight to 75. He says he was told in early 
August that he cannot proceed as the policy is in trust and he cannot defer by a year as it is 
too close to his retirement date. He asked why he needs to remove the trustee if he can get 
access anyway. SW says he needs the trustee authority to make any changes.
Mr. B asks for confirmation he cannot make changes without the trustee giving permission or 
being removed. SW confirms yes that is correct. Mr. B says this is going to cause 
horrendous problems and how is he going to get access to these funds. He asks if it is him 
that must get the trustee removed and is told it is. He also asks SW to confirm that in the 
event of his death the money goes to his sons, but SW isnt able to confirm that.
I could understand that Mr. B would not have left the call with a clear understanding of the 
impact of having a trustee but feeling that it was a significant problem. I could also 
understand that he would have been left uncertain whether death benefits were nominated 
to his sons. I could imagine this was very concerning for Mr. B as the trustee was his ex-
wife.
I had listened to a later call recording with Mr. B where he decided to take partial 
encashment. He opened the call by saying he is looking to access the funds he did not mention deferring retirement. The SW staff member asks if he wants some or all and Mr. B 
replies some, initially suggesting around £3,000. SW reply that the minimum is £5,000 but 
before proceeding SW says it needs to take him through his options.
Mr. B is informed of his options including that he could take all or take 25% tax free cash and 
transfer the rest into an annuity or flexible access drawdown. Mr. B asked for confirmation he 
can take small lump sums without transfer and SW confirms yes but if he transfers, he can 
take 25% cash tax free. Mr. B says he wants to take without transfer and SW confirm this is 
partial encashment and asks him to confirm that he wants £5,000 gross.
Mr. B referred to a call earlier that morning where he was told something different due to 
there being a trustee. SW then double check the position re a trustee and confirm this does 
not affect his choice.
Mr. B is asked to confirm he received the information sent in July. He confirms he has and 
says he was initially thinking of flexible access drawdown but thinks he will need most of 
the cash over the next two to three years so is going to do partial encashment instead. He 
is asked if he wants more time to get more information (noting he had not spoken to 
Pension Wise or taken financial advice in July) or is he happy to proceed. He confirms he 
is happy to proceed today.
SW confirms cashing in part of the pension is a final decision so cannot be cancelled or 
changed and refers to the money purchase annual allowance. Before Mr. B gives final 
confirmation, he also checks the number of partial encashments in a year and is told it is 
one per month and 12 per year.
Mr. B closes by saying he is happy as other calls suggested he would have difficulty due 
to the policy being in trust.
Having listened to the calls I think Mr. B was informed of his options including flexible 
drawdown before he decided to proceed with partial encashment. It was clear that the 
trustee was not an issue that prevents any of the options. While I accepted SW didnt say 
ignore all that has been said before I didnt think it needed to as it was clear the trustee 
did not cause a problem.
I noted also that Mr. B said all he wanted to do was defer but he also said that had 
drawdown been an option he would have taken that. He was offered that option on the call 
but rejects it and explains why (he will want most of the money over the next 2 to 3 years).
So even if his original intention was deferment, I thought that by the time of the call his 
view had changed, and he wanted some money. Although Mr. B may not recall that 
options were put to him at the time, based on the call I think that options were presented 
(including taking 25% tax free and putting the rest into flexible drawdown). Mr. B seemed 
keen to avoid transferring the policy. Given that the options were explained and he 
explained why he wants the option he had selected and was given the options to take 
more time and take advice if he wished, I thought Mr. B was in the position he wanted to 
be in, which is partial encashment.
I noted that while there was a delay in paying out the around £5,000, SW paid interest for 
the late payment (which is what I would have awarded had SW not already done so). So, 
it does not seem that Mr. B suffered any other financial loss due to the delay and had 
been paid an amount to cover the cost of his telephone calls. 
So, I was not considering a further award for financial loss but would consider an award 
for distress and inconvenience.An award for distress and inconvenience is intended to reflect the impact of the 
mistake(s) on Mr. B not to punish SW for its errors.
It was clear that Mr. B was given confusing information over a period and put to the 
trouble of writing letters and making telephone calls. He said he was very angry and 
upset by what happened. I could see that at time SW promised to put things in writing 
e.g. in early August but then failed to do so. Having listened to the telephone calls and 
read letters written over a period of months I can understand this would have been 
frustrating for Mr. B.
I also note the trustee he was told needed to be removed, was his ex-wife and Mr. B said he 
had no idea whether she would co-operate in her removal as trustee, as there was no benefit 
to her. I can see that this would have been worrying causing concern and stress. He was told 
that he would need to make the arrangements for removal as SW didnt have any details of 
the trustee. If this failed SW would need to take legal advice about how to remove the trustee 
or to see if there was any other around this problem. I think this information must have been 
very worrying and the fact it then didnt send him written information quickly meant that the 
impact was drawn out over a period of weeks. Mr. B was left thinking there was a lot to do to 
get at his pension and a significant barrier in the way that he could not guarantee to resolve 
as it was outside of his control.
We all experience frustration and annoyance in day to day life but I think the inconvenience 
caused to Mr. B was much greater than this and took place over a period of months and 
incorrect information was repeated on more than one occasion. The repeated information 
was wrong and wasnt followed up in writing promptly and was clearly causing stress due to 
the identity of the trustee and inability to be certain she would co-operate at all. I can 
understand that Mr. B was angry about this. I think the impact was considerable.
For all those reasons I think an award of £750 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the avoidance of doubt SW need only pay such further amount as is required to increase 
the payment to £750. The amount paid for interest on the delayed payment and cost of calls 
are payment for financial loss so should not be deducted from the £750 payment.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Scottish Widows Limited trading as 
Clerical Medical should pay Mr. B a total of £750 for distress and inconvenience (to the 
extent that it has not already done so).
Mr B didnt agree. He said SW had caused him a lot of distress with many hours dealing with 
his pension. None of this should have happened. He was disappointed that the total award 
should be £750 rather than an additional amount, given all that happened and the fact they 
didnt reply on many occasions without him chasing them but respected my view. He said he 
thought he had already received £150 and £200 so assumed he would receive a further 
£300. He hoped he would not have to chase payment of the final amount.
SW said it was in overall agreement with my provisional decision but felt £750 was 
excessive based on the information it had available and the financial impact of the errors. It 
agreed to make the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what both parties have said. In reaching my provisional decision I did consider the time Mr B had to take chasing SW on more than one occasion.
I have not stipulated that the final payment for distress and inconvenience is now £400 as 
the amount of the payments to date is a matter of fact and I wish to ensure the total payment 
to Mr B for distress and inconvenience is £750 (disregarding the amounts paid for telephone 
call costs and interest for late payment). 
I have not changed my mind and remain of the view that £750 is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that Scottish Widows Limited (trading as Clerical Medical) should within 30 days of 
this service notifying it that Mr. B has accepted this decision, pay Mr. B a total of £750 for 
distress and inconvenience (to the extent that it has not already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman