DRN-2122369
The complaint
Mr D complains as a director of G, a limited company, that HSBC Life (UK) Limited would
not consider a critical illness claim for one of the companys other directors, Mrs D, and that
it provided G with incorrect information about its cover.
What happened
In 2006 G applied for a business protection life and critical illness term assurance policy with
HSBC for Mrs D. The policy was sold to G on an advised basis. However, because of
Mrs Ds medical history, HSBC offered Mrs D life assurance only - postponing critical illness
cover for 12 months.
In 2013 G was reviewing its company policies and it asked HSBC to send it details of the
term assurance policies it held. The documentation HSBC sent stated G had both life and
critical illness cover for Mrs D.
Sadly, Mrs D was later diagnosed with breast cancer and couldnt work. So, in 2019 G
contacted HSBC to discuss its cover. HSBC told G it didnt have critical illness cover for
Mrs D.
G then complained to HSBC. In response, HSBC acknowledged it had made a mistake in
2013 and provided documentation that said Mrs D had critical illness cover when she did
not. It apologised for this error and offered G £1000. But HSBC said it couldnt accept the
claim as Mrs D never had critical illness cover and this was reflected in the premiums G
paid. HSBC also noted the terms agreed back in 2006 clearly stated critical illness cover was
not included and all other correspondence it had sent had made this clear.
HSBC noted that it had sent annual policy statements to G, although G said these hadnt
been received. HSBC said these went to the address given when G took out the policy until
2012  the original address. But in 2012 the annual policy statement was returned as
undelivered. So, HSBC reviewed its records and noted Gs banking account statements
were sent to another address, the banking address. Between 2012 and 2018 HSBC sent
the annual policy statements there. From 2019 onwards, HSBC then used Gs new address
for the annual policy statements. HSBC has since confirmed with G that the address it
corresponded with between 2012 and 2018 was the address of Gs financial director.
G remained unhappy so it brought its concerns to our service. G said it had been told critical
illness cover had been postponed for 12 months, after which it expected the cover to have
been added. G noted that in 2013 it received documents confirming this cover was in place.
G said if it had known it didnt have this cover for Mrs D, it would have sought this elsewhere.
G noted it had obtained a quotation for critical illness cover with another insurer at this time,
but due to the considerably higher cost it remained with HSBC. Mr D also told us G hadnt
received any annual policy statements until 2020.
Our investigator looked into things and was of the opinion that HSBC had made mistakes in
2006/2007. But they felt the compensation already offered by HSBC was fair and didnt think
it needed to consider the claim. And thats because, after reviewing the relevant underwriting
criteria, they felt HSBC would have excluded cancer from any critical illness cover it offered
G for Mrs D. G disagreed with their findings, so the matters been passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I asked HSBC for more information about what would have
happened if G had reapplied for critical illness cover for Mrs D in 2013. HSBC told me it
would have offered cover but it would have charged a higher premium and excluded all
claims arising from breast cancer.
G told us it had obtained a quote for critical illness cover for Mrs D in 2013 with another
provider. Mr D recalled the premium cost was quoted as about £200 a month and so G
decided to remain with HSBC as it thought it had equivalent cover at a much cheaper price.
G maintained that had it known it didnt have this cover, it would have sought this elsewhere.
I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the investigator. So, I shared my 
provisional findings with HSBC and G so both had the opportunity to make any comments or 
provide further evidence. My provisional findings were:
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say that Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ds poor health and the difficulties this has
created personally, for her family and for G as a business. Ive read the email shes sent our
service and I can see this has had a significant impact on her life.
I think it would help to explain that my role here is to consider whether HSBC has acted
reasonably, and if it hasnt, to put G back into the position it would have been in had HSBC
not made mistakes. And whilst I have natural sympathy for the distress experienced by
Mrs D and the other directors, this isnt something I can consider awarding compensation
for, because this complaint has been brought by the limited company G. Its also not our
services role to punish businesses for errors.
As an aside - I understand G also complained to HSBC about the initial sale of the policy.
But this wasnt something G asked our service to look into. Similarly, G has also said it has
concerns over the decision to postpone Mrs Ds cover in 2006. But this wasnt something
that it had yet raised with HSBC. So, in this decision, I will only be looking into HSBCs
decision to decline the claim and the information HSBC provided to G about the policy
covering Mrs D.
The claim
HSBC declined the claim because Mrs D didnt have critical illness cover and I think this is
reasonable. This cover was never actually in place and the premiums G paid throughout the
policy reflected this.
But G told us Mrs D would have been covered if HSBC hadnt made mistakes. So, Ive
looked at Gs concerns to consider if mistakes were made and, if so, what I think would have
happened if HSBC hadnt made any errors.
Information provided about the process of deferment
Its clear that in 2006 G wasnt granted critical illness cover for Mrs D. G was sent an email
from HSBC which said:Just to update you re this case, the reassurers have postponed CI [critical illness] 1 yr which
is better than expected, I had thought they might decline in view of the medical problem we
discussed.
The HSBC advisor then asked G: Do you still want to go ahead with the life cover only and
then the critical illness will be reviewed again in 12 months.
And G told us that based on this it thought the critical illness cover would be granted
automatically after 12 months. But HSBC has said it would have been down to G to reapply
after 12 months.
Ive thought about whether HSBC was sufficiently clear here and I dont think it was.
Ive seen no evidence that G was told that it needed to reapply after 12 months. And where a
business tells a consumer that something will be reviewed in 12 months, I think its
reasonable for the consumer to assume the business will take the lead and start the review
process.
Im aware G was then sent policy documentation clearly outlining that critical illness cover
had been declined. And this documentation was signed and returned by G. But I dont think
that G had reason to believe the decline of critical illness in the official documentation meant
that its inclusion wouldnt be reviewed in 12 months time as per the email. Its lack of
inclusion is what G had been told to expect at this stage, so I also wouldnt have expected G
to query this at this time. So, Im not persuaded by HSBCs arguments here.
But whilst I think it was fair for G to assume HSBC would carry out a review after 12 months,
I dont think it was reasonable for G to assume the critical illness cover was then
automatically granted. The email it received from HSBC did use the term postpone which
could suggest this cover would be granted, but it also used the term review which indicates
HSBC would be considering if it could offer cover. I also think the costs G was paying after
12 months were such that it ought to have known this cover hadnt then been granted. I say
this as G was originally quoted a monthly premium of around £150 per month for life and
critical illness cover. However, when life cover only was offered it paid just under £50.
And after 12 months, at the time the critical illness cover ought to have been reviewed, its
premiums increased by just £3 a month. For these reasons, I dont think it was reasonable
for G to have presumed that critical illness cover had been added to the policy. And had G
queried or questioned this with HSBC, it would have then had an opportunity to reapply for
this.
So, whilst I dont think HSBCs communications were clear in relation to the review, Im
satisfied it wasnt responsible for G assuming Mrs G had critical illness cover after 12
months.
The 2013 policy summary
In 2013 G was reviewing its cover and asked HSBC for details of its policy. HSBC then sent
G documentation which said critical illness cover was in place for Mrs D when it wasnt.
Its clear HSBC made an error here. So, Ive thought about the impact of this error on G.
G told us that because of this mistake it wasnt aware Mrs D didnt have critical illness cover.
I think it was fair of G to expect the policy summary HSBC sent to be accurate, even taking
into account the lower premiums it was paying. I say this noting it had been six years since
the original quotations were given.
HSBC told us this error should be considered against all of the annual statements it sent G
which clearly showed Mrs D didnt have critical illness cover. HSBC implied G ought to haveknown from these statements that it didnt have critical illness cover. But G told us it didnt
receive any policy statements from HSBC until 2020  so Ive thought about whether the
statements are relevant here.
I dont think it matters what statements G received before the policy summary was sent in
2013. And thats because I think its reasonable for G to expect the summary it specifically
requested for the purposes of its review to be accurate. I wouldnt expect it to cross-
reference this summary with previous statements HSBC sent. And the very fact it requested
this document suggests G didnt have a recent annual statement readily available.
So, theres nothing to indicate G realised there was a discrepancy here.
After this, the next five annual statements HSBC sent to G, between 2014 and 2018, were
sent to the banking address. Ive thought about whether its more likely than not G received
these and had cause to question its cover during this time. HSBC said it found the banking
address in its records for G. G have confirmed the banking address was the address of its
financial director, but it said the address was only used until 2010. G said the director then
moved house in early 2013. G has also shown me an email it sent HSBC in 2009 notifying it
of Gs move to the new address. HSBC have shown me its response which advised G it
needed to provide written confirmation of this address. It isnt known if this was then done.
Taking all of this into account, I think its likely HSBC sent the statements to an out of date
address and G didnt receive these. Given G went to the trouble of emailing HSBC, on
balance, I think its likely G took appropriate steps to notify HSBC of this move, such that its
actions here didnt cause or contribute to the error. So, I dont think G knew or ought to have
known in 2013, when HSBC sent the policy summary, that it didnt have the cover outlined in
the summary.
Ive then considered what would most likely have happened, had HSBC not sent an
inaccurate policy summary in 2013. Given G was carrying out a review of its policies, I think
it would have realised it didnt have critical illness cover for Mrs D. And G has told us it would
have then applied for this cover.
I think its most likely that G would have started by trying to obtain this cover with HSBC.
I say this given it had originally applied for critical illness cover for Mrs D and it had been told
this was something HSBC might have offered.
But HSBC has provided evidence to show that whilst it would have offered critical illness
cover for Mrs D in 2013, it would have added an exclusion in relation to breast cancer.
And this is because of Mrs Ds medical history. So, even if G had taken out a critical illness
policy with HSBC for Mrs D in 2013, it still wouldnt have been able to claim for Mrs Ds
breast cancer diagnosis.
In response G has told us it would have applied for critical illness cover elsewhere. But Im
not persuaded that better cover would have been available with another insurer  Ill explain
why.
I appreciate G told me it was offered critical illness cover for Mrs D by another business in
2013. But its been unable to provide me with any evidence to support this. Even if I
accepted Gs account that a quote was obtained, I dont know if the other business had
access to details of Mrs Ds medical history when it provided this quote, nor do I know
whether it would have added any exclusions to the cover. And, having seen Mrs Ds medical
history, I think its unlikely G would have been able to obtain cover on different terms than
those that would have been offered by HSBC.
So Im satisfied that even if HSBC hadnt made this mistake, I dont think G realising it didnthave critical illness cover for Mrs D in 2013 would have led to Mrs Ds illness being covered.
Had G reapplied for cover with HSBC it would have charged G higher premiums and would
never have covered Mrs D for the breast cancer she later developed. And I havent seen
anything that persuades me another insurer would have acted differently.
Taking everything into account, I think the claim was fairly declined. Whilst its clear that
HSBC made mistakes in its communications with G, Ive seen no evidence to suggest this
caused G any loss. Im aware that HSBC has offered G £1000 compensation for the errors.
And I think this fairly accounts for the inconvenience caused to the limited company G.
Response to my provisional findings
HSBC had nothing further to add. 
G made the following observations:
The review should have taken place in 2007 and at this time Mrs D had no underlying 
illnesses, so there would have been no reason for cover not be offered. 
The documentation it received in 2013 led it to believe Mrs D had critical illness 
cover. 
It was unsure why HSBC would have excluded breast cancer in 2013, given Mrs D 
wasnt diagnosed with this until 2019.
It feels it has been punished and has suffered for HSBCs errors. The offer of £1000 
was an insult to both G and Mrs D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional points G has made. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded to change my provisional findings.
For the reasons outlined above, whilst I agree HSBC wasnt clear about the review in 2007, I 
dont think it was ultimately responsible for the fact this didnt take place.
I also accept that HSBC gave G incorrect information about its cover in 2013. But I dont 
think sending G the correct information would have changed anything. I cannot share 
HSBCs underwriting material with G, as its commercially sensitive information. But having 
reviewed the information HSBC has sent me, Im satisfied it would have excluded breast 
cancer had G reapplied for critical illness cover for Mrs D in 2013. This is despite the fact 
Mrs D hadnt been diagnosed with this illness at that time. Ive also seen no evidence to 
persuade me Mrs D would have obtained this cover elsewhere.
Based on the evidence available, I cant see that G has lost out as a result of HSBCs errors. 
But I recognise it has been inconvenienced. Whilst the compensation offered doesnt take 
into account the emotional impact on Mrs D and her family, I cannot make any award for this 
because the complaint has been brought by the business G. It is of course up to G whether it 
wishes to accept the £1000 HSBC has offered for the inconvenience caused.
My final decisionMy final decision is that HSBC Life (UK) Limited should pay G the £1000 offered, if it has not 
already done so. I do not think it needs to do anything further here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman