DRN-3169460
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a credit card in 1999. Mr W alleged that MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
  
What happened
Im very sorry that Mr W has had to wait so long for his complaint to reach this stage. 
One of our adjudicators assessed this complaint and provided a view that it should be 
upheld. MBNA disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in full. 
Mr Ws credit card account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet and sent in by 
post. I acknowledge its likely he selected the PPI to be added to his card account when he 
did this. However, the issue here is that this was a very poor value policy, in my view. The 
PPI in question offered to pay only 3% of the account holders outstanding monthly balance 
in the event of a successful claim. This compares unfavourably with many other types of 
credit card PPI Ive seen, which typically offer to pay much higher percentages off the 
balance.
From our experience of these MBNA application forms did not explain this issue well and so 
even though Mr W asked for the PPI, he did so without having been given information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading.
This sale was a long time ago and I dont expect Mr W to provide proof about the benefits he 
would have enjoyed with his job at the time. However, looking at what he did, its reasonable 
for me to assume he would have had at least moderate sickness protection, commensurate 
with his role and position. MBNA seems to accept he would have had sick pay, but it 
questions how generous it might have been. I note MBNA offered this opinion without any 
supporting evidence.
In short, MBNA failed to point out important information during this sale. But if it had told Mr 
W about the main costs and benefits of the PPI policy, I think he would have considered it 
very poor value for money. I think he would have decided not to buy it. I say this because of 
the other benefits he most likely had and he was only in his twenties  given his situation, he 
would have made a different decision.
Im therefore upholding the complaint. MBNA failed in its duty to provide all the information 
Mr W ought to have been given.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. It should find out how much Mr W would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Mr W owes and what he 
would have owed. If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can 
take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If when MBNA works out what Mr W would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
W paid more than enough to clear his balance, MBNA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr W wouldve owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. MBNA should tell Mr W what its done to work out A and B. 
D. If MBNA has already paid any of the commission element back, it can deduct this 
from the compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in full and I direct MBNA Limited to 
pay the compensation Ive mentioned above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman