DRN-2944880
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021 that I summarise below.
Mr F was given three logbook loans by Loans2Go between 2013 to 2015. The loans were 
secured each time against a vehicle that he owned.
Loan 1 in December 2013 was for £1, 200 repayable in 18 monthly instalments of 
around £205. The total amount payable if the loan ran to term, including interest, was 
just over £3,489.
Loan 2 of £1,713 was taken around four months later in March 2014, repayable in 24 
monthly instalments of around £240. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to 
term, including interest, was just over £5,783.
Loan 3, taken in July 2015 was for £2,700 repayable in 36 monthly instalments of 
around £345. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to term, including interest was 
just over £12,420.
I understand the final loan account was closed in 2016.
Loans2Go thought that too much time had passed for the complaint about the first two loans 
to be considered. But following an ombudsmans decision that this Service could look into 
the matter, an adjudicator looked into the complaint. Loans2Go didnt agree with 
adjudicators assessment but provided further information about the first two loans which I 
reviewed in coming to my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in 
particular the checks that Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr F 
irresponsibly. And that Loans2Go had to carry out proportionate checks each time to satisfy 
itself that he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. 
Loans to Go says it checked Mr Fs income and expenditure before each loan. It says it also 
carried out credit checks and gathered a variety of information about Mr Fs financial 
circumstances including information about income from his employment and his pensions 
and copies of his bank statements.
Loan 1
Loans2Go says that Mr F had sufficient disposable income to repay the first loan.
Loans2Go was aware from its checks that Mr F was taking payday loans and he had credit 
card commitments and an outstanding County Court Judgment (CCJ). But there is limited 
information about the circumstances of this loan, and I hadnt seen enough evidence for me 
to fairly say that I thought it was unreasonable for Loans2Go to provide the first loan to Mr F. 
So I said I didnt intend upholding his complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
From what Id seen, about four months into the 18-month term for loan 1, Mr F returned to 
Loans2Go and re-financed his loan with further lending. This time he took a loan that was 
repayable over a longer period, with higher monthly payments and for an increased total 
cost. Loans2Go may have assessed that, on the face of it, the loan was affordable for Mr F. 
But I thought that Loans2Go focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for 
Mr F on a pounds and pence basis. 
As Id already explained, the lender was required to establish whether the borrower could 
sustainably meet his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on 
this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it 
doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define 
sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing 
problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I thought Loans2Go was aware from the information that it had gathered that Mr F was 
continuing to repay payday lenders, credit cards and collections and had returned to 
refinance his loan just four months into an 18-month term. Loans2Go says that Mr F was 
managing to meet his credit repayments, that he repaid his debt without difficulty and did not 
signal that he was experiencing any financial difficulties. But at the time Loans2Go provided 
the second loan to Mr F, just a short time after providing the first loan, I thought it ought to 
have been aware that he was committing a significant proportion of his monthly income to 
service his debt  and it ought reasonably to have realised that this put Mr F at risk of 
experiencing significant financial difficulties. Overall, I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably 
to have realised that this consumer was already struggling financially and that he was most 
likely borrowing in order to maintain his financial commitments. I didnt think Loans2Go 
should have provided Mr F with loan 2.
Loan 3
Mr F returned around 16 months into the 24-month term and took a further loan. Again, the 
term increased (this time to 36 months). The monthly repayments also increased 
considerably and the total amount repayable over the three years increased substantially to 
£12, 420.
I thought Loans2Go out reasonably to have realised that Mr F was continuing to experience 
difficulty managing his financial situation and he was finding it hard to get out from under his 
financial problems, returning as he did for a third high cost loan in just over 18 months. Mr F 
was already committing a considerable portion of his monthly income to repay debt. This 
was an expensive loan and Mr F had to meet the monthly repayments over an extended 
period of time. I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that by continuing to 
lend to Mr F, it was effectively increasing his indebtedness overall, and extending the period 
of time in which he was indebted. I thought the lender ought to have realised there was a real risk to Mr F that its third loan would increase his indebtedness overall to unsustainable 
levels. In these particular circumstances, I thought Loans2Go should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not appropriate to provide loan 3 to Mr F.
I hadnt seen anything which made me think that Loans2Go treated Mr F unfairly in any other 
way. But I didnt think it should have provided loans 2 or 3 to him. 
I asked both parties to send me anything further they would like me to consider. I havent 
seen new evidence from either Mr F or Loans2Go. The deadline for further comments has 
now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I dont think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have provided the second and third loans to Mr 
F. So Loans2Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr F to have repaid the principal amount that he borrowed 
with loans 2 and 3, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and 
charges on two loans that shouldnt have been provided to him.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F didnt repay these loans or that his car was 
repossessed by the lender. However, if Loans2Go sold any outstanding debt payable in 
respect of Mr Fs loans, it should buy it back from the third party, if its able to do so, and 
then take the following steps. If Loans2Go isnt able to buy any outstanding debt back then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Loans2Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from Loans 2 and 3 and treat all the payments 
Mr F made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Fs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans2Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans2Go 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Loans2Go might have already returned the logbooks to Mr F, but if it has not done 
this, it should cancel the bills of sale and return the V5 document to him once any 
outstanding capital has been repaid.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited 
to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman