DRN-4172349
The complaint
Ms L complains about how MS Amlin Insurance SE handled her claim on he property 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms L owns a flat that she rents out to tenants. She has insurance for the flat thats 
underwritten by MS Amlin. In November 2022 she made a claim after there was a water leak 
from the flat above hers, that caused damage to her property. 
MS Amlin accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to assess it. However it took 
some time for it to arrange for the claim to progress and for repairs to begin. By January 
2022 repairs still hadnt started and Ms L made a complaint. She also didnt think it was fair 
that MS Amlin were charging three excesses for the claim.
MS Amlin upheld her complaint and accepted it had caused delays and provided poor 
service at times. It offered £250 compensation to apologise. However it continued to request 
three excesses before work could begin. 
Ms L didnt think the compensation was enough and was frustrated that the repairs still 
hadnt started. So she brought her complaint to this service.
After the complaint came to us, MS Amlin confirmed that it had agreed with its loss adjuster 
that only one excess should be charged. So it said it wouldnt be collecting three.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said he agreed only one excess should be charged but as MS Amlin had confirmed this 
is what it had agreed he thought this was fair. And he thought the compensation was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Ms L didnt agree as she thought MS Amlin had caused her and her tenants considerable 
distress and inconvenience by delaying the claim. And its loss adjuster had continued to 
request three excesses which had delayed matters further. She asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking at the correspondence and claim notes provided, I agree MS Amlin has 
provided poor service throughout this complaint. There are a number of instances when 
there has been no progress on the claim for many weeks and action has only been taken 
after Ms L has chased it. For example while the loss adjusters report was received in 
January 2023, no action was taken with it until around six weeks later. And I can see no 
reason for this delay.
Further, while MS Amlin has said that it agreed to charge only one excess, its contractor has 
continued to request three from Ms L and this has led to further delays to the work 
commencing. So I agree that MS Amlin has caused delays to the claim that could have been 
avoided. 
Ive considered the impact this has had on Ms L. Shes had to continually chase MS Amlin 
and its contractors which would have been inconvenient. And her tenants have had to live in 
a flat with dehumidifiers and water damage for around six months. And while I cant consider 
the impact on the tenants themselves, it would have been distressing for Ms L to hear about 
this.
Based on this I think the £250 compensation already offered by MS Amlin is fair and is in line 
with what I would have recommended it pay if it hadnt made an offer. I understand Ms L 
doesnt think this is enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. And I want to reassure her that in agreeing with MS Amlins offer, I am not saying 
that I dont think it got anything wrong. But just that its offer is in line with this services 
approach to other similar circumstances, so I think its done enough to put things right. 
Finally, I note that MS Amlin has now said it will only charge one excess in relation to this 
claim. However I can see there has been ongoing confusion regarding this, as its loss 
adjuster has continued to request three. I want to make clear that I am assessing this 
complaint based on its assurance that it will only charge one excess, as I think all the 
damage to be fairly considered part of one claim. I therefore expect MS Amlin to now 
proceed promptly with the necessary repairs and only collect one excess, if it hasnt done so 
already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman