DRN-3452984
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) returned a direct debit payment 
on two occasions. As a result, payment was not made to another financial business, and a 
credit marker was placed against his name. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G set up a direct debit for monthly payments to be made to C, a lender. 
Payments were taken in line with the direct debit mandate and without problem for over a 
year. 
On 16 July 2021 C requested a payment of £12.96. Mr Gs account was £1,092.34 and had 
an overdraft limit of £1,100. RBS returned the direct debit unpaid and added a fee of £2.15. 
C requested the payment again on or about 28 July 2021. No further credits had been made 
to Mr Gs account, however, and the direct debit was again returned unpaid and a further fee 
added. 
Mr G complained about what had happened. RBS agreed to refund the charges it had levied 
but said it was right to return the direct debit requests. 
Mr G referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He did not think that RBS had treated Mr G unfairly. It was for Mr G to ensure 
that there were sufficient  funds in the account to meet payments due. He thought it likely too 
that RBS had alerted Mr G to the need to make a payment to the account. He did not 
recommend that RBS take any further action. 
Mr G did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G owed money to C and had set up a direct debit instruction allowing C to request 
payments from RBS to pay what he owed each month. The terms of his account with RBS 
allowed the bank to decline payment instructions (including those requested under a direct 
debit mandate) if there were insufficient funds available. The available funds in this case 
included the overdraft facility. 
When C requested the payment due in July 2021, there were not sufficient funds available. 
Had the payment been made, Mr Gs authorised overdraft limit would have been exceeded. 
RBS was, therefore, within its rights to return the direct debit unpaid. It was, in effect, treating 
the payment request as a request to increase the overdraft facility  which it declined. 
RBS says that Mr G would have received a text message alerting him to the need to make a 
payment to his account to cover the payment requested by C. It cannot show that such a 
message was sent (because they are not kept for long enough), but I note that the account 
was set up so that Mr G would receive alerts and that he did receive alerts later. I think it 
likely that he was warned about the need to credit the account in July 2021. 
Even if I were to reach a different conclusion on the question of alerts, it was for Mr G to 
ensure that there were sufficient funds in the account to pay C. Had he done so, it is unlikely 
that C would have registered any adverse credit information against his name. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not believe that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has treated Mr G 
unfairly and I do not require it to take any further steps to resolve his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman