DRN-2836058
The complaint
Mrs Y says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Mrs Y took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go in December 2019. It was for
£500 and the monthly repayments were £114.28. The total repayable was £2057.04. I
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Mrs Y says Loans 2 Go didnt check she could afford the loan and the interest rate is too 
high - she has already paid back more than double the amount she borrowed. She says she 
had to take out payday loans to make her repayments. She took out the loan to buy 
Christmas presents.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. He said Loans 2 Go hadnt
completed proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised the loan was
most likely not sustainably affordable for Mrs Y.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying, in summary, its checks were proportionate given the results 
from Mrs Ys credit check and it had added a 10% buffer into its verified income and 
expenditure analysis which showed the loan was affordable. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mrs Y required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mrs Y. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs Y.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mrs Y. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ys loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mrs Y before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party and it says it adjusted her declared expenditure to ensure it was 
reasonable. It checked Mrs Ys credit file to understand her existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. It added a buffer of 10% to her expenditure. From these 
checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mrs Y had enough disposable income for the loan 
to be affordable.
Im not persuaded the checks were proportionate or borrower-focused. Mrs Y was applying
for a loan over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go knew that there were significant 
discrepancies between the income and expenditure Mrs Y declared and the results of its 
checks  so I think it should have completed a fuller financial review and looked to reach its 
lending decision based on actuals for Mrs Ys income and expenditure. Mrs Y was applying 
for a high-cost £500 loan yet she had declared a monthly disposable income of £1770  so I 
think there were clear signs that a more in-depth review of her finances was needed.  
I have looked at copies of Mrs Ys bank statements to see what better checks would have
shown. Im not saying Loans 2 Go needed to have done this, but its one way to understand
what a fuller financial review might have shown.
From them I can see Mrs Ys current credit commitments came to around £770 each month. 
So around 38% of her total income (taking into account her salary, benefits and the £200 
maintenance payment she received each month). She was also making monthly payments 
of £200 to a debt collections agency which I think the lender would have needed to take into 
account. Giving this loan increased the amount of Mrs Ys income she would need to 
allocate to repaying debt to about 50% - a very significant proportion of her income, and 
given the nature of her existing credit commitments these werent debts that would be repaid 
in the near-term. So I think Loans 2 Go ought to have been concerned that the loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mrs Y. And as a responsible lender Loans 2 Go 
would most likely not have made the same lending decision had it carried out better checks. 
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Mrs Y.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs Y in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mrs Y says she was unhappy with the interest rate. I 
accept it was high, but Mrs Y had to actively engage in the loan application process, so I 
think its likely that she was aware of what she was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything 
which makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Mrs Y unfairly or breached industry practice 
regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges will be refunded as 
Ive concluded this loan shouldnt have been given.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs Y to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
It seems Loans 2 Go hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mrs Y
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Ys loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 Go
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs Y, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ys credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman