DRN-2880510
The complaint
Ms D has complained that her motor insurer Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it as though it had never existed). Ms D is also 
unhappy because, despite the avoidance, Calpe settled a claim on the policy from a third 
party and then asked Ms D to reimburse its outlay.
What happened
Ms D arranged cover with Calpe in August 2019. Ms D had a friend help her with the call she 
made to Calpe to finalise the cover application. With Ms D present, and sometimes helping 
with answers, the friend answered various questions posed by Calpe. One such question 
was whether Ms D had any motoring convictions within the last five years, including any 
which were pending. Ms Ds friend said no. It was also clear, at this point, that Ms D and 
her friend had filled out some form of written application which had been submitted to Calpe 
and the call was taking place, at least in part, to verify those details already given (which 
included the question and answer about the motoring convictions). The policy was put into 
place and documents confirming all the details given were provided.
In October 2019 Calpe was contacted by a third party insurer (TPI). The TPI said Ms D had 
been involved in and was responsible for an accident with its policyholder. Calpe 
investigated the claim and initially felt there wasnt enough evidence to conclude Ms D was 
liable  and she didnt seem to have suffered any loss herself. Calpe then found out that 
Ms D did have a motoring conviction, from three years ago. It asked her about this  she 
seemed confused about dates and reminded Calpe that English isn't her first language and 
she doesnt speak it well. Calpe emailed her stating she had not disclosed the points on her 
licence at inception and asked her why this was. Ms D wrote back:
my English is not very well and I dont meens this question.
Calpe later told Ms Ds friend that the recording of the call showed the conviction hadnt 
been disclosed. Calpe said it would have offered cover to Ms D if she had told it, but at a 
higher premium. However, it felt she had deliberately or recklessly failed to give it that key 
information so said it was avoiding her policy. 
Calpe then received further evidence regarding the claim from the TPI. It felt this showed 
Ms D had been liable and it accepted liability, settling the TPI claim. Calpe then asked Ms D 
to reimburse its entire outlay. Ms D complained to us and we asked Calpe why it had 
deemed Ms D had acted deliberately or recklessly. It said this was because shed told it she 
hadnt understood the question on account of the language barrier, but that wasnt true 
because shed had a friend assisting her.
Our investigator, having listened to the call, felt Calpe had acted fairly and reasonably. So 
she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms D said she felt it was particularly unfair that Calpe had settled the TPI claim, as Calpes 
assessor had agreed with her that she wasnt liable. Our investigator explained that we dont 
determine liability claims but based on the fact that Calpe had obtained further evidence, our 
investigator didnt think it had done anything wrong in acting to confirm liability.
Regarding the conviction question Ms D had been adamant that she had told Calpe of the 
conviction. Our investigator sent a copy of the recording of the sales call to Ms D. Ms D said 
that her friend hadnt checked with her before answering the question. When our investigator 
asked Ms D about the form that had been filled out before the call took place, Ms D didnt 
respond further on this subject.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I felt Calpe had failed Ms D. 
I issued a provisional decision in which, in short, I explained that I felt Calpes avoidance had 
been unfair, but its decision on liability in respect of the TPI claim had been reasonable. 
I explained what I felt Calpe needed to do as a consequence which included recalculating 
what Ms D owed it in respect of the TPI claim and paying her £250 compensation.
Ms D said she still felt it was unfair that Calpe was still asking her to pay towards an accident 
that she was not involved in. Calpe wasnt satisfied by my provisional findings either. In 
summary Calpe said:
Ms D knew she had a motoring conviction and has never argued that she didnt or that 
she had forgotten about it.
Ms D also gave the same answer (that she had no convictions) when filling out 
paperwork for this cover, and Ive confirmed she never told our investigator why she 
gave this wrong answer.
Ive said Ms D had told us she was adamant she had told Calpe about the conviction.
Ms D knew the answer she gave was wrong, so this must be deliberate or reckless. 
The policy cannot be reinstated or renewed as it would have ended in August 2020.
It is unclear what I intend it to do in respect of recalculating the TPI claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
The legislation
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the 
responsibilities and rights of insurers and consumers during insurance applications (and at 
renewal of policies). CIDRA requires a prospective policyholder to take reasonable care to 
not make any misrepresentation to the insurer when applying for cover  in other words they 
have to give honest answers and not mislead the insurer. If a misrepresentation is made 
which is a qualifying misrepresentation then the insurer will be allowed to take certain action. 
If reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective policyholder and the insurer can show 
that if it had been, it wouldnt have entered in to the insurance contract (the policy), or it 
would but only on different terms, the misrepresentation made is seen to have been a 
qualifying one. Whether the prospective policyholder took reasonable care will depend 
largely on whether the question asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific enough to 
elicit from the reader what it really was the insurer wanted to know.If a qualifying misrepresentation is made that can be classed in one of two ways  and which 
classification is applied determines what the insurer can do by way of a remedy for the 
misrepresentation. A qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless or 
careless. CIDRA says that careless is applied unless an insurer can prove the act was 
deliberate or reckless.
If the insurer shows the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, then it can 
avoid the policy that had resulted from that act. Which means it will be as though the policy  
and any liabilities the parties had to each other  never existed. But if the misrepresentation 
was careless the insurer can only avoid the policy if it would never have offered cover in the 
first place. If it would still have offered a policy but at a higher premium, and there is a claim 
being considered on the policy, CIDRA only allows the insurer, in that instance, to settle the 
claim proportionately. This means it can work out what percentage of the premium it would 
have charged has been paid, and settle the claim based on that percentage of the overall 
claim value. But it cant avoid the policy.
Was there a qualifying misrepresentation?
Calpe has shown that if it had been told about Ms Ds motoring conviction, it would still have 
offered cover, but at a higher premium. I think the question Calpe asked Ms D was clear and 
the answer Calpe received in return was incorrect. I think its clear that Ms Ds English is 
poor, but she did have someone assisting her with her application. If he failed her by not 
checking the answers he was giving with her first, then I think that would mean Ms D had not 
taken reasonable care. In essence he was acting for her but she was not controlling what he 
was doing or making sure he was giving the right information. So Im satisfied that the policy 
that was put in place between Ms D and Calpe was based on a qualifying misrepresentation 
from Ms D.
Was the qualifying misrepresentation deliberate or reckless? 
Calpe told us that it had treated Ms D as having provided a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation because shed told it the wrong answer had been given because of the 
language barrier  but it felt this was untrue because shed had her friend helping her. That, 
to my mind doesnt actually reflect what Ms D told it. And even if it did, it doesnt prove she 
acted deliberately or recklessly. 
For a qualifying misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless, CIDRA says the consumer 
(Ms D) must have known the answer was untrue or misleading, or didnt care whether it was 
or not. The fact that Ms D gave a wrong answer doesnt mean she knew at that point that it 
was untrue or misleading. And importantly, Calpe hasnt presented any rationale or evidence 
which supports its position that the qualifying misrepresentation made by Ms D was 
deliberate or reckless. As such Im satisfied that it should be seen as careless  meaning 
Calpe was wrong to avoid Ms Ds policy. In line with CIDRA, Calpe, in the circumstances 
here, was only entitled to settle the claim proportionately in line with the difference in 
premium caused by the qualifying misrepresentation. Its act to avoid the policy was unfair.
Im not sure why Ms D gave Calpe the answer that she did when it asked her if she had any 
convictions. When our investigator asked her, she felt she had told Calpe about the 
conviction. But that was quite a while after the policy was applied for. And, for me, Calpe 
never really investigated the answer Ms D had given it. The legislation says it is up to the 
insurer to show a deliberate or reckless act has occurred  the fact of a prospective 
policyholder giving a wrong answer is not proof that they acted deliberately or recklessly. So 
I remain of the view that Calpes avoidance was unfair and unreasonable, and the remedy 
for this, in addition to having the avoidance record removed, is for the policy to be reinstated. 
The fact it would have ended in August 2020, if the avoidance had not occurred, is not a bar to this. Rather Calpe will have to reinstate cover to date, it will be up to it what it does when 
the policy is next due for renewal. Thats important, because but for the unfair avoidance 
theres no reason to think Ms D wouldnt have stayed with it and she shouldnt be left with a 
period of no cover because of Calpes unfair action.
I continued provisionally to look at the claim:
The claim
From Calpes file I see that it made some without prejudice payments on the claim before it 
found out about the motoring conviction. That is fine, it was entitled to do that as, at that 
time, the policy was still active. And, while the policy was in force, Calpe had to handle the 
claim, which is what it did.
 
Calpe investigated the claim. And Ms Ds recollection of the meeting with the assessor 
seems to be correct  he didnt think, based on what he saw and heard from Ms D, that there 
was evidence to show Ms D was liable for the crash. But after this meeting further evidence 
was provided by the TPI which gave Calpe cause to review its position on liability. In general 
terms an insurer would be entitled to do that and as our investigator explained, it's not our 
role to decide liability for accidents, but we will look to see if an insurers reached its decision 
fairly. I think that here Calpe received new evidence, assessed it and gave consideration to 
how that affected its liability. I dont think it acted rashly or without good cause. I think, given 
the available evidence, it made a fair and reasonable decision. 
I know Ms D is unhappy that Calpe accepted liability, settling the claim and then asking her 
to reimburse it, finally logging a debt against her when she wouldnt pay. And I can 
understand from her position, given Calpe had avoided the policy, that this would be 
upsetting for her. But as a motor insurer Calpe doesnt just have a duty to Ms D under the 
policy, it also has duties that stem from the Road Traffic Act. Of relevance here, and in 
summary, is the duty which protects non-fault drivers from not having their losses covered. 
Essentially, under the Road Traffic Act duty Calpe had to consider what would have 
happened if the policy had remained in place, and act accordingly. As Calpe considered 
Ms D was most likely at fault for the damage claimed by the TPI, it had to settle that claim. 
 
In any event, Calpes act of payment did limit the TPI claim costs and even if it had not 
avoided the policy  I cant see it would have responded to the claim differently. I think Calpe 
would always have accepted liability, as its entitled to do and Ms D would still have been 
unhappy about that acceptance, not least as shed also have always had to pay it a 
significant sum. Ms D was always liable under the policy to pay the first £3,000 of any claim. 
And, due to Ms Ds careless qualifying misrepresentation, Calpe would have only been liable 
under the policy for a proportionate amount of the TPI costs  which would mean it would 
always have expected a contribution from Ms D for the remainder. So Im not persuaded that 
in settling the claim as it did, Calpe acted unfairly or caused Ms D to be in any different a 
position, including in respect of having a debt logged against her, than she always would 
have been in even if it had not avoided her policy.
I note Ms D maintains that she was not involved in the accident. But also that whilst initially it 
was her word against the TPIs as to what had happened, Calpe received a photo which 
seemed to suggest the TPIs recollection was more likely to be an accurate account of 
events. I think evidence like this would have been difficult for Calpe to challenge.  I remain of 
the view, given the photographic evidence Calpe was presented by the TPI, after Ms D had 
spoken to Calpes assessor, that its agreement on liability was fairly and reasonably made. Calpe has asked about recalculating the claim settlement in line with the premium it would 
have charged. It said if it can show that Ms D only paid it, for example, 80% of the true cover 
costs (that she would have been charged if she had declared the conviction), does that 
mean it can only ask her to pay it 80% of the TPI claim. Im not really sure why Calpe is 
confused about what Ive said. My findings, if accepted by Ms D within the deadline given 
following this final decision, mean that Calpes avoidance cant stand and the policy must be 
reinstated. That means that Calpe was always on risk for the loss incurred in respect of 
settling the TPI claim. So, using Calpes example of 80% of premiums having been paid by 
Ms D, it was always liable for that 80% of costs (less the £3,000 excess that Ms D always 
had to pay). But Ms Ds misrepresentation (keeping the example percentage in mind) would 
mean that she would be liable, in addition to the excess payment, for 20% of the overall 
costs. In this example then Calpe could reasonably ask Ms D to pay 20% of its outlay for the 
TPI claim, plus the £3,000 policy excess. 
I concluded my provisional findings by looking at other costs Ms D had claimed and the 
issue of compensation for non-financial loss (neither of which Ms D nor Calpe chose to 
comment on):
Other effects of the unfair avoidance
Ms D has explained that she did initially manage to find cover after Calpe avoided her policy. 
But that those insurers were then instructed to cancel those policies and since then shes not 
been able to find cover. This has meant shes had to at least think about selling her car.
Ms D has shown us that whilst she found cover elsewhere via the broker which had 
arranged the Calpe insurance, that broker told at least one of those insurers (which it had 
business links with) to cancel their policy with Ms D due to Calpes avoidance. But I havent 
seen that Calpe had any hand in doing this. Whilst that same broker acts for Calpe in 
arranging and administering insurance policies underwritten by Calpe, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Calpe is otherwise liable for acts of that broker.
Whilst, Ms D was only in the market for alternate insurance in the first place because Calpe 
unfairly and unreasonably avoided her policy, it seems that unfair act didnt prevent her from 
finding other cover. Rather it seems that Ms D found cover only for that to be revoked by, or 
because of, others. It was after this activity when Ms D became unable to find another 
insurer. I appreciate that was distressing and has led to some difficulty for Ms D  but Im not 
persuaded Calpe is directly responsible for that. So Im not going to require Calpe to 
compensate Ms D for any financial or non-financial loss shes incurred or suffered as a result 
of not being able to insure her car. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I think its fair to say that Calpes avoidance was frustrating for Ms D. It never really 
communicated with her properly about the avoidance  not in a way she could understand. 
And she initially had to act to try and find other cover, which was inconvenient as well. 
Overall, I think Calpe should pay Ms D £250 compensation.
Putting things right
I require Calpe to:
Remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry databases.Reinstate Ms Ds policy  this should be done from the point it originally incepted and be 
allowed to run until the first point at which, after my final decision should Ms D accept it, 
it is next due to renew. That will be subject to Ms D paying it any premiums owed.
Determine, in line with what CIDRA allows, what premium it would have charged for the 
policy and, using this figure set against that which Ms D actually paid, revise the amount 
of the claim settlement Ms D is expected to pay. 
Pay Ms D £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman