DRN-3385176
The complaint and what happened
Mrs R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse money she lost when she says 
she fell victim to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mrs R was looking to invest. She came across a Contracts For Difference (CFD) 
trader online, which Ill call R. She started with a small investment. Between 
December 2019 and January 2020 she invested just over £10,000. She was 
promised good returns which she says werent received and she tried to make 
numerous withdrawals, but excuses were made. She then lost all of her investment. 
Mrs R raised a chargeback claim for the payments made. Barclays raised the 
chargeback but R defended it, providing its terms and conditions, and showing that 
Mrs R had traded and had withdrawn. Some of her payments were made to a 
different trading arm of R, which werent defended and so they were refunded to her. 
Her remaining loss is £5,117.59. 
R is regulated in another jurisdiction. And Mrs R complained to its applicable 
ombudsman scheme. It didnt uphold her complaint as the evidence provided to it 
showed Mrs R had been made aware of the risks associated with trading and that 
she had made a withdrawal. 
Although our investigator initially upheld Mrs Rs complaint, they ultimately concluded 
it shouldnt be upheld, as R was a legitimate trading company and so not a scam. 
Mrs R has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She has referred to 
getting some of her money back as a result of the chargeback process. She also 
maintains that she has been scammed and has referred to BSI PAS 2107 1727 and 
the banking protocol in support of her view that Barclays ought to have intervened in 
the payments made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Mrs R paid two different parties when making her investment. Barclays did raise a 
chargeback claim against both parties. One of those didnt reply. Under VISA 
chargeback rules, if a chargeback claim isnt defended, the amount is refunded 
automatically.  There might be a number of reasons why a chargeback might 
succeed  such as the merchant not meeting the deadlines set by VISA. A 
chargeback succeeding isnt persuasive evidence, of itself, of a scam. 
R defended the chargeback made against it, providing evidence to show Mrs R 
agreed to its terms and conditions and showing that she had made a withdrawal. Im 
not persuaded Barclays was acting unfairly or unreasonably when deciding not to 
pursue the chargeback further, when it had little prospect of success. 
I turn now to whether Barclays ought to have intervened in the payments. And I note 
the guidance Mrs R has referred to, something that were aware of and taken into 
account. But the question I need to consider is whether she has been scammed 
rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is important because 
a bank or other payment services provider, doesnt have any duty to intervene in 
payments that are being made to a legitimate investment opportunity or to protect 
customers from losses that flow from those investments. They only have a duty to 
protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud  put simply, if there is 
no fraud or scam, there is no duty or obligation. 
R is a CFD provider. CFDs are notorious for being high-risk investments, where 
many investors lose most, if not all of their investment; hence why they carry 
disclaimers. That Mrs R lost her investment isnt evidence that shes been scammed. 
R has been licensed in another jurisdiction to provide CFDs since July 2013. That 
meant it was licensed for investment business. The jurisdiction is within the European 
Union, like we were, which means its part of the EU single market and is able to 
provide goods or services to other members states, including the UK (prior to Brexit). 
A trading scammer will usually provide fake websites and trading accounts, and 
money invested would be stolen rather than traded. Mrs R hasnt provided any 
evidence that her investment was stolen rather than traded. Indeed, she made a 
complaint to the applicable ombudsman scheme, which wasnt upheld  there was no 
indication in the ombudsmans findings that R wasnt legitimate business or that it 
was operating a scam.  Overall, Im satisfied R was most likely a legitimate business 
offering what was a very-high risk investment opportunity. As R was a genuine CFD 
trader, I find no basis on which to find Barclays ought to have intervened in any of the 
payments made. 
As noted above, that Mrs R received part of her investment back under the 
chargeback process, isnt evidence of itself, that R was a scammer, particularly in 
light of my other findings. 
Finally, I note the investigator originally upheld the complaint under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, as they were satisfied there had likely been a 
misrepresentation by R and/or a breach of contract. However, they later overturned 
that. I have nevertheless considered this. But I think its fair I take into account that 
another ombudsman scheme has already considered whether there was a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract and not upheld that. And I can see that R 
has provided information to show Mrs R was made aware of the risks of investing 
and that she did, in fact, make a withdrawal. Overall, the evidence isnt sufficiently 
persuasive for me to find Mrs R has a valid, like claim, against Barclays for the 
transactions in dispute. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman