DRN-4064530
The complaint
Mr K has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc registered a marker against him 
at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2018, Mr K received over £600,000 from his workplace, which was reported as being from 
inception fraud. Mr K tried to spend around £55,000 of this in branch, claiming that the 
money had come from his business account. But he couldnt prove he was entitled to the 
money, so the branch stopped him. His workplace got the payment reversed. RBS closed 
Mr Ks account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Mr K says he was expecting a commission payment of around £3,000 from his workplace, 
and they must have sent him the £600,000 or so by accident. He says this was their mistake 
and he didnt commit fraud. 
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that Mr K had tried to spend money he wouldve known was not his. Mr K appealed.
Since then, Mr K complained to CIFAS directly, and CIFAS got confirmation from his 
workplace that theyd sent the payment in error. So the marker got removed. Mr K feels this 
means that RBS were wrong. Hes asked for compensation, saying the marker caused him 
about £30,000 of losses.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr K and RBS a provisional decision on 21 March 2023, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, RBS were not required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt 
that Mr K had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to believe 
that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which had 
appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think RBS did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
Mr K was only expecting to receive around £3,000, so he wouldve known that the amount of 
over £600,000 that he received was not actually his to spend. Those are two incredibly 
different amounts. In addition, I can see that his workplace emailed him to confirm it was an 
error and to ask for the money back, so he had extra confirmation that the money wasnt his.
Yet, following that, Mr K tried to spend around £55,000 of this money by attempting to 
withdraw it in cash or transfer it internationally. 
Mr Ks balance before this was around £200, and he was only expecting to get about £3,000 
from work. So he knew that he was not entitled to this £55,000 or so, and that it was not his 
to spend. But he tried to spend it anyway.
I find that Mr K misused his account, as he tried to spend someone elses money, which he 
reasonably knew wasnt his and knew should not have been in his account. Its also 
recorded that he tried to claim the money was his and came from his own business. These 
sorts of actions are considered fraudulent. I find that a CIFAS marker was justified here.
Mr K is very fortunate that RBS and CIFAS have removed this marker. I would not have told 
them to remove it. I find that RBS were entitled to register a marker, and that they would 
have been entitled to keep it registered for its full term.
As I have found that the marker was fair, and that RBS were correct to register a marker 
here, I therefore do not plan to award any compensation for the effects of the marker.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 April 2023. RBS had nothing further to add. Mr K added some further comments, which 
Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said he never tried to spend £55,000 and claimed RBS were lying. He said his account 
wasnt able to make those kinds of payments. But I can see from the records from the 
branch that Mr K nevertheless did try to make those payments and was prevented from 
doing so. The record of the conversation also states that Mr K tried to fraudulently claim that 
the funds were actually his.
Mr K reiterated that CIFAS had chosen to remove the marker. I am aware of this and I do 
understand his point. But for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision above, I do 
not agree that the marker needed to be removed.
Mr K explained that he felt hurt that I wouldnt have removed the marker. While Im sorry to 
hear about his feelings, I can reassure him that we dont look at things on a personal basis, 
but independently. And based on an independent assessment of the case, I have found that 
this marker was added fairly and did not need to be removed. So I do not require RBS to pay 
any compensation for any effects the marker may have had.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the 
same reasons as set out in my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman