DRN-2109410
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way Elderbridge Limited have administered her mortgage. 
Specifically, shes unhappy that the arrears were capitalised, and shes been paying interest 
on the arrears. She thinks the balance was higher than it should have been.
Ms M is also concerned that Elderbridge have not adjusted the account following previous 
decisions issued by our service.
What happened
Ms M had a mortgage with Elderbridge, which shes now settled in full. The mortgage had 
fallen into arrears in previous years, but has been kept up to date since early 2013.
Ms M has raised several complaints about how the account has been administered over the 
years, some of which have been dealt with previously by our service.
This complaint deals with the fact that Ms M feels Elderbridge capitalised her arrears 
unfairly. She feels shes been paying interest on the arrears unfairly as a result. Ms M is also 
unhappy that Elderbridge didnt acknowledge or respond to all of the complaints shed 
raised. Elderbridge explained that Ms Ms arrears were never capitalised, and she repaid 
these in full by making overpayments to the mortgage. They said that as Ms M had an open 
complaint, they added any new issues raised to that complaint, and so didnt acknowledge 
each email separately.
Our investigator looked into things and explained that she was satisfied Elderbridge had 
administered the account correctly. She did however recommend Elderbridge pay Ms M 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not responding to Ms Ms emails. Our 
investigator was also satisfied Elderbridge had adjusted the account and paid any redress 
due following previous decisions issued by our service.
Elderbridge accepted the outcome and agreed to pay Ms M £150. Ms M didnt agree with the 
outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She was also unhappy that we hadnt 
considered other complaint points shed raised over the years.
Our investigator explained Ms Ms previous complaints had been looked at and decisions 
had been issued. One of these decisions explained that a lot of Ms Ms concerns had been 
raised out of time, so our service hadnt considered them.
This complaint has now been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge its clear that Ms M feels very strongly about her complaints 
and the way that Elderbridge have managed her mortgage account. Ive reviewed everything 
shes told us thoroughly, and taken this into account when reaching my decision. 
I acknowledge Ms M remains unhappy with how some of her previous complaints have been 
resolved, but as our investigator explained, were no longer able to help with those. And so 
in this decision I will only be considering the complaint points dealt with under this complaint 
reference.
Administration of the account
Ms M is generally unhappy with how this account has operated over the years, and she feels 
quite strongly that the account has been administered incorrectly due to the balance that 
was still owed at the end of the term.
As explained above, I have only considered whether Elderbridge have automatically 
capitalised the arrears that had built up on the account leading up to 2013, as Ms Ms other 
concerns about the administration of the mortgage have been dealt with under separate 
complaint references. 
When a lender automatically capitalises the arrears on an account, it means that the 
contractual monthly payment the lender asks for is higher than it should be, as it includes an 
amount towards the arrears. And the lender would also have been reporting the account as 
still being in arrears separately. The Financial Conduct Authority has issued rules around 
this, and guidance on how lenders should put things right if theyve administered a 
borrowers account in this way in the past.
Ive looked carefully at the history of Ms Ms account, including the transactions history, and 
account statements to see how the account was being reported, and the payments Ms M 
has made. Having done so Im not persuaded theres any evidence that Elderbridge have 
capitalised Ms Ms arrears. When Ms Ms account was in arrears, her contractual monthly 
payment remained the same, and she paid additional amounts on top of this to clear the 
arrears. This is how Id expect an account to operate when the borrower is attempting to 
clear the arrears that had previously accrued on the account. As a result, the arrears were 
cleared in 2013. 
Having looked at the transactions history, Im also satisfied Elderbridge have adjusted the 
account and made any payments that they were instructed to pay by this service to settle 
previous complaints.
Communication
Ms M is unhappy that Elderbridge have not been acknowledging or responding to her 
emails. Elderbridge explained theyd received all of Ms Ms emails, and were investigating 
her concerns  but as they were doing so under one complaint reference, they didnt 
acknowledge each individual email. Our investigator recommended Elderbridge should pay 
£150 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience this caused, which Elderbridge have 
agreed to pay. Having considered everything thats happened here Im satisfied this is a 
reasonable amount of compensation.
Ms M has now repaid the mortgage, and so its unlikely shell need to continue to 
communicate with Elderbridge about this matter in the future. But in the event that she does, 
Id like to remind Elderbridge of the instruction our service gave in a previous decision to 
make reasonable adjustments when communicating with Ms M, which includes 
acknowledging correspondence when she writes to them.Putting things right
To put things right Im satisfied Elderbridge should pay Ms M £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not acknowledging or replying to her emails. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part. I 
instruct Elderbridge Limited to pay Ms M the £150 its already agreed to pay if it hasnt done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman