DRN-3397531
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she lost, to what she believes 
was a scam.
What happened
In early 2019, Mrs T and her husband (Mr T, who is a representative on this case) were 
looking to invest. Although the payment made in this case came from Mrs Ts account, shes 
explained that it was Mr T who carried out the research into the investment ahead of the 
payment being sent.
 
Mr T researched a number of potential investment opportunities online and came across an 
advert for an investment firm, describing a three-year product that he was interested in. Mr T 
completed some details online to express his interest, following which he received an email 
from the investment company, giving him further information about the product on offer. 
Mr T has said that the email looked good and as the rate of return was only 6.29%, he 
thought this was genuine. Over the coming days Mr T exchanged a number of emails and 
had telephone conversations with the company. He was concerned that the promise of 
guaranteed returns may be too good to be true, so he asked numerous questions about the 
investment and sought clarification on things, explaining to the investment firm that he did 
not want to risk the money he and Mrs T were investing in anyway. His questions included; 
how the returns were guaranteed, what protection was in place for the investment, what 
would happen if the company went into liquidation, how performance could be tracked and 
he sort clarification around detail within the contract note and insurance certificate that he 
and Mrs T had been sent. The Investment Firm in response confirmed that that the returns 
were guaranteed and the investment was underwritten by insurance which was also 100% 
guaranteed. 
Reassured by what they had heard and believing everything to be genuine Mr and Mrs T 
decided to invest and a cheque for £20,100, dated 16 January 2019, was sent from the 
account Mrs T holds with Santander. The cheque subsequently debited Mrs Ts account on 
21 January 2019. Mr and Mrs T have also said a further cheque was sent a week or so later, 
drawn on Mr Ts account, for the same investment - but I should note at this point, that this 
decision focuses solely on the payment made from Mrs Ts account and I will not comment 
on the payment sent from Mr Ts account here. 
In early February 2019, Mr T raised further questions with the investment firm around how 
the profits would be guaranteed, should the investment firm go into liquidation, adding that 
he was concerned that he and his wife had signed contracts under false pretences. Mr T 
then carried out some further research online and became aware that another investment 
firm had dealt with a similar product, using the same insurance, but had gone into liquidation 
and was not FCA registered. Mr T contacted the investment firm again, asking for all of the 
money he and his wife had invested to be returned. He told them he didnt realise the 
investment firm werent FCA regulated until hed read the small print. 
Mr T said he spoke with the investment firm who told him that they didnt need to be 
regulated to carry out this particular activity. They initially told Mr T that the money from the 
investment would be returned at the end of the three-year contract, but then confirmed that 
they would refund Mr and Mrs T in full. But Mr T became concerned when he tried to contact 
the Insurance Company that was supposed to be insuring the investment, but received no 
response.
After Mr T had spoken to the Investment Firm. Mrs T contacted them to arrange to withdraw 
the funds that had been invested in her name. She said that she signed contracts of 
cancellation with the Investment Firm and they asked her to send them a certified bank 
statement to enable them to release the funds. Mrs T attended a branch of Santander on 25 
February 2019 to arrange the certified statement, which she then sent on to the Investment 
Firm. At this point, while Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the investment, they were not 
certain that they had been scammed.  
Santander contacted Mrs T on 27 February 2019. This was because it had just received 
information regarding the recipients of the payment Mrs T had made, which prompted it to 
check the purpose of the payment. Santander explained to Mrs T there were some adverse 
comments regarding the company that the payment had been made to and it was concerned 
this could potentially be an unregulated investment scam. Mrs T confirmed that she also had 
concerns, which is why she was waiting for her money to come back from the Investment 
Firm. 
The Santander agent explained to Mrs T that if this is a scam then the Investment Firm 
would not send the money back to her. Mrs T asked Santander what made it think that this 
was a scam. It explained to Mrs T that it wanted to establish what had happened here and 
try and recover losses from the beneficiary bank. Mrs T told Santander that she didnt know 
whether shed been defrauded or not, and the Santander agent explained that he thinks they 
had been, he told Mrs T that he thought this is going to be an unregulated investment scam. 
 
Santander explained to Mrs T that unregulated products do pose a greater risk, it added but 
doesnt always necessarily, when Mrs T interjected and said we dont know if this is a 
potential risk. The Santander agent told Mrs T that they would like to treat this as a potential 
scam, so that this could be investigated thoroughly. Santander said that it had no guarantee 
whether this was a scam or not, but it asked Mrs T not to discuss anything with the 
investment firm and to not liaise with them anymore.
Santander wrote to Mrs T on 27 February 2019, it said that as Mrs T had authorised the 
transaction, it wasnt responsible for her loss, so it wouldnt be refunding her the money. It 
added that it had tried to recover the money from the beneficiary bank, but hadnt been able 
to. 
Following this Mrs T did continue to communicate with the Investment Firm to ask for her 
money back. She said they responded to her to say their account had been frozen as Mrs T 
had complained to Santander and until the account is unfrozen they wouldnt be able to 
return it. Mrs T also said the Investment Firm sent a screen shot of their bank statements to 
show the money was in the account to be returned. 
Mrs T contacted Santander again in September 2019 to raise a complaint. In summary she 
felt that branch staff had misadvised her when she asked whether she should send 
statements to the company and this had an influence on the funds being sent. Mrs T was 
also unhappy about the way the investigation was handled and with what Santander did to 
try and recover the funds. Santander looked into Mrs Ts complaint and issued its final response on 16 December 
2019. In summary, it apologised for the delays in its investigation following the fraud claim. It 
said that, although the scam was still unconfirmed, it did take steps to try and recover the 
funds, but it regretted that no funds remained. It said it didnt think its branch staff providing 
copy statements without querying the investment or raising concerns had any detriment or 
cause any loss to Mrs T. But it added that it was sorry for the additional stress this had 
caused and in recognition of this credited Mrs T with £250 as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs T brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. In summary, our investigator thought that Santander ought 
to have been concerned about the payment Mrs T was making and ought to have intervened 
before allowing the transaction to debit her account. He thought that had it done so and 
made further enquiries, it would have caused Mrs T to have further doubts, the scam would 
have been prevented and Mrs T wouldnt have lost this money. Our investigator 
recommended that Santander should refund Mrs T the money she lost.
 
Santander didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary it said;
- A cheque is not considered a payment service under the previous or present 
Payment Service Regulations (PSRs), so the provisions of those regulations do not 
apply to this type of payment instrument (or promissory note).
- A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms 
and conditions of the account contract and is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue delay.
- At the time, it was Mrs Ts intention to pay the cheque and there was no mistake 
made in the execution of the payment. It complied with Mrs Ts instruction. So, under 
the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs T is presumed liable for any loss in the 
first instance.
- Santander has systems and controls in order to disrupt and detect fraud, these 
systems and controls need to be proportionate to risk and take into account the wider 
impact on genuine customers transacting.
- The cheque-clearing process is all completed electronically with no direct bank to 
customer interaction and there was no opportunity for it to have intervened. 
- Even if it had an opportunity, it didnt believe it ought to have intervened given the 
circumstances in this case, the cheque was written in Mrs Ts own handwriting, the 
signature was a match, and funds were available in the account. It said it had no 
reason to question the cheque or Mrs Ts intentions to pay.
- It didnt consider that Mrs T would  have chosen not to proceed with the investment, 
even if it had made further enquiries.
-
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
 
On 17 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision, where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.
 
In my provisional decision, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently think that I can fairly instruct Santander to refund the 
payment to Mrs T. I realise this will be very disappointing news for Mrs T  especially 
considering how I can see this has been a very difficult time for her and her husband and 
because Ive reached a different outcome to that reached by our investigator. But I will 
explain why I have come to this conclusion.Its understandable having lost such a significant sum why Mrs T feels she has been the
victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact
fraudulent and/or a scam. I have taken account of the Fraud Act 2006, which defines
fraud as, amongst other things, dishonestly making a false representation, whether
express or implied, in order to make oneself a gain or cause another loss; and a
representation is false if its untrue or misleading and the representor knows that it is or
might be untrue or misleading.
Its clear Mrs T and her husband had concerns about the investment they had made after 
they had made it. And I can understand entirely why she feels so strongly about what has 
happened. But I cant safely say with any certainty, with what I know, that there was an intent 
here to set out to defraud her. 
 
I say this because the Investment Firm Mrs T made the payment to is a registered limited 
company, which was incorporated in 2018 and is still presently showing as active. Im aware 
the FCA added a warning about this company, indicating that it may be providing financial 
services or products in the UK without its authorisation. But this was not added until 18 
September 2019, so wouldnt have been known by Santander at the time Mrs T wrote and 
issued the cheque. Im also not aware of any ongoing legal investigations, or any 
investigations by other authority(s), which would lead me to safely conclude there was an 
intent to defraud.
 
Alongside this the Investment Firm was still contactable after Mrs T had made the payment 
and I understand they continued to communicate with Mrs T regarding a refund, sharing a 
copy of their bank statements (showing both Mrs Ts money entering the account and 
available funds). This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more often than not are 
not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money. Im also mindful, in the 
circumstances of this case, that its not apparent that the rate of return Mrs T was being 
offered seemed too good to be true and she wasnt cold called or pressured into investing, 
which can, but not always, be hallmarks of investment scams.
 
I do understand that Mrs T has said they found that another company, that was selling the 
same product, had gone into liquidation. However, this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to 
safely say there was an intent by the Investment Firm Mrs T was dealing with, to defraud 
her. After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence 
provided by both parties, on balance, I cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold 
and burden of proof for fraud.
Having concluded that I cant safely say this was a scam, there is nothing further for me to 
consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or give 
them investment advice. There are occasions when we do think banks should query 
payments  whether electronic or via cheque  because of suspicious activity that appears 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such potential fraud alerts are 
triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a banker to pause and ask questions of the payer 
about the transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before any loss occurs. But 
those considerations, which we have previously set out in our published decisions (and 
which also largely apply to cheque transactions, taking account of necessary changes given 
different processes and technologies), are predicated on there being evidence of a fraud or 
scam, which is not the case here. A bank does not have to intervene with authorised 
payments, and cannot be held liable for alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or 
scam, or if the payer has regrets or second thoughts after the event.
Indeed, a banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the
terms and conditions of the account contract (and of course the customers ancillary
contract with the third-party payee, e.g. a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc). This positionhas long been recognised at common law. So, if it fails to comply with a validly executed
payment order, the bank could be held liable in damages  as could the drawer (i.e.
payer) where the payment method used is a cheque. The starting position is that the
bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to
make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance with the
terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, regulatory
or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of a
payment instruction.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Mrs T. I realise how upsetting this is
for her. I can understand entirely, given the significance of her loss, why she believes she 
has fallen victim to a scam and feels strongly that her money should be returned to her. 
However, ultimately, Mrs T paid a sum by cheque to what appear to be  at least at the 
material time  a legitimate firm. There is no evidence that Santander had  or ought 
reasonably to have had  concerns about the firm. I therefore conclude that it didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably when settling payment instructed by Mrs T.
I invited further evidence and comments from both parties.
Santander didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs T responded and didnt agree with my provisional decision. Mr T, as a representative on 
this case, also responded. But for ease Ill only refer to Mrs T as she is the complainant on 
this case. In summary Mrs T;
- Considers that a fraud has taken place. She says this because the Investment Firm 
was not registered by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and they are currently 
being investigated.  
- Thinks Santander should have warned her that the Investment Firm were not 
regulated.
- Says Santander should have investigated things through its fraud department, rather 
than allowing the payment to be made.
- Thinks Santander were negligent as it always stated that their money wasnt in the 
Investment Firms account, but this was later retracted and a sum of money was 
found and returned to them. 
- The delay in locating the funds had a catastrophic effect on Mr T and Mrs T was 
greatly affected.
- Santander were wrong to tell her not to contact the Investment Firm when it 
suspected the payment may have involved a scam. Mrs T says it was only her 
keeping in contact with the Investment Firm and them trying to help by saying that 
their accounts had been frozen, but telling her that there was money in the account,  
that led to Santander locating the funds.
-
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that in this final decision Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.Im extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Mrs T. I realise how upsetting this is 
for her, and I dont underestimate the impact this situation has had. I can understand 
entirely, given the significance of the loss, why she believes she has fallen victim to a scam 
and feels strongly that this money should be returned to her. But in responding, I dont think 
shes given me any new information that would change my mind. I say this as, in my 
judgement, I cant safely or reasonably say that Mrs T has proved that a fraud has taken 
place.
Im mindful in her submissions (and Mr Ts submissions as her representative) that Mrs T 
has referred to the impact this matter has had on Mr T, and she has referred to funds that 
Santander were eventually able to recover from the Investment Firm. However, Im aware 
that the funds which were recovered by Santander, were for a subsequent payment Mr T 
made to the Investment Firm from his own account and that a separate complaint was raised 
by Mr T regarding that, which I understand Santander has issued its final response on. I 
should re-iterate here, that while I dont doubt this situation has had a significant impact on 
Mr T, I will not comment about that here, nor will I give any thoughts on the complaint he 
raised with Santander. No discourtesy is intended by this, but my decision must focus solely 
on Mrs T as the complainant and on the payment she has made.
It is Mrs Ts strong belief that this was fraud and she has provided evidence to show that the 
Investment Firm is currently the subject of an ongoing investigation. But this, in and of itself, 
doesnt definitively demonstrate that a fraud has taken place. Based on the evidence I have, 
and for reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I cant fairly or 
reasonably conclude that a scam has taken place. 
Mrs T has said Santander should have warned her that the Investment Firm were not 
regulated and should have investigated things through its fraud department, rather than 
allowing the payment to be made. But where Im satisfied that there isnt sufficient evidence 
to show that a fraud has taken place, this consideration falls away, as I do not need to make 
a finding in relation to whether Santander could and should have intervened in the context of 
suspiciously unusual or uncharacteristic payments from Mrs Ts account. Such logic would 
only apply if I was sufficiently satisfied that a fraud had taken place. A bank has no obligation 
to protect its customers from bad bargains or give them investment advice. So Santander 
wasnt under any obligation to intervene and it follows that I cant fairly and reasonably say 
that Santander were wrong when settling Mrs Ts payment instruction. 
I appreciate our investigators view gave Mrs T hope and I can empathise with the 
disappointment she felt on receipt of my provisional decision. I recognise that our 
investigator went down the route of fraud. But we make it clear to all applicants that ours is 
potentially a two-stage process if either party disagrees with the initial view  and it is the 
responsibility of the ombudsman to consider all the evidence and arguments afresh, not just 
rubber-stamp what went before. All dispute resolution processes carry the risk of the first 
outcome being overturned on appeal. And I have explained above why, in my opinion, it 
would not be fair or reasonable, with what I know, to conclude that this was a case of fraud.
Ive considered what Mrs T has said in respect of the Investment Firm providing her with 
information indicating that funds were available in its account, but the account was frozen so 
it was unable to release these to Mrs T. But Santander has provided me with evidence that 
satisfies me Mrs Ts money wasnt in the Investment Firms account when Mrs T first raised 
the matter with Santander. I put more weight on the evidence Santander has provided as it 
covers a period in time that more accurately reflects the timeline of when Mrs T made the 
payment and when funds left the Investment Firms account. So, in any event, I dont think 
Santander missed an opportunity to recover the payment Mrs T made.Mrs T has said that Santander gave her incorrect information, by telling her not to keep in 
contact with the Investment Firm, while the potential of a scam was investigated. But a bank 
has a responsibility to protect its customers if it considers they may be at risk of financial 
harm, I think Santander acted appropriately in suggesting that Mrs T stop communications 
with the Investment Firm while any potential scam was being investigated.
I understand Mrs T is unhappy with the service Santander provided, shes said that apart 
from thinking Santander should have raised potential fraud with her sooner, she felt its 
handling of the case was distant and she was never given a dedicated investigator.  
Santander has awarded £250 as a gesture of goodwill, for any additional distress it may 
have caused in the handling of this complaint. Considering everything in the circumstances 
of this case, I think the award Santander has made is fair and I wont be asking it to pay 
anymore. 
 
Mrs T has my considerable sympathies. Shes found herself in an unenviable situation where 
shes paid a substantial amount of money for an investment that hasnt materialised. But 
overall, for reasons explained here and in my provisional decision it remains my conclusion 
that Santander cannot fairly be held liable for Mrs Ts loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman