DRN-4011391
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Premier Insurance Company Limited (Premier) handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with Premier covering his van.
In late November 2020 Mr B was involved in a collision when a third-party vehicle reversed 
into his.
Premier assessed his van as being beyond economical repair and declared it a write-off.
Mr B was injured in the collision and sought to hire a replacement van while his claim was 
being settled. 
In December 2020 Premier paid Mr B £2,994 to settle the claim for his van being written off, 
and it invoiced the third-party insurer. Mr B agreed to keep the van (which is called salvage) 
which means this amount was lower than its market value.
The third-party insurer sent Mr B a cheque for £2,895.44.
Mr B checked with Premier about this cheque. Premier said it thought the cheque was a 
payment was an interim payment towards Mr Bs injuries and the hire van and it said he 
could cash the cheque. The cheque didnt clear, so Mr B approached the third-party insurer 
who raised a replacement cheque. Mr B again checked with Premier who again told him to 
cash the cheque, which he then did.
Premier then realised that Mr B had been paid by the third-party insurer for the write-off 
value, so it asked for the money back from Mr B. Mr B refused as he said he understood the 
third-party insurer payment was for his hire and injury costs.
Premier recorded details of the claim on an external database. Part of the record included 
that Premier hadnt been able to recover its costs from the third-party who caused it.
Because the third-party insurer had paid Mr B, Premier couldnt recover its costs and the 
record has stayed on the database. This record is commonly known as a fault claim and 
what it means is that Mr B is paying more for his van cover than if Premier had recovered its 
costs.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. She thought it was clear that the third-party insurers payment was 
in respect of the vans value. She thought Premier had made a mistake when it told him to 
cash it, because Premier thought it was a payment towards Mr Bs hire costs. But because 
Mr B had received payment for the van from the third-party insurer, Premier were unlikely to 
recover its costs and the record on the external database was correct.
Mr B didnt agree with the view. So his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance contract is one of indemnity. Premier agree to indemnify Mr B under the terms 
and conditions of its policy. What that means is it will pay him the value of his van following it 
being written off.
Having paid Mr B that amount, Premier then seek to recover the most it paid from the third-
party who caused the damage; and in turn their insurer. 
But in Mr Bs case, the third-part insurer has paid an amount directly to Mr B. Its Premiers 
position that this amount was for the vans value; its Mr Bs contention that it was for other 
costs he was incurring after his claim.
Ive looked at the letter sent with the cheque by the third-party insurer which says:
the pre-accident value is £3,188 subject to the deduction of £382.56 salvage. A 
cheque will therefore be issued in the sum of £2,805.44 upon our acceptance.
I think this part of the letter makes it clear that the third-party insurer is sending a cheque for 
the vans value.
But Mr B points out that the letter continues to say:
This payment is made as a general interim to be offset against all heads of claim.
He takes this as meaning that the payment is towards his other costs such as hiring another 
van, and other compensation.
I asked for some clarification about the purpose of the third-party insurers letter and 
payment. Mr B sent this service a copy of an email from it which stated that the amount was 
payment for the vehicle, rather than anything else. 
It follows that Mr B received two payments of indemnity towards his vehicle, and therefore 
hes been doubly indemnified.
This means I cant uphold his complaint. 
Mr B needs to make arrangements to return the payment. Its my understanding that this 
should allow Premier to close his claim as non-fault, which should then mean the claims 
status on the external database will change, and he can perhaps benefit from additional No 
Claims Discount. He should liaise with Premier and the third-party insurer to make 
arrangements for this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 Richard Sowden
Ombudsman