DRN-4296229
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy American International Group UK Limited (AIG) turned down a legal 
expenses insurance claim she made. 
What happened
Mrs H has the benefit of legal expenses cover with AIG through a travel insurance policy 
provided by her employer. In February 2022 Mrs H was on a cruise during which her ship hit 
a wave which caused tables and chairs to be thrown across the restaurant. Mrs H was 
injured. She sought assistance from her legal expenses policy in pursuing a personal injury 
claim against the carrier for a breach of the conditions of carriage. 
AIG turned down the claim. It said her policy excluded claims against any travel agent, tour 
operator, insurer or their agents. Mrs H was seeking to bring a claim against the tour 
operator (the cruise provider) so it thought that applied here. 
Our investigator accepted Mrs H wanted to take action against the tour operator acting in 
their capacity as carrier. But the exclusion applied to any claim against a tour operator and 
that was who the claim was against. And there was no evidence to suggest a separate entity 
had carrier responsibility. She thought AIG acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said at all material times shed been a passenger and the cruise 
provider were the carrier. Their responsibilities in that capacity were covered by a different 
regime to the one that applied to the package travel regulations. She didnt think it was 
relevant the carrier might also be operating as a tour operator as that wasnt relevant to the 
claim she was making. And the policy didnt exclude claims against carriers.  She also said 
any doubt over the wording of a policy should read in favour of a consumer. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy. It says The Company will 
reimburse the Insured up to the Sum Insured on the Schedule for Legal Expenses incurred 
by or on behalf of an Insured Person in pursuit of a claim for damages or compensation 
against a third party who has caused physical injury to, or death or illness of, that Insured 
Person from an incident occurring during the Period of Insurance and Operative Time.
However, the policy has an exclusion for Legal Expenses incurred in pursuing any claim 
against any travel agent, tour operator, insurer or their agents. In this case although Mrs Hs 
claim is against the operator of her cruise shes seeking to bring that against them in their 
capacity as carrier. And her claim relates to an alleged breach of their responsibilities under 
the Athens Convention which covers the liability of a carrier for damage suffered as a result 
of death or personal injury to a passenger. 
But the exclusion in her policy doesnt say that for it to apply the claim has to relate to 
something the tour operator was doing in that capacity. It refers to any claim against a tour 
operator. Mrs Hs claim is against her tour operator and I havent seen any clear evidence to 
show a different business had carrier responsibility in this case. So I think the exclusion 
would apply here. 
And its not unusual for a travel insurance policy to exclude the costs of taking action against 
the tour operator. I also note this policy wasnt taken out specifically to cover the cruise 
Mrs H was going on but was an annual policy provided through her employer. I think the 
policy term is clearly set out and I dont think there is any ambiguity or uncertainty about its 
meaning; it excludes legal costs involved in pursuing a claim against the tour operator.
However, I also need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I 
agree the exclusion is broadly worded. Mrs H has suggested it would exclude a claim 
against a high street travel agent where someone had an accident on their premises. Thats 
potentially the case and I accept it might be unfair to apply the exclusion in a situation where 
the accident and resultant injury had no connection at all to the respondents role as travel 
agent or tour operator. 
I dont think thats the case here. Mrs H is seeking to bring the claim against the tour 
operator in their capacity as carrier. But Mrs H was only on the cruise because shed booked 
with them in their capacity as tour operator. I think its therefore reasonable to say theres a 
close connection between that role and the role they were carrying out as carrier. Given that 
I dont think its unfair of AIG to have concluded the exclusion for claims against tour 
operators applies to the claim Mrs H wants to bring.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman