DRN-3918521
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) responded when he asked it 
for help with obtaining a refund of part of a deposit.
What happened
Mr L has Barclays credit card. Mr L used this credit card to pay a deposit to a limited 
company. I will call the limited company P. The deposit was used to pay in part, for the 
supply and installation of a building structure (the goods). 
The goods were delivered to Mr Ls daughters address and installed on site. Mr Ls daughter 
paid the balance of the purchase price. Mr Ls position is that he is a part-owner of the goods 
because he had an agreement with his daughter about this.
Mr L is dissatisfied with the quality of the build and with the materials used. P did return to try 
and put things right. But as far as Mr L is concerned the remedial work done by P did not put 
things right. Rather, Mr Ls position is that the quality issues mean that the goods are not of 
satisfactory quality and that the installation work was not done with reasonable skill and 
care. Therefore, this is in turn means there have been breaches of contract. Therefore 
because Mr L used his Barclays credit card to pay P the deposit, and because he tells us he 
is a part owner of the goods, he thinks he has a like claim against Barclays as against P for 
these breaches of contract. Mr L indicates he has these rights under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).  Accordingly Mr L complained to Barclays. Mr L 
wants part of his deposit to be returned.
Barclays stance is that it had two potential routes open to it in order to try to reimburse Mr 
Ls money. Namely a claim against itself for breach of contract under section 75 or a claim 
under a process known as chargeback. But it concluded neither option could assist Mr L.
Mr L was dissatisfied with Barclays response. He also considered it had not provided him 
with the level of customer service he was entitled to expect. Specifically he complains that 
Barclays indicated it would respond in 20 days but did not. Mr L complained to our service.
One of investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. She did not recommend that Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld.
Barclays did not tell us if it accepted our investigators recommendation or not, rather, it 
merely told us it was happy for this case to be referred to an ombudsman. Mr L rejected the 
recommendation. Mr L asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman and sent a 
letter that he wanted the ombudsman who was allocated his complaint to read. Ive 
summarised below the content of the letter.
Mr L asked for answers to hypothetical questions about chargeback and section 75. He also 
asked about the time limit for a chargeback.
Mr L set out other issues that he wanted covered:
Why he has been told section 75 does not apply to his complaint. He reiterated his 
stance about why he thinks section 75 does apply to his complaint.
Clauses in Visas publicity which he indicated had not been properly considered.
The loss he thinks he made because Barclays did not respond to him in 20 days as 
promised. In particular, he mentions because of this he lost the opportunity to return 
the goods to P as required under the chargeback rules.
What he saw as inconsistencies in the views the investigator issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I think it is important that I explain that it is not my role to answer hypothetical questions 
rather I deal with the circumstances of the complaint as they are. I realise that may 
disappoint Mr L, but I will not be answering his questions about hypothetical situations.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I agree that the two routes that Barclays had open to it to reimburse Mr Ls money were a 
claim against itself under section 75, or a chargeback claim against P via Ps bank. Ill look at 
both of these options below.
Section 75
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr L has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier here that is P, he can also bring a like claim against Barclays 
provided certain conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there must be a very particular type of agreement in place 
known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. In this context this means Mr L would have 
to be the debtor, Barclays the creditor and P the supplier, in relation to the contract that was 
funded by the credit card transaction. 
However, here it does not appear that Mr L was a party to that contract. I say this because 
when considering who are the parties to a contract the first thing I look at is the contractual 
documentation. Here I dont have a copy of the written contract, but I do have the invoice, 
which is a contractual document, which is only in the name of Mr Ls daughter, this goes a 
long way towards persuading me that she and she alone was the contracting party with P. 
In trying to establish who on balance was the contracting party with P I also looked at the 
wider circumstances. I also have a copy of the order form, which it seems P required before 
issuing a quote and an invoice.  This in solely in Mr Ls daughters name. That said Mr L tells 
us the quote was issued to him. So the situation with the documents that relate to the wider 
circumstances are more nuanced. 
Further, whilst I can see Mr L did have contact with P prior to the deposit being paid and 
prior to the invoice being issued it seems he did this on behalf of his daughter. Moreover, the 
bulk of the correspondence and the instructions about requirements came from Mr Ls 
daughter which is what I would expect if she was the contracting party.
All of the above makes it appear more likely than not that Mr L was not a contracting party 
with P. But this is not the whole story. I note Mr L has put forward a number of additional reasons throughout the course of the complaint to explain why he can rely on section 75. At 
first he indicated that since he paid the deposit he therefore had a financial interest in the 
transaction. Later he said he was part owner of the stables under a verbal agreement with 
his daughter. Specifically he said: 
As you know a verbal contract is enforceable, and that is what I have. I can easily evidence 
it in writing if you want a written version.
Later still Mr L sent us a written document dated 24 October 2022 which he indicated 
evidenced the nature of the verbal contract between him and his daughter, namely that if he 
paid the deposit this would give him immediate part ownership of the goods from the date of 
the payment.
Mr Ls points here seem to be that either at the time the contract was made with P he was an 
owner of the goods so contracted with P. Or after the goods were purchased he became 
entitled to make a like claim against Barclays as against P because he is an owner of the 
goods. Im not sure that this latter argument would give rise to a like claim on the part of Mr L 
in these circumstances. But in case I am mistaken about this Ive looked at all of his points 
around this.
Merely paying a deposit did not I think on the facts of the case mean Mr L for that reason 
alone became a party to the contract with P. Rather it seems to me he was merely 
discharging his daughters contractual obligation to pay P.
Moreover, I dont see how Mr Ls daughter could have passed title to the goods to Mr L on 
the date he paid the deposit as it does not seem she had title herself at that point. As far as I 
am aware the balance had not been paid at that point and Ps terms and conditions say:
Title in our products will not pass to the purchaser until full payment has been made to the 
total purchase value.
In addition, I dont see why Mr L did not talk about his ownership initially when he contacted 
Barclays if he was an owner of the goods. This has impacted adversely on the weight I have 
felt able to place on what Mr L says about this and the agreement he has sent us.
For all of these reasons I am not persuaded by the points Mr L has raised about having a 
financial interest in the transaction or being a part owner of the goods and therefore a 
contracting party or being entitled after the fact to raise a like claim against Barclays as 
against P under section 75.
Mr L mentions what Visa says about section 75 in what he calls its publicity. I am not sure 
why Mr L thinks Visas stance is relevant Visas stance on this does not govern the 
application of section 75. Therefore when it says section 75 may not apply in certain 
circumstances this is irrelevant to this complaint.
Mr L also mentions that he had discussions with P after the remedial works and he asked P 
to sign a guarantee he had drawn up. He suggests these discussions and the fact he drew 
up the guarantee demonstrate he was a contracting party with P. I dont see it that way, 
rather looking at the communications between them, it seems to me that Mr L was 
communicating with P on behalf of his daughter. Moreover nowhere do I see P 
acknowledging that Mr L was a contracting party in his own right.
For all the reasons I have set out above I dont think that there was any valid debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement in place in this complaint which would enable Mr L to bring a claim under 
section 75 against Barclays. Therefore it follows that I have no fair or reasonable basis for 
saying that Barclays must take any further action in relation to this part of Mr Ls complaint 
because I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
Mr L has invited me to comment up some aspects of the investigators investigation into the 
application of section 75. That is not my role rather I look at the complaint afresh. I will 
comment no further on this.Chargeback
As Mr L paid for the goods and services using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive 
thought about whether Barclays dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Barclays to ask for a payment Mr L 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent as 
described/misrepresented by the company Mr L paid. A chargeback doesnt guarantee a 
refund. Ps bank could put forward a defence to any chargeback claim on Ps behalf. If the 
chargeback is defended, Barclays could pursue the chargeback further and ultimately ask 
the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome.
In circumstances such as these chargeback is relevant. It does not matter that Mr L did not 
ask Barclays to carry out a chargeback. That said, the chargeback process is a voluntary 
one, so Barclays was under no absolute obligation to carry one out. However, it is a tool 
which is available as a means of resolving disputes. However, we would only expect a 
financial business to initiate a chargeback and continue to pursue it, it there was a 
reasonable prospect of success.
The chargeback rules are prescriptive, and Barclays had no leeway about following them. 
The chargeback rules required that Mr L returned or attempted to return the goods. He did 
not. Therefore the chargeback would have failed at that first hurdle. I think there might well 
have been further difficulty too because the invoice was not in Mr Ls name that too would 
most likely have prevented the chargeback from succeeding. And in addition I think it likely P 
would have raised a defence. Most card issuers won't take it further if the chargeback gets 
defended. Based on the information Ive got I think that defence would most likely have been 
sufficient to defeat Mr Ls claim. 
I would have expected Barclays to have told Mr L about the importance of the deadlines that 
apply to chargebacks I cant see that it did. Further, it seems Mr L did bring his complaint in 
time for a chargeback to proceed, nonetheless. That said, I cant see that this made any 
difference ultimately because on balance the chargeback would not have succeeded in any 
event.
Mr L is concerned and upset because Barclays did not tell him he had to return or attempt to 
return the goods to benefit from chargeback. But as far as I can see his intention was not to 
return the goods it was to keep the goods but to seek to recover part of the deposit to cover 
repair works. It is only later on once it was academic that Mr L indicated that if he had known 
he had to return the goods or seek to do so that is what he would have done. Im not 
satisfied therefore that because Barclays did not mention this to Mr L he lost out on the 
chance to recover his money via chargeback. And as I mentioned already, I am not satisfied 
that the chargeback would have succeed anyway.
For all of these reasons, Im not satisfied that any chargeback would have been successful 
but for the mistakes Barclays made. It follows I have no fair or reasonable basis to uphold 
this part of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L has invited me to look again at some aspects of the investigators investigation in 
relation to the chargeback and the rules that apply. That is not my role I am meant to look at 
this complaint afresh as I have done. So Ill comment no further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman