DRN-2669866
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE refused to extend her travel insurance 
policy or provide cover under a new policy for her extended stay in Australia. My references 
to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
On 11 March 2020 Mrs D travelled to Australia for eight weeks to visit family. She had single 
trip travel insurance, insured by Great Lakes, to cover the trip dates from 11 March to mid 
May 2020. She paid an additional policy premium for connecting flight cover. 
On 23 March 2020 the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised all UK travellers 
to return to the UK immediately due to Covid-19. 
In mid or late April 2020 (Mrs D and Great Lakes have given different dates) Mrs Ds 
daughter told Great Lakes that Mrs Ds planned return flight had been cancelled. Mrs D had 
booked the next available flight with the airline she had travelled with to her local regional UK 
airport she has travelled from, which was for 5 July 2020. Mrs D asked Great Lakes to 
extend her policy to cover the additional time she would be in Australia. Great Lakes said her 
policy would be extended by 21 days, to 1 June 2020, but it would consider her request.
On 20 May 2020 Great Lakes confirmed to Mrs Ds daughter that it wouldnt extend the 
policy beyond 1 June and Mrs D should follow FCO advice to return home immediately and 
contact the British High Commission for available flights. Mrs D said Great Lakes told her 
there were flights to another UK airport earlier than her July flight and she could get public 
transport to her home.
On 21 May 2020 Mrs Ds daughter told Great Lakes Mrs D was a nervous flyer and would 
only fly to her local airport that she had travelled from. Mrs D said she had paid an extra 
premium for the policy so that she could fly from the local airport and she was in a high-risk 
category for Covid-19 so would be very anxious to fly to another airport where she 
understood there was a high incidence of the virus. Mrs D also said the government advised 
people over 70 not to use public transport and she would have a long journey to get home if 
she landed at a different airport than the one she planned to return to.
Mrs D noted the British High Commission advised that travellers who couldnt support 
themselves independently in Australia had been told to return to the UK urgently, but those 
with independent support should arrange to return as soon as they could. She asked 
Great Lakes if she could buy a new policy to cover her to 5 July or just for the return flight if it 
wouldnt further extend the existing policy.
From 25 to 29 May 2020 there were more calls between Mrs Ds daughter and Great Lakes. 
It confirmed it wouldnt extend the policy beyond 1 June and said there had been, and still 
were, earlier repatriation flights available for Mrs D. Great Lakes said Mrs D couldn't buy a 
new policy as she wasn't in the UK at the time, which meant she wasnt eligible for the 
policy. Mrs D remained in Australia until 5 July 2020 before returning home to her local 
airport.
Mrs D complained to us, represented by her daughter. She says:
she paid an additional premium to fly from the regional airport so she should be able 
to return there
Great Lakes had a duty of care towards her and treated her unfairly by leaving her 
without cover. She thinks Great Lakes used the FCO advice for British travellers to 
return to the UK immediately as an excuse not to extend her policy or sell her new 
cover
Great Lakes refusal to cover her after 1 June left her feeling vulnerable and anxious 
and she and her daughter spent a lot of time on calls to Great Lakes 
Great Lakes didnt fulfil its duty to her and she wants her policy premium refunded 
and compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Great Lakes said it gave the 21 days policy extensions, free of charge, as it understood 
policyholders could be facing difficulties following the FCO advice to return immediately to 
the UK. It had told Mrs D how she could return to the UK on or before 1 June but she had 
chosen not to because she wanted to fly to her local airport. The policy cover was given on 
the basis that FCO advice would be followed and Mrs D hadnt done so. Great Lakes said it 
was sympathetic to Mrs Ds anxiety but noted that she had chosen to travel to Australia 
when the Covid-19 pandemic was widely publicised. Great Lakes also said it wouldnt cover  
Mrs D under a new policy after 1 June because it couldnt start cover when Mrs D was 
already outside of the UK.
Our investigator said Great Lakes acted fairly and didnt need to refund the policy premium 
or pay Mrs D compensation.
Mrs D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to extend 
Mrs Ds existing policy beyond 1 June 2020 and/or providing new policy cover, and I think it 
did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator correctly explained that the additional £16.63 policy premium Mrs D paid 
wasnt so that she could fly specifically from and to her local airport. The extra premium was 
for connecting flight cover in addition to her main travel policy so she had cover for delays 
with her connecting flights during her outward and return journeys. I dont agree with Mrs D 
that her payment of the additional premium meant if she couldnt fly to her local airport she 
didnt have to return to the UK sooner than 5 July.
Great Lakes had no obligation to extend Mrs Ds policy, or provide her with new policy cover, 
if her situation didnt meet its criteria for cover. Following the FCO advice on 23 March 2020 
Great Lakes acted reasonably in its goodwill gesture of extending Mrs Ds policy, free of 
charge, by 21 days to 1 June to give her cover to make arrangements to return home 
immediately.
Its not clear when the airline cancelled Mrs Ds original May 2020 flight home but when she 
first contacted Great Lakes about extending her policy shed already booked a new return flight to her local airport for 5 July 2020.
The FCO had given clear advice on 23 March that UK travellers should return home now.   
I note the advice Mrs D says she was given by the British High Commission. But the 
British High Commission also issued statements that it was working with airlines to ensure 
additional flights to the UK so that travellers were repatriated as soon as possible. I dont 
think Mrs D could reasonably think the FCOs advice and the British High Commissions 
comments meant she could wait to return only by a flight to her local airport. 
Great Lakes told Mrs D there were earlier flights available that she should book to follow 
FCO advice. Ive no evidence from Mrs D that she tried and failed to book a flight departing 
on or before 1 June 2020. I accept the flights probably were all to other UK airports, not to 
Mrs Ds local airport. But given the FCOs advice I think Great Lakes acted reasonably in 
saying Mrs D should have taken an earlier flight. 
I do understand that Mrs D was anxious about using public transport particularly as she had 
a long journey home and the government were discouraging use of public transport. Mrs D 
says she was high risk for Covid-19. But Ive seen no medical evidence that shows she fell 
into the clinically extremely vulnerable category of people for Covid-19. There may have 
been other options, such as a taxi or asking a family member or friend to collect her from 
another airport. But even if those other options werent available to Mrs D, I take 
Great Lakes point that she chose to travel to Australia, with two changes, for a planned 
eight week holiday at a time when the potential impact of Covid-19 was widely publicised 
with a rapidly developing situation.
The policy says theres no cover if:
You do not follow any suggestions or recommendations made by any government or 
other official authority including the Foreign and Commonwealth Office during the 
period of insurance.
As I think Mrs D should have reasonably tried to return to the UK before 1 June 2020, I think 
Great Lakes acted fairly by not extending her policy cover beyond that date.
I also think Great Lakes acted reasonably in not providing cover for Mrs D under a new 
policy, whether from 2 June to 5 July or just for the return flight home. As is standard for 
most, if not all travel policies, Great Lakes cannot start cover when a consumer is outside of 
the UK. Its policy is clear that Cover cannot start after you have left the United Kingdom
As to Great Lakes service, Mrs D and her daughter did have several calls with Great Lakes. 
There was a delay in Great Lakes getting back to Mrs D after her request for a further 
extension. But it had unprecedented workload due to the Covid-19 pandemic and I dont 
think the delay disadvantaged Mrs D. When Mrs D asked for the extension Great Lakes told 
her it would be for 21 days only, shed already booked the 5 July flight and theres no 
evidence that she didnt book an earlier fight because she hadnt heard from Great Lakes.
I appreciate it was a very worrying time for Mrs D. But as I think Great Lakes acted fairly and 
reasonably theres no basis for me to say it must pay her compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. Ive also no reason to say Great Lakes must refund the policy premium to 
Mrs D. It provided her with cover from the start of her policy to the extended end date and if 
she had needed to make a claim during those dates she would have been covered, subject 
to the policy terms.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman