DRN-2215083
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy how Atkinson Rose LLP dealt with her Employment Tribunal claim.
What happened
Ms S had already started the process of an Employment Tribunal claim when, in 2017, she 
instructed Atkinson Rose to assist her. She asked Atkinson Rose if they would work on a no 
win no fee basis, but they said they werent able to. So Atkinson Rose worked for Ms S on 
an ad-hoc fixed fee basis for whatever work she needed doing at the time. 
Atkinson Rose worked on this basis from May to December 2017, and again during 2018. 
But they were never listed as her legal representative with the tribunal  Ms S was a litigant 
in person, assisted in some of the hearings by a barrister. Ms Ss claim was unsuccessful in 
October 2018, and she had £20,000 costs awarded against her in June 2019.
Ms S has complained about the costs charged by Atkinson Rose  that they didnt work on a 
no win no fee, and that theyve said theyll increase the outstanding costs from a fixed fee to 
an hourly rate basis. Shes also complained that she only had costs awarded against her 
because Atkinson Rose didnt provide paperwork to the tribunal in time. In addition to this, 
Ms S is also unhappy with the barrister who represented her.
Ms S brought her complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman service). Our investigator thought Atkinson Rose had acted reasonably by not 
offering a no win no fee service. She thought theyd charged Ms S in line with the original 
agreement she signed. And this agreement allowed Atkinson Rose to change their fees to 
an hourly rate basis if Ms S didnt keep up with the agreed instalment payments. 
The investigator also said Ms S had costs awarded against her because the tribunal said her 
case had no reasonable prospect of success. And not because of anything Atkinson Rose 
did or didnt do. So she didnt think Atkinson Rose needed to pay these costs. Atkinson Rose 
had agreed to waive their outstanding fees if Ms S withdrew her complaint about her 
barrister. The investigator said it was now for Ms S to decide whether to accept this offer.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator and has provided extensive comments as to why. So 
this has been passed to me to make a final decision on his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. While Ive fully considered all of the evidence, and Ms Ss 
comments, Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I address Ms Ss complaints about Atkinson Rose, I think it would be helpful if I 
explained what I can and cant look at. Ms S is unhappy with her barrister, but the barrister 
doesnt fall under our jurisdiction. So I cant look at what the barrister did. Complaints about 
barristers are dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman, and theyll be able to look at this. 
Ms S has also said shes unhappy that the Legal Ombudsman arent able to look into 
Atkinson Rose because theyre solicitors. But Ive not seen anything to show me that 
Atkinson Rose are, or were, regulated as solicitors  theyre regulated as a claims 
management company. So complaints about their service are dealt with by the Claims 
Management Ombudsman. I appreciate having to make two complaints to two different 
ombudsmen about the same underlying matter is inconvenient to Ms S; but we cant look at 
her complaints about the barrister, and the Legal Ombudsman cant look at Atkinson Rose.
Ms S has also said that a friend of hers used Atkinson Rose for a case that was far more 
complex yet she was charged less money for the services she used. All complaints are 
considered independently, so Im not able to look into the service Atkinson Rose provided to 
any other clients, including what they charged them. My decision will be based solely on the 
service Atkinson Rose provided to Ms S.
Ms S submitted her claim to the Employment Tribunal on 28 February 2017. While shed had 
some initial conversations with Atkinson Rose both before and after this date, she didnt 
formally instruct them to act for her until May 2017.
While Im aware Ms S wanted to be represented on a no win no fee basis, this isnt 
something that Id expect to be offered to all clients. Theyre usually only offered where 
theres a high chance of success, and where the percentage success fee charged would at 
least cover the cost of all the work that needed to be done. Ms S said she spoke to a few 
solicitors before instructing Atkinson Rose, and their fees were too high for her. So this tells 
me they also didnt offer a no win no fee agreement, and that, on the face of it, Ms Ss case 
was considered to have lower prospects of success. 
So I dont think Atkinson Rose did anything wrong by not offering Ms S a no win no fee 
option, either initially, or later on in the process when the full facts and circumstances 
became known.
Ms S has said Atkinson Rose didnt have a schedule of costs on their website, and this has 
meant shes been charged more than other clients. Employment claims are very individual 
and, however similar, no two are exactly alike. Because of this I wouldnt expect Atkinson 
Rose to publish a schedule of costs on their website, as costs can vary from claim to claim, 
depending on exactly what work needs to be done. For example Ms S was bringing a large 
number of claims against her former employer, which will take more work that say a single 
claim. What I would expect is theyre transparent and upfront about how much theyre 
charging, and what for. And Atkinson Rose have done this.
Atkinson Rose sent Ms S a Client Care Letter when she instructed them to act for her in May 
2017. This confirmed theyd agreed to act on a fixed fee basis, charging £680 plus VAT to 
prepare the schedule for the tribunal; and £2,220 plus VAT to provide a barrister to represent 
her at the Preliminary Hearing in June 2017. They explained that their retainer would end at 
this point, but they could then consider moving forward on a different type of retainer. They 
also explained that, even though this didnt apply to Ms S because she was paying a fixed 
fee, they charged £300 per hour for the work they did.
Atkinson Rose also said that, if Ms S terminated the retainer, or if they had to terminate it 
because she breached the conditions, they had the right to bill you on an hourly basis for 
the work that had been carried out. Ms S agreed to pay Atkinson Roses fee by monthly instalments. And, while the original 
retainer ended after the first hearing, Ms S asked them to complete additional work for her  
prepare a schedule of loss, arrange a barristers attendance at the second hearing, prepare 
an impact statement, prepare the document disclosure bundle, update the schedule of loss 
and prepare a witness statement. In each instance Atkinson Rose charged a fixed fee for 
this work and added the agreed costs to the outstanding bill.
No new retainers were agreed for this additional work, so its reasonable to assume that both 
parties were going ahead on the basis of the original retainer, which was also a fixed fee 
agreement, rather than under a different basis such as a no win no fee agreement.
Ive noted that Atkinson Rose have referred to some figures as being plus VAT, while not 
referring to VAT at all on others. Ms S has commented on this, and said she thinks Atkinson 
Rose are claiming VAT when theyre not entitled to. So she thinks they should refund the 
VAT shes paid back to her. But Atkinson Roses invoices have a VAT Registration Number. 
And Ive checked this and its valid. So Atkinson Rose are able to charge VAT.
Where a figure is quoted plus VAT, Id expect Atkinson Rose to add VAT to the quoted 
figure. But where a figure is quoted without mentioning the VAT, Id expect the VAT to be 
included within the quoted figure. And, from the schedule of costs Ive seen, this is the case.
But the schedule of costs also shows Atkinson Rose charged Ms S £2,220 plus VAT for a 
hearing scheduled for August 2017. But this hearing didnt take place and was rescheduled 
to November 2017. And there was a separate charge for the November hearing. As part of 
the complaint investigation process, Ive seen that Atkinson Rose have now removed the 
charge for the August hearing. Which is what Id expect them to do.
And when Ms S stopped paying the monthly instalments, she breached the agreement she 
had with Atkinson Rose. In doing so, under the original retainer, they had the right to charge 
an hourly rate basis for the work theyd done. So I dont think theyve done anything wrong 
by telling Ms S this. But I also note that Atkinson Rose havent altered the charging structure 
and are only charging the amounts originally agreed. Which I think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Especially as the terms of the original agreement werent supplied to Ms 
S every time she agreed for Atkinson Rose to do additional work for an additional fee. 
Turning to the costs Ms S has now been ordered to pay. Ive also noted that, on 11 
December 2017, Atkinson Rose wrote to Ms S with a hearing summary. This clearly said 
that, in the barristers opinion, the claim was likely to fail and that the barrister had also told 
Ms S this after the hearing. They also said the barrister had recommended it would be 
sensible to make an offer of settlement now at an early stage but that Ms S did not feel she 
could drop the whole thing completely.
A costs hearing took place on 19 June 2019, and Ive seen the judges decision on this. The 
costs claim was brought by the other side because they said Ms S had acted unreasonably 
in bringing and pursuing the claims and that she had failed to comply with tribunal orders. In 
ruling on this, the judge said the claimant did breach an order of the tribunal to complete the 
table of allegations by 22 June [2017], but it was completed by 28 June, albeit not entirely 
satisfactorily. The tribunal does not consider such a breach should lead to a costs order.The judge went on to say that that Ms S behaved unreasonably by bring far too many 
allegations [and she wasnt] able to sufficiently concentrate on the more significant matters. 
And she also brought unnecessary claims against individual respondents which caused 
extra work for the respondents representatives. The judge also said Ms S had no 
reasonable prospect of success in some parts of her claims [and] she was informed of the 
weakness of that claim by the respondents. And a considerable proportion of the 35 
allegations of disability discrimination had no reasonable prospect of success.
As a result of this, Ms S was ordered to pay the other side £20,000 as a contribution towards 
their costs. But the judge was quite clear that the order was made because Ms S has acted 
unreasonably in pursuing these complaints.. And the fact that the schedule was provided a 
week later than ordered was not a factor in the granting of a costs order. So I cant say that 
Atkinson Roses delay in providing the schedule was any part of the reasoning why the costs 
order was granted. And I wont be asking them to pay anything towards this.
Because of the above, Im satisfied that Atkinson Rose have acted reasonably. And I wont 
be asking them to do anything more. Theyve offered to waive their outstanding fees, if Ms S 
withdraws her complaint against the barrister with the Legal Ombudsman. While I dont think 
they should be making offers conditional on withdrawing complaints with other ombudsman 
schemes, because Im satisfied with how Atkinson Rose dealt with Ms Ss claim, I wont be 
directing them to make any alternative offer. Its now for Ms S to decide whether to accept 
this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint about Atkinson Rose LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman