DRN-2441584
The complaint
Mr C complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) mis-sold him a public liability insurance 
policy.
 
What happened
Mr C took out a public liability insurance policy with UKI in October 2019 to cover his 
decorating trade. He says that the agent he spoke to over the phone told him that external 
spray painting would be covered under the policy. Upon renewal, however, Mr C was 
unhappy to discover that he had been misinformed as spray painting was not in fact 
covered. 
Mr C complained to UKI, but the insurer said that its records indicated the policy had been 
taken out online and there was no record of any call having been made, so it didnt agree the 
policy had been mis-sold. 
Mr C later found evidence of him having made the call in October 2019, and UKI were 
subsequently able to trace the sales call. Our investigator upheld the complaint, as she was 
satisfied that the insurer had incorrectly told Mr C that external spray painting was covered. 
She awarded £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs handling of the matter, 
but didnt think it needed to refund the premiums, as Mr C had received the benefit of cover 
for other aspects of his trade. Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it.
On the sales call Mr C had with UKI, he was clearly told that spray painting was not excluded 
under the policy and was acceptable as he was a painter and decorator. However, the 
insurer has since confirmed with its underwriting team that it would be unable to grant cover 
for this type of work. But while this clearly demonstrates that UKI gave Mr C incorrect 
information about the policy and extent of cover, I dont believe this would have prevented 
him from taking out the policy altogether. 
I appreciate that having cover for spray painting would have come as a supplementary 
benefit to the rest of the policy, particularly as Mr Cs previous insurer did not cover this. But 
Im not persuaded that it was the sole reason he was taking out liability insurance with UKI. 
He had taken out a policy in the past that didnt cover spray painting, so its clear that he was 
still able to benefit from the other elements of cover for his painter and decorator trade. So, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask UKI to now refund the premiums Mr C paid 
for the policy.
Im also not persuaded that Mr C has suffered any financial loss or prejudice as a result of 
being given the incorrect information by UKI, as he fortunately hasnt had to make a claim for 
liability related to spray painting. However, Mr C says he has suffered a loss of earnings as a 
result of having to pursue this matter with UKI. I appreciate he has had to spend time making 
a complaint about this issue and finding evidence of the phone call he had with the insurer. 
But I do not consider its reasonable to expect a business to have to compensate its 
customers for all of lifes unexpected inconveniences and the time they have to devote to 
carrying out occasional administrative tasks such as making telephone calls or writing to 
complain. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that Mr C had no choice but to pursue this 
matter during his working hours, or that he could not have dedicated time to it around his job. 
So, Im not persuaded that any award should be made for loss of earnings in these 
circumstances. 
I do appreciate, however, that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr C to discover that he had 
been misinformed about the extent of cover available under his policy, and that he has also 
been further inconvenienced by UKI when it told him that there was no evidence of a phone 
call having taken place when he bought the policy.
Our investigator recommended an award of £75, but Mr C does not consider this to be 
commensurate to the experience he has had and submits that further compensation should 
be awarded. 
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr C, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
UKI have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im not 
persuaded it has in these circumstances. I appreciate the experience wouldve been 
frustrating and has also required Mr C to dedicate some time to it, but overall, I consider the 
£75 recommended by the investigator to be fair compensation in the circumstances, so I will 
not be making any further award.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr C £75 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
UKI should pay Mr C this amount within 28 days upon receiving his acceptance of this 
decision, failing which it will also need to pay 8% simple interest per year on the amount 
from the date of this decision to the date of settlement. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman