The complaint
Mr D complained about the advice he received from Copthorne Financial Services Ltd to 
switch his pension.
What happened
Mr D had a pension with Legal & General, which was set up by his previous employer. In 
2016 he sought advice from Copthorne. A Fact Find completed at the time said Mr Ds main 
priority was to review the pension to see if it meets his objectives1.
Copthorne recommended that Mr D switch 50% of the pension to one pension platform and 
50% to another pension plan. Mr D followed the advice and the following switches were 
made:
- on 9 September 2016 £110,000 was switched to a pension with MetLife; and
- on 12 October 2016 the remainder of Legal & Generals pension was switched to
another pension with Cofunds.
Mr D received a Portfolio Report in January 2019. He later complained to Copthorne as he 
was disappointed with the performance/lack of growth of his new pension  especially when 
compared to the growth of Legal & Generals pension in the 12-month period before the 
switch, and given the fees hed paid to Copthorne. In summary, Mr D felt his pension would 
have been worth more had it remained with Legal & General. Copthorne felt the advice to 
switch was appropriate, and that his investment was placed into pension investments that 
were in line with his attitude to risk and better met his objectives.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld as she felt the advice to switch was 
unsuitable. In summary, this was because she didnt think the higher cost of the new 
pensions justified the transfer as Mr Ds objectives could have been met by remaining with 
Legal & General.
Copthorne disagreed with our investigator. It felt the advice it gave was suitable given the 
information provided by Mr D, the risk he was prepared to take and his tolerance for 
investment loss. Points it made included:
Mr Ds capacity/tolerance for investment loss is an important consideration when making
a recommendation;
the charges are competitive if the 1% service fee  which Mr D selected  isnt included
(it said it switched this off when it received Mr Ds complaint);
1 For completeness, Mr D also had a pension through his current employer, but that isnt part of this 
complaint.
DRN-1718716MetLifes product is generating an increased pension income benefit each year which 
outweighs the charges while meeting Mr Ds zero tolerance for loss on this part of his 
pension;
since the transfer Legal & General has closed or changed three of the funds that Mr D 
was invested in; so if Mr D didnt seek advice from Copthorne he may have ended up 
within funds that dont suit his attitude to risk or tolerance for loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think an important consideration in this case is a report produced by the regulator in 2008 
(the principles of which still applied in 2016) following a review of the suitability of advice 
given to consumers to switch their pension. The review was done because the regulator was 
concerned that consumers may have been advised to switch into higher charging pensions 
with features or additional flexibility they didnt need.
The report gave examples of the poor practices (meaning failing to meet the regulators rules 
and principles) found. These included extra costs being incurred without good reason  
amongst other things, this involved cases where the reason for the switch was for 
investment flexibility which was unlikely to be used.
Documentation from when the advice was given show that Mr D wasnt unhappy with Legal 
& Generals pension and he wasnt necessarily looking to move pensions  he mainly 
wanted to review it to see if it was performing well and was competitively priced. It also 
shows that Mr Ds attitude to risk and ability to absorb losses was split  he didnt want to 
take any risk with half of his pension fund; but he was prepared to take a moderate risk with 
the other half. That broadly fits with what Mr D has told us ie that his main drive was to 
increase his pension pot without taking too much risk. The documents also show that Mr D 
was prepared to pay higher charges for a pension plan to meet his objectives.
In its suitability reports Copthorne outlined the respective charges of the various plans. I 
repeat them below, as they show that Legal & Generals pension was considerably cheaper 
overall than the recommended pensions:
Legal and 
Generals pensionCofunds pension MetLifes pension
Product charge 0.60% 0.26% 0.70%
Weighted fund charge 0.60% 0.66% 0.55%
Cost of Advice 0.50% 1.00% 0.75%
Cost of Guarantee - - 0.70%
Total 1.70% 1.92% 2.70%
Legal & Generals fund value was approximately £229,000 at the time of the 
recommendation. So to illustrate the cost difference in monetary terms:
Legal & Generals pension (£229,000 x 1.70%) = £3,893
Cofunds pension (£119,000 x 1.92%) and MetLifes pension (£110,000 x 2.70%) = 
£5,255.
Mr D also paid Copthorne approximately £4,500 for the advice. Even if the advice was to 
stay with Legal & General, I think its likely that Mr D would have had to pay something to Copthorne for that advice. But Im not persuaded it would have cost as much as Mr D 
actually paid.
I think the Copthornes recommendation was broadly in line with Mr Ds risk profile. But I 
dont think that, or the fact Mr D was prepared to pay higher charges, automatically made the 
recommendation suitable. The reasons for switching needed to be sound  Copthornes 
responsibility was to give Mr D suitable advice. And although Mr D may have been attracted 
to features of a new plan didnt mean he needed it or should have been recommended it.
The reasons given in the suitability report for recommending the switch to Cofunds pension 
were access to a greater number of funds to invest in (over 2,000 compared to 180 with 
Legal & General) as Mr D didnt want to be restricted by the availability of funds; Legal & 
General could reduce the range of funds and/or increase/decrease the annual charges; and 
there being no establishment or annual administration charge for Cofunds pension.
The Fact Find highlighted that it was important to Mr D to have a wide range of funds to 
invest in. But the suitability report also highlighted that Mr D had very little understanding or 
knowledge regarding investment experience. So, whilst 2,000+ potential funds might have 
seemed attractive to Mr D, given his known lack of understanding and knowledge and his 
moderate attitude to risk Im not persuaded that the 180 he already had available werent 
sufficient to meet his needs and provide sufficient diversification. And, referring back to the 
regulators report, Im not persuaded that he needed the increased flexibility. 
I agree that Legal & General could reduce the number of funds available, but at the time that 
was hypothetical and wasnt the case. And if that did happen at some point in the future, 
Mr D could have switched his pension then if the available funds didnt meet his needs. The 
same applies to potentially increased charges in the future. If Legal & General had changed 
their charges, Mr D could have switched pensions then.
The reason for recommending the switch to MetLifes pension was essentially to protect half 
of Mr Ds pension pot with minimal risk. I can see that Copthorne considered the option of 
Mr D doing nothing or switching funds within Legal & Generals pension, but these were 
discounted due to them not necessarily matching his capacity for loss or meeting his 
investment objectives.
Its clear that overall Mr D didnt want to take too much risk with his pension, but was still 
open to invest half of his funds into equities and take a moderate risk. However, I dont think 
he needed to transfer his pension to achieve that. Whilst I accept that MetLifes pension 
provided Mr D with a guaranteed pension, the charges were quite high. And Im not 
persuaded that the security of the pension was sufficient to justify the higher charges. About 
half of Mr Ds Legal & General portfolio was in fixed securities, property and bonds which are 
lower risk. He was also still 12 years from his planned retirement, so he could have moved 
into even more secure funds closer to retirement to avoid volatility before taking benefits.
Overall, for the reasons outlined above, I conclude that the advice Copthorne gave to Mr D 
to switch his pension was unsuitable. This is because although the new pensions broadly 
met his objectives, I dont think the reasons for the switch were sufficient enough to outweigh 
the cost. And I think Mr Ds objectives could most likely broadly have been met through his 
pension with Legal & General. Had Copthorne not advised Mr D to switch, I think its most 
likely that he would have remained with Legal and General in the same funds.
Putting things right
I dont know if Mr D suffered a loss due to him following Copthornes advice  detailed 
calculations and comparisons will need to be done to work that out. But I dont need to know that in order to decide this complaint because having concluded that the advice was 
unsuitable I can order Copthorne to carry out the necessary calculations. 
In simple terms, Mr Ds potential loss is calculated by comparing the value of his pension 
fund now with what it most likely would have been had he met his investment objectives by 
remaining with Legal & General. There has been some discussion following our 
investigators assessment of this complaint about whether some of the funds Mr D was 
invested in with Legal & General are still available. Weve tried to get clarity on this from 
Legal & General but unfortunately we havent received a response. I dont think that matters 
though because I can cover off the potential situations in this decision.
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. As detailed above, had he been given 
suitable advice I think Mr D would have kept his pension in his Legal & General plan 
invested how it was.
What should Copthorne do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Copthorne must:
If Legal & General hasnt closed any of the funds Mr D was in, compare the performance 
of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown in the table below. If the fair 
value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
investment name status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Cofunds Pension 
Account 
and 
MetLifes Secure 
Income 
Arrangementstill 
existsLegal & General 
Worksave Pension 
Arrangement (as 
previously invested)date of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
If Legal & General has closed any of the funds Mr D was in, compare the performance of 
Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown in the table below. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual 
value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
investment name status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Cofunds Pension 
Account 
and 
MetLifes Secure 
Income 
Arrangementstill 
existsLegal and General 
Worksave Pension 
Arrangement 
(using the 
replacement funds 
Legal and General 
would have used)date of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicableCopthorne should compensation Mr D where possible as described above. It should 
share with Mr D the information it receives from Legal & General about his former funds, 
which ones closed (if any) and what they were replaced with.
If Legal & General has closed any of the funds Mr D was in, and Copthorne isnt able to 
get information on the replacement funds that Legal & General would have used, it 
should compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
in the table below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
investment name status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Cofunds Pension 
Account 
and 
MetLifes Secure 
Income 
Arrangementstill 
existsFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index; 
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
If there is a loss, Copthorne should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Copthorne is unable to pay the compensation into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
If Mr D hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
For reference, actual value means the actual amount payable from the investment at the 
end date. And fair value means what the investment would have been worth at the end date 
had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Copthorne 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months
maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at 
the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mr D paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Copthorne totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking half of his capital.
I think Mr D would have kept his pension where it was had suitable advice been given.
So making comparisons to his former funds (or replacement funds that Legal & General
used when replacing funds) is the most accurate compensation method in my opinion
and should be considered first.
However, if this isnt possible, I think the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a
fair measure given Mr D's circumstances and objectives in this respect. It doesnt mean
that Mr D would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return
a consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
Mr D wanted to achieve capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk on
the other half of this capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr D's
circumstances and risk attitude.
Distress and inconvenience
Our investigator felt Copthorne should pay Mr D £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I dont normally award compensation for the fact a consumer had to complain and bring that 
complaint to us. But I think in this case Mr D suffered a modest amount of distress in seeing 
his overall investment not grow as hed have liked (albeit only from when he discovered this) 
and inconvenience in having to research alternatives as a comparison in order to support his 
complaint. I think £300 is fair compensation in this respect.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Copthorne Financial Services Ltd to:
pay the amount calculated under the Putting things right section above; and
pay Mr D £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman