DRN-3722641
The complaint
Miss D and Mr S complain about poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC when they 
applied to port their mortgage. They say they had to take out a mortgage with another 
lender. Miss D and Mr S ask that Barclays refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) and 
pays compensation for their rental, legal and storage costs and for their distress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss D and Mr S needed to move to a property that better suited their needs. They needed a 
property with no thresholds or changes in levels and with space for use of a wheelchair 
throughout. They found a property and contacted Barclays in late December 2020 about 
porting their mortgage. They say the developer they were buying the property from withdrew 
in April 2021 due to delays by Barclays. 
Miss D and Mr S say despite their purchase falling through they felt obligated to sell their 
property, which no longer suited to their needs. They werent able to find temporary 
accommodation suitable for their needs, which caused them difficulty over several months. 
Miss D and Mr S found another property to buy. However, the property was given a zero 
valuation as Barclays didnt accept the builders warranty being offered. Miss D and Mr S 
challenged this, but say they didnt get a response from Barclays until September 2021. By 
that time, theyd applied to another lender.
Barclays offered £450 compensation which Miss D and Mr S said isnt enough. They say 
Barclays reneged on an offer to compensate them for their costs (about £10,000). They say 
it should refund the ERC.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclays refund the ERC, saying it was Miss D and 
Mr Ss choice to sell their property when they did. He said Barclays should pay 
compensation of £650, which it agreed to do. Miss D and Mr S didnt agree. And so the 
complaint has come to me, an ombudsman to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D and Mr S have repaid their mortgage with Barclays and taken out a mortgage with 
another lender. I need to decide what compensation, if any, Barclays should pay for the 
problems they experienced when they applied to port their mortgage. 
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The compensation Miss D and Mr S ask for falls into three categories. A refund of their legal, 
rent and storage costs. A refund of the ERC. And compensation for their upset and 
inconvenience.
Legal, rent and storage costs
Miss D and Mr S say Barclays should pay their legal, rent and storage costs because its 
delays caused their first purchase to fall through. They say Barclays offered to pay the costs 
and then reneged on this. Barclays final response letter says it would consider covering the 
costs on receipt of evidence. It said something similar to Miss D by phone  that it would 
look to re-imburse costs with evidence and authority from more senior managers. Barclays 
told us due to the amount Miss D and Mr S were asking for (about £10,000) it needed clear 
evidence about why the developer withdrew from the sale, and about their application to a 
different lender. It said it hadnt received this when the complaint came to us.
I think its reasonable for Barclays to want evidence of why the developer withdrew  that 
this was due to delays or errors by Barclays. Miss D provided a letter from their solicitor 
confirming that the developer withdrew from the sale in mid-April 2021. This doesnt say why 
the developer withdrew, only that it did. Miss D asked her solicitor if there was more 
information about this. Frustratingly, the developer didnt say why he withdrew from the sale.
Miss D says the property was built by a small developer and all formal contact was through 
solicitors, so she cant provide evidence direct from the developer. She says she was 
chased almost daily throughout January and February 2021 by the developers agent. She 
says the developer threatened to withdraw in early February 2021 due to Barclays delays 
and Barclays delay with the re-inspection was the final straw.
It seems from what Miss D says that the developer put considerable pressure on Miss D and 
Mr S  even in January at the beginning of the application and conveyancing process. This 
must have been stressful, as is clear from Miss Ds messages to Barclays. 
Miss D and Mr S first applied to port their mortgage in late December 2020. They had an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser on 28 December 2020. I appreciate that Miss D and 
Mr S were porting their mortgage and borrowing less, but Barclays still needed to assess 
their application. Their circumstances could have changed since they took out their existing 
mortgage. And it needed to decide whether the property was good security for the loan. The 
underwriters were entitled to ask for further information and documents (which Miss D and 
Mr S provided promptly) and time to review what they received. The valuation was carried 
out on 2 March 2021 and Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 5 March 2021. 
The mortgage offer was subject to a re-inspection of the property prior to completion. The 
mortgage offer says in addition to the re-inspection it required a ten-year builders certificate 
or a professional consultants certificate produced by an architect valid for a minimum of six 
years.
Miss D and Mr Ss solicitor wrote to Barclays on 26 March 2021 saying the property will be 
ready for re-inspection on 13 April. Barclays says it required the architects certificate before 
instructing the re-inspection. Theres no evidence it told the solicitor it needed the architects 
certificate before the re-inspection. Barclays notes say it didnt receive the certificate, and 
Miss D and Mr S werent able to provide it as it wasnt yet ready. The developer withdrew 
from the sale in mid-April 2021.
Barclays said there were delays with its underwriting process, and its clear the application 
process took longer than Miss D and Mr S had hoped. Miss D and Mr S say the delay with 
the re-inspection  on top of previous delays by Barclays  was the reason the developer 
withdrew from the sale. Unfortunately, Miss D cant provide evidence this was the reason the developer withdrew and their purchase fell through. Its possible there was another reason 
for the developer withdrawing. 
Miss D and Mr S say they felt an obligation to continue with their sale, which was part of a 
chain. And they wanted to sell their property as it was no longer suitable for their needs. I 
can understand this. Of course, they had to balance this against knowing theyd need to 
move into rented accommodation while they bought a property, with the inconvenience and 
costs this involved. And risk having to pay the ERC if they were unable to complete on a 
purchase within the porting period. Ultimately, it was Miss D and Mr Ss decision to go 
ahead with the sale. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay 
Miss D and Mr Ss costs.
Early repayment charge
Miss D and Mr S sold the property and repaid their mortgage. They paid an ERC of about 
£15,000. 
Miss D and Mr S found a new property and made a second application to Barclays in April 
2021. The application notes say you are unable to port as your new purchase will not 
complete within 90 days of sale of your existing property.
There were some problems with this application. The property was given a zero valuation in 
late May 2021 as the builders warranty wasnt on Barclays approved list. The mortgage 
adviser confirmed in late May 2021 that a different warranty would be provided. On this basis 
the valuer provided an amended valuation. Miss D says the original warranty was standard 
and did meet Barclays lending policy. She sent an email to Barclays on 8 June 2021 
explaining this. Barclays didnt respond. Nor did it process the mortgage application. Miss D 
says having heard nothing for weeks they suddenly received a mortgage offer in September 
2021, and this is supported by Barclays internal notes.
But while there were errors with the second application this wasnt the reason Miss D and 
Mr S paid the ERC. They were aware from the outset that this purchase wouldnt complete 
within the porting window (90 days from when they repaid their mortgage). Even if Barclays 
hadnt made the errors, theyd have had to bear the cost of the ERC. 
Miss D and Mr S took mortgage advice and applied to another lender on 24 June 2021. They 
received a mortgage offer on 7 July 2021 and their purchase completed on 21 September 
2021. Although Miss D and Mr S had the inconvenience of applying elsewhere (albeit this 
proceeded smoothly), the evidence suggests they secured a lower fixed interest rate than 
offered by Barclays.
When Miss D and Mr S took out a fixed rate product they agreed to the terms, including the 
ERC. Barclays applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and 
conditions. Barclays made errors here. But I dont think these errors make it fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to refund the ERC.
Upset and inconvenience 
Barclays accepts that it made errors and caused delays with Miss D and Mr Ss first porting 
application. While its not clear this was the reason the purchase fell through, it would have 
caused inconvenience and upset to Miss D and Mr S during their sale and purchase, which 
is often a stressful time. And Barclays failed to process their second application. Ultimately, 
Miss D and Mr S applied elsewhere and it seems secured a better rate. But they were caused some inconvenience in starting a second application with Barclays and trying to sort 
out the problem with the builders warranty. 
As I said its not clear from the evidence that Barclays delays were the cause of Miss D and 
Mr Ss first purchase falling through. And it was their decision to go ahead with their sale 
knowing theyd need to move into temporary accommodation with the inconvenience this 
would involve. 
Barclays offered £450 for poor service. It agreed to pay £650 as recommended by our 
investigator. I think for the unnecessary inconvenience and upset caused by its errors, this is 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £650 to 
Miss D and Mr S. It can deduct any amount already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman