DRN-4069217
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms B opened a shopping account with Shop Direct in October 2017. Her account limit was 
initially low - £600. Over the course of the next four years Ms Bs account limit was increased 
eight times until, in May 2021, it was £3,950.
Ms B says that Shop Direct shouldnt have lent to her. She says that Shop Direct should 
have consulted her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was 
affordable for her. 
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Ms B  and when it 
increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Bs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Ms B was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was increased, 
Shop Direct didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so.
 
Our adjudicator said that Shop Direct should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Ms B.
 
Shop Direct didnt agree. It said that Ms B didnt miss any payments and that the 
management of her account was good. 
As Shop Direct didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Ms Bs complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Ms Bs income and expenditure. There may even come a point 
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
When Ms B opened her account in October 2017, Shop Direct has told us there were no 
signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did.  Having reviewed the checks, I am 
not sure they apply to the account in question. The account start date is given as February 
2015 and may apply to an account opened earlier which isnt part of this complaint, although 
the account number is the same. The checks show nothing of concern which might have 
indicated Ms B might struggle to meet repayments on the relatively small opening limit of 
£600. But given my concerns about the validity of this data Ive also reviewed the data Shop 
Direct received from two credit information providers. While this data starts from the month 
after Ms B opened her account in 2017, I think it gives a reasonable picture of her 
circumstances around that time. I can see that Ms B had a rather large number of credit 
accounts (14) and that she was repaying about £700 a month on credit commitments. There 
were no identified arrears on any of her accounts in the preceding year and she had only a 
£6 balance on her credit cards. The checks didnt provide any information about Ms Bs 
income or expenditure but given Ms B appeared to be managing her finances well at this 
point, I dont think that means Shop Direct acted unfairly. Sustainable repayments if Ms B 
used her entire balance would have been around £30 a month and I think at this early stage 
it was reasonable for Shop Direct to think that this was affordable for Ms B and that Shop 
Direct did sufficient checks to establish this.
However, in October 2018 Shop Direct increased Ms Bs credit limit by almost 100% to 
£1,100. At this point I think Shop Direct ought to have done more to establish the increased 
credit was affordable for Ms B. It still didnt know her income or expenditure and her credit 
files showed that shed significantly increased her borrowing on her credit cards and had 
taken on four additional credit accounts in the preceding 12 months. While Shop Direct 
submits that Ms B was managing her account well, I dont think this was enough. I think 
Shop Direct needed to gain a better understanding of Ms Bs financial situation.
Ms B has provided evidence of her financial circumstances at the time of the limit increase. 
Different checks may show different things and I cant be certain what checks Shop Direct 
might have done. But in the absence of any further information from Shop Direct I think its 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information provided by Ms B.
From the information provided by Ms B in the form of bank statements and her credit file I 
can see that she had an average disposable monthly income after all her financial 
commitments were met of around £97. Ms B was not utilising all her existing available credit 
from multiple sources and had she done so her disposable income would have been nil. I 
dont think Ms B had sufficient disposable income for her to take on any more credit and be 
able to repay it sustainably in a reasonable time. Although Shop Direct argues that Ms B was 
managing her repayments well, often paying more than the minimum repayment, it doesnt 
follow that Ms B could afford the credit. Ms B has indicated that she was borrowing from 
other sources to meet her commitments and her credit file would appear to bear that out.
 
On the information available to me I dont think Shop Direct did reasonable or proportionate 
checks when it increased Ms Bs credit limit in October 2018 and I think Ms B lost out as a 
result. I havent seen anything to suggest Ms Bs circumstances changed significantly in the 
following years, so I am satisfied that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided her with the 
seven later increases, either.Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Shop Direct to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Ms B as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have been 
increased from October 2017 onwards, therefore Shop Direct should rework the account 
and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 20 October 2018 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, Shop Direct can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £600  this being the 
credit limit before 20 October 2018.
Shop Direct should work out how much Ms B would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Ms B made since 2o October 2018 should be used to 
reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Ms B 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Ms B no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from 20 October 2018. 
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange and 
affordable payment plan with Ms B for the outstanding amount. If any debt was sold 
to a third party, Shop Direct should either repurchase the debt or liaise with the third-
party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Ms B had cleared the balance, 
any adverse information as a result of the unfair lending should be removed from the 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Shop Direct acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Ms B on 20 October 
2018. To put this right I direct Shop Direct & Company Limited to pay compensation as 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman