DRN-3114407
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) was unsuitable.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment, a copy 
of which was sent to both parties. In brief, Mrs J had said St Pauls Marketing had cold called 
her in 2016 and arranged an appointment with an adviser at her home to review her 
pensions.
Mrs J said she had wanted to buy a new car, and was advised to take tax-free cash and 
invest the remainder of her pension in Just Loans debentures through a SIPP. She 
transferred the value of her personal pension, approximately £24,550, to the SIPP in July 
2016. And after taking tax free cash, £17,902 was transferred to a stockbroking account and 
the majority invested in the debentures. 
Mrs J, through her representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited in 2019. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the 
complaint. The representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked 
Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into 
account. However, no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that at the time that the adviser met with Mrs J she was approaching 
aged 60; her normal retirement date was 65; she was employed earning approximately 
£10,000 a year; had no disposable income; had personal loans under arrangement; had no 
savings or investments of note; had little investment experience apart from her pensions and 
a low attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
The investigator noted that Mrs J had said that St Pauls Marketing had advised her and the 
SIPP provider had confirmed she had been introduced to it by St Pauls, who were involved 
in the promotion of certain investments. The investigator said that having spoken with Mrs J 
and looking at her personal circumstances and financial status, she thought it was highly 
unlikely that Mrs J would have known or understood what the debentures were or the risks 
involved. She thought it was likely that Mrs J would have been guided by the adviser and 
followed what she was asked to do. 
The investigator said that she thought, given the information provided about the debentures 
in the Information Memorandum, that the debentures presented a higher risk than Mrs J 
could tolerate. She said they had limited liquidity, were listed on a smaller market, provided 
little flexibility and provided no diversity. 
The investigator said that on the balance of the evidence provided, she thought St Pauls 
Marketing had recommended the investment to Mrs J. She didnt think it likely that Mrs J 
would have known about or sought out this type of investment without it being proposed to 
her.
The investigator said that even if St Pauls Marketing hadnt made a recommendation, COBS 
10 applied (the FCAs Conduct of Business rules). She said this provided:
When providing a service [] a firm must ask the client to provide information regarding his
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or
service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or
product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to
the product or service offered or demanded.
The investigator said if St Pauls Marketing had assessed appropriateness it would have 
identified that this type of investment wasnt suitable for Mrs J. She also said St Pauls 
Marketing was obliged to act with due care and diligence and should have considered what 
was in Mrs Js best interests. 
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld and she went on to set out how 
she thought the firm should calculate and pay fair compensation.
The investigator sent her view of the complaint to Alexander David. It didnt respond. The 
investigator wrote to both parties on 6 October 2021 to say the complaint would be passed 
to an ombudsman to consider. Mrs J said she accepted the investigators findings. No further 
evidence ort arguments were provided by Alexander David.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mrs Js original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer (technically known as a switch) and investment. Ive carefully 
considered the evidence that is available. The investigator set out her thoughts on the matter 
in her assessment, and Alexander David hasnt disputed what she said or provided any 
further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset and following its input Mrs J transferred her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mrs Js 
background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this 
type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
When Mrs J complained to Alexander David she said it had recommended her to transfer 
and invest in unsuitable investments. The investigator said she thought St Pauls had 
recommended the transaction and didnt think the advice was suitable. The firm hasnt 
disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance of the limited evidence thats 
available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise Mrs J to transfer 
her pension and invest in the debentures. As explained by the investigator, the debentures 
were listed on a smaller market  on a smaller overseas exchange. The firm behind them 
were operating in a relatively new market and had a limited track record. In my view investing the majority of Mrs Js pension in a single asset increased the degree of risk the 
transaction presented. Overall, I think the transfer and investment into the debentures 
presented significant risks, and beyond the degree of risk Mrs J was willing or had the 
capacity to accept. Accordingly, I think the advice was unsuitable given Mrs J has said she 
was a low risk investor, had little capacity for loss and had no investment experience. 
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mrs J, I think the evidence shows it 
was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable 
security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Js knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demanded so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her. Mrs 
J said she had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this.
The debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mrs J 
given her knowledge and experience, and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing. 
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the 
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mrs J. I think Mrs J was entitled to rely on St 
Pauls Marketings judgement, yet it failed to provide suitable advice. And in failing to ensure 
the investment was appropriate for Mrs J, I dont think St Pauls Marketing acted in Mrs Js 
best interests which it was required to do under the Regulators Principles for Business.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mrs J to transfer and invest in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent suitable or appropriate for her, she wouldnt 
have transferred and invested in them. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mrs J to transfer and 
invest in a product that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mrs J has claimed
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs J as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mrs J 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would have done, 
but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Js 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mrs J fairly Alexander David Limited should compare the performance of 
Mrs Js investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is 
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mrs Js pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Js pension plan it should pay that amount direct to her. My understanding is that Mrs J has closed her 
SIPP. In that case it should be paid to Mrs J direct. 
But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Js 
actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
I think Mrs J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs J would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investment
name     Status    BenchmarkFrom
(start date)To
(end date)Additional interest
SIPP Closed for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate the 
debentures 
matured  I 
understand 
18 January 
2019. 
The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at the date the 
debentures matured to 
decision date. Then 8% 
simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mrs Js
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should: 
 Pay Mrs J £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused her. 
 Provide details of the calculation to Mrs J in a clear, simple format. 
 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities limited 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs J how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs J a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the date the debentures matured - I 
understand 18 January 2019.Fair value 
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges deducted on 
transfer would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark. Any 
additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the point 
in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the 
SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mrs J has said that she wanted a low risk investment which appears to be consistent with 
her circumstances. Her original pension was invested in a fund with a higher degree of risk, 
so I think with suitable advice she would have remained with her original pension provider 
but switched to a more appropriate fund. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Js risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only 
prepared to take a limited risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs J into that position. It doesnt mean that Mrs J 
would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider 
this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs J could 
have obtained from investments suited to her objectives and risk attitude.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint. I order Alexander David Securities 
Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs J as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman