DRN-3133816
The complaint
Miss U complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway unfairly calculated the 
interest she would need to pay, when she enquired about making an early settlement of a 
hire purchase agreement, she had with it.
What happened
In September 2020, Miss U entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used car 
with Moneyway. The agreement set out that the advance for the car was £8,495, interest 
amounting to £4,353.40 and a £10 option to purchase fee making a total of £12,858.40 to be 
paid. The monthly payments were set at £214.14 for 59 months, and one final payment of 
£224.14 in the 60th month. 
Miss U made her monthly payments as due and, in May 2021, requested an early settlement 
figure from Moneyway as she was in position to clear the balance. Moneyway provided a 
settlement quote setting out that the balance of £11,359.42 was outstanding but, after 
applying an interest rebate of £3,252.73, then Miss U was required to pay £8,106.69 to clear 
the account. The quote was valid for one month.
Miss U was surprised at the amount that was required to settle the account. She said she 
had paid around £1,500 towards the car and thought the settlement figure had been 
miscalculated. Moneyway explained to Miss U that there was no mistake and that the total 
interest payable had been pre-calculated at the start of the agreement, and that the way 
repayments operated was that she would pay more towards the interest at the start of the 
agreement than towards the capital. This would alter as the balance of the capital reduced.
Miss U was unhappy at the explanation she was given and complained to Moneyway. She 
said she hadnt been told that the interest was frontloaded, and this was unfair. Moneyway 
didnt uphold her complaint. It said that this type of agreement was used throughout the 
credit industry, and Miss U could have asked for a statement setting out how her payments 
were allocated if she had wanted more information. Moneyway said Miss U could have also 
asked more questions before she took out the credit agreement.
Moneyway disagreed it had acted inappropriately in the way it had applied the interest 
amount to the agreement, or in the way it had calculated the interest rebate for the 
settlement figure. It said it was usual for the amount of interest to be added to be pre-
calculated and was based on the balance due each month over the life of the agreement. 
Moneyway also said that, once calculated, the interest wasnt then divided equally over the 
contractual payments but would reduce in amount over the life of the agreement, as the 
outstanding balance became less.
Miss U disagreed with Moneyways response and complained to this service. She said that 
the hire purchase agreement didnt set out that the interest would be frontloaded, and she 
believed this was not in accordance with the principles set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).  Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Us complaint should be 
upheld.
Our investigator said the hire purchase agreement had been operated in the usual way, with 
the total interest due calculated at the start. He said that Miss Us agreement with Moneyway 
was that she made fixed payments each month. And because of that, and as the interest 
was calculated on the outstanding balance each month, with a five-year agreement at an 
APR of 19.2% then, for at least the first year, the proportion of interest paid was more than 
the capital.
Our investigator said there was no need for Moneyway to have explained this in detail to 
Miss U. He said that it was open to Miss U to have asked more questions.
Miss U was unhappy at our investigators view. She said it was unfair that the onus was on 
her to request a payment schedule that would set out how her payments were being 
allocated to the interest and capital. Miss U said she didnt think the hire purchase 
agreement had been clear enough about how the interest would be applied.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that of the £1,499 paid by Miss U under the agreement at the time shed requested 
the settlement figure, £399 had gone towards clearing the capital and £1,100 had gone 
towards clearing the interest. And, while I can appreciate why Miss U feels this is unfair, I 
cant reasonably say that its unusual for a larger proportion of a monthly payment to go 
towards to paying the interest than the capital at the start of a credit agreement. However, 
over time as the capital balance reduces, then more of the payment clears the capital. This 
system also means that monthly payments are kept at the same amount making repayments 
simpler.
Miss U says that it was unfair she wasnt made aware of this and feels this breaches the 
principles of the FCA. She says the onus shouldnt be on her to make enquiries about how 
an agreement is going to operate. But, looking at the hire purchase agreement, Ive seen 
that it says the interest rate has been applied to the amount of credit at the outset to 
calculate the total interest due and that Miss U was entitled to ask for a schedule that would 
break down how her payments would be applied during the credit agreements life.
Although this will be of disappointment to Miss U, I disagree that Moneyway should have 
provided her with more information than it did in the hire purchase agreement. The 
agreement has set out the amount of credit, the amount of interest added, the APR applied, 
the length of the agreement and the repayments due. Looking at the FCA rules as to what 
information should be provided to consumer when taking out a regulated credit agreement, I 
cant see that anything is missing. I also have to take into account that the way this 
agreement was operated was common and I think its reasonable to say Miss U may have 
struggled to find a credit agreement that didnt operate in this way. 
So, Im satisfied that Moneyway wasnt acting unfairly by not setting out in detail how Miss 
Us payments would be proportioned over the life of the agreement. It had informed her of 
her right to make that enquiry if she wished, and shed also signed the hire purchase 
agreement confirming that shed had an opportunity to ask any questions.
Ive also seen that when calculating the settlement figure Moneyway says it applied the 
formula set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) regulations 2004. This calculates 
the interest rebate due if the agreement is paid off early and here amounted to £3,252.73, had Miss U chosen to settle the account in June 2021. As this calculation is in accordance 
with legislation, I cant reasonably say Moneyway has acted unfairly in how it reached the 
settlement figure due.
While I appreciate Miss U feels strongly that Moneyway has acted unfairly in the way it 
proportioned her repayments, and calculated the settlement figure, Im afraid I dont agree. I 
am satisfied she was supplied with sufficient information and that Moneyway didnt do 
anything unfairly or inappropriately with regard to the hire purchase agreement it supplied to 
Miss U. And, for the reasons given, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman