DRN-3714280
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC approved him for a loan amount greater than the 
amount he applied for. Mr E is also unhappy that Lloyds didnt provide him with a copy of the 
loan agreement and also wouldnt accept the return of the loan funds without penalty outside 
of the 14-day cooling off period.
What happened
Mr E applied for a personal loan of £2,500 with Lloyds. His application was approved, and 
the loan was granted. However, a few months later Mr E noticed that several monthly 
repayments of £746.95 had left his account, meaning that hed already repaid more than the 
£2,500 hed borrowed. 
Mr E contacted Lloyds about this and was told that hed applied for and been approved for a 
loan for £25,000, and not for £2,500. Lloyds also explained to Mr E that the 14-day cooling 
off period for the loan had now passed, meaning that if Mr E wanted to repay the remaining 
balance of the loan in full he would incur charges as per the loan agreement. Mr E wasnt 
happy about this, especially as hed never received a copy of the loan agreement which 
detailed the 14-day cooling off period, and so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Es complaint. They confirmed that Mr E had applied for a £25,000 
personal loan and they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr E in how theyd 
managed this situation. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr E wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Lloyds had 
acted unfairly in considering the 14-day cooling off period to have expired, and so they also 
didnt uphold this complaint. Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems apparent that while Mr E may have believed he was applying for a 
loan of only £2,500, he did in fact apply for a loan of £25,000. And I find it difficult to 
conclude anything other than that Mr E should have been aware of this fact.
This is because the loan amount of £25,000 and the loan repayment information, including 
the term of the loan and the monthly repayment amount of £746.95, would have been 
displayed to Mr E for his confirmation before he formally accepted the loan. And it was the 
responsibility of Mr E to have fully understood the terms of the loan that he was applying for.
Lloyds have also confirmed that they provided a copy of the loan agreement to Mr E online 
upon his confirming his acceptance of the loan, and this loan agreement also confirmed the 
terms of the loan as well as the fact that Mr E had a 14-day cooling off period if he wanted to 
cancel the loan without penalty.
Mr E has explained that he never received a copy of the loan agreement. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this wasnt provided to Mr E by Lloyds as per their process. And I 
feel that if it were the case that Mr E didnt receive a copy of the loan agreement or access to 
one, that the onus then resided with Mr E to have contacted Lloyds and asked for a copy of 
the loan agreement for the loan he had just taken. 
Additionally, I dont feel that Mr E potentially not receiving the loan agreement means that he 
shouldnt reasonably have been aware of the size of the loan hed been granted, given that, 
as explained previously, information about the size of the loan would have been provided to 
Mr E during the loan application process.
It also must be noted that having agreed to the loan, Mr E then received the amount of 
£25,000 into his Lloyds current account  and not the amount of £2,500. I feel that the 
receipt of such an unexpectedly large amount into his account should reasonably have been 
noticed by Mr E, and should have prompted Mr E to have challenged the particulars of the 
loan with Lloyds at that stage, which would have been within the 14-day cooling off period.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Lloyds have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly towards Mr E as he feels is the case. This is because Im satisfied Lloyds approved 
Mr E for the loan amount that he applied for, whether correctly on Mr Es behalf or not. And 
because I feel that Mr E should reasonably have been aware of the size of the loan hed 
taken from Lloyds, such that Im satisfied that Mr E did have a fair opportunity to cancel the 
loan without penalty within the 14-day cooling off period had he wanted to do so  which in 
this case he didnt.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr E was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I trust that Mr E will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman