DRN-4426194
The complaint
Mr H complained because he felt one of Pensionhelp Limiteds advisors gave him insufficient 
advice and information in respect of transferring his defined benefit (DB) pension.
What happened
Mr H had a DB pension with a previous employer. His retirement plan, based on the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB pension, in summary was to:
retire at 55
transfer his DB pension to a drawdown arrangement and combine that with other defined 
contribution (DC) pensions so that everything was in place when he turned 55
live off his self-employed income and savings until he turned 55
take income from his pension from age 55 in the form of drawdown, which would be 
supplemented by the state pension from age 67.
Mr H contacted Pensionhelp in September 2021 to facilitate the transfer of his DB pension. 
He gave the advisor some basic information about his financial position and said the CETV 
of the DB pension was £540,000 and the DC pensions were worth £120,000. The advisor 
said:
the starting position from a regulatory perspective was that Mr H should remain in the DB 
pension unless it could be shown that transferring was in his best interests
he could look into giving Mr H advice now or leave it until Mr H was closer to 55
it might be challenging to recommend transferring the DB pension at the moment as he 
would need Mr H to have sufficient secure income elsewhere, particularly as he couldnt 
access the pension at that time
Mr Hs circumstances and objectives might change between now and when Mr H turned 
55.
Ultimately, the advisor said it would be easier for him to justify a recommendation to transfer 
if Mr H was closer to retirement because he could do direct comparisons with exactly what 
he would get from the DB pension. In respect of the CETV, the advisor made the general 
point that transfer values arent guaranteed to go up and they could go down  although he 
said that was the same if Mr H transferred the DB pension to a private pension and invested 
it ie the pension might grow or might decrease.
Various other potential options were discussed, but it was left that Mr H would contact the 
advisor again around six months before he turned 55.
Mr H received an updated CETV in July 2022 and he spoke to the advisor again. The CETV 
had dropped by 30% and as his preferred option was to take drawdown Mr H said hed lost 
10 years of pension income as his money would now run out when hes 79 instead of 89. He 
said if hed known of this volatility and that CETVs could drop by this much he would have 
taken his money when they last spoke.
The advisor said Mr H hadnt lost anything in respect of his DB pension as it was 
guaranteed. He also said the change in CETV wasnt something that could be controlled as 
it was just a snapshot of an offer at a particular time to give up the guaranteed pension. The 
advisor again suggested it was probably better to wait until Mr H was closer to 55 and see 
what the numbers looked like at that point because an annuity wasnt an option as Mr H 
wasnt 55 and it was a very short period to be invested in the markets given the present 
volatility. Mr H said the problem with that option was the CETV will be lower and he couldnt 
then afford to retire and he wouldnt have any savings left.
Mr H complained to Pensionhelp in August 2022. He said it was never explained in the 
original conversation that CETVs could vary significantly, and no analysis was done to show 
whether the original CETV represented a good offer compared to the benefits provided by 
the DB pension. He also felt the original conversation should have included a discussion 
about the mechanics of CETVs increasing and decreasing. Ultimately, during the first call 
Mr H felt he should have been:
told about the risks to transfer values so that the risk could be evaluated against the 
backdrop of the financial climate
given an explanation as to what his choices were rather than leaving him to believe that 
he had no option other than to wait until he was 55, and
offered an initial review.
Pensionhelp didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it never advised Mr H in respect 
of his DB pension  the initial call was a discussion about Mr Hs circumstances and 
Pensionhelps service, and it was agreed that Mr H wouldnt take it further at that point. It 
also said the advisor told Mr H in the original call that transfer values go up and down. 
Pensionhelp added that if Mr H had requested a review it would have been likely that a 
transfer was unsuitable so it felt he would have been in the same position regardless (and 
would have had to pay for its advice).
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below and form part of this 
final decision.
Mr H was introduced to Pensionhelp by another financial advisor. He then made an 
enquiry to Pensionhelp via its website and the advisor emailed him to arrange a time to 
speak to see if Pensionhelp could be of assistance. I concluded from this that the call 
was set up to be introductory in nature to see if Pensionhelp could help Mr H. I was also 
satisfied that the conversation proceeded along those lines.
The advisor never gave Mr H any formal advice during the call in respect of whether 
transferring his DB pension was in his best interest  things never got that far, and 
wouldnt have during an introductory call. That meant the advisor wasnt required to carry 
out an in-depth investigation into things like:
oMr Hs objectives and/or needs
othe pros/cons/risks of the DB pension versus a DC pension or drawdown
oother options that were available
owhether the CETV represented good value.
That sort of investigation/consideration/analysis would only have been required if Mr H 
chose to get full advice.The only advice the advisor gave was the suggestion that Mr H wait until he was closer 
to 55 to get formal advice as it would be easier to justify a recommendation to transfer. 
While the drop in CETV was the catalyst for Mr Hs complaint, I thought this advice was 
the nub of it. Accordingly, I thought the central issues were whether the advisor treated 
Mr H fairly:
oin respect of the information he provided during the initial conversation and
oin suggesting that he wait a couple of years before getting formal advice.
I didnt think any of the information the advisor gave Mr H was untrue or unreasonable. 
Given the regulatory position  and having dealt with numerous complaints where 
consumers were advised to transfer their DB pensions  I confirmed that it was difficult 
for advisors to justify a recommendation to transfer. I didnt therefore think the advisor 
treated Mr H unfairly by putting him on notice that any advice would probably be to not 
transfer, and that that would make it difficult for Mr H to transfer if he chose to proceed 
against the advice given. Given that likely outcome, and the fact the cost of the advice 
would have been around £13,000, I didnt think the advisor treated Mr H unfairly by 
suggesting that he contact him closer to age 55. The alternative would have been to lead 
Mr H into receiving full advice  which would have resulted in him paying £13,000 to 
potentially be in the same position.
Mr Hs main point in respect of the information he was given related to him not being told 
about the volatility of CETVs or the amount of risk he would be taking with the CETV if 
he didnt transfer there and then. The advisor said transfer values could go up or down  
although he didnt go into any detail as to by how much this could be. But as the call was 
introductory I wasnt persuaded that the advisor needed to go into such finer details or 
that he treated Mr H unfairly by not doing so.
Mr Hs argument also supposed that he would have been able to transfer the DB pension 
if hed been told that the CETV could drop significantly. He had since transferred the 
pension, but that was at a different point in time with a different set of circumstances eg 
he was closer to 55, the different CETV. The overall gist of what the advisor said during 
the initial call was that he probably wouldnt recommend a transfer and that Mr H might 
find it hard to find a provider who would be willing to accept the transfer when he was 
acting contrary to the advice hed received. So while it would never be known, it wasnt 
entirely clear that Mr H would have been able to transfer in any event.
Mr H said that an initial (free) review, via what Pensionhelp described as a triage 
process, that he was offered in the second call should have been offered in the first call. I 
didnt think that helped his case. Pensionhelp wasnt under any obligation to offer Mr H a 
review ie it didnt have to accept him as a client for purposes of reviewing and/or advising 
on his pension. But even if Mr H was offered an initial review I wasnt persuaded it would 
have led to him being in a different position. That was because he would only have been 
able to transfer his pension if he received full advice. One outcome of the triage process 
was that Mr H would have received full advice from Pensionhelp. But he would have 
faced the same situation and hurdle outlined above about getting full advice (which might 
have been to not transfer) and then potentially not being able to find a provider who 
would accept the transfer. The other outcome was that Mr H would have received 
abridged (or short-form) advice. Abridged advice could only have resulted in two 
outcomes  a recommendation to not transfer the pension or telling Mr H it was unclear 
whether or not he would benefit from a transfer based on the information collected during 
the abridged advice process. So Mr H would still either have received advice to not 
transfer or faced the same situation as above regarding full advice.In summary, I accepted what Mr H had said about the information and advice given to him 
leaving him with the impression that it was too early and too difficult to transfer and that there 
was no big risk by leaving it until later  which led to him delaying any decision on 
transferring the DB pension, which in turn meant the CETV had dropped when he later 
transferred his DB pension. However, for the reasons outlined above, I concluded that 
Pensionhelp didnt treat him unfairly by giving him the information and advice it did.
Responses to my provisional decision
Pensionhelp said it had nothing further to add.
Mr H said Pensionhelps advice  in respect of contacting it again when he was closer to 55 
and that transferring out of a DB scheme prior to then was difficult  wasnt clear. He also 
said the extent of any risk in waiting to transfer wasnt explained and left him exposed to that 
risk, which he could have avoided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, Mr Hs comments in response to my provisional decision are essentially the 
same as the ones he made in his original complaint to Pensionhelp ie the lack of a clear 
explanation in respect of the risk in waiting to transfer and of the choices he had. As I 
addressed these in my provisional decision I dont have anything further to add. I 
nevertheless summarise for completeness:
the advisor didnt have to investigate or consider Mr Hs objectives and/or needs, the 
comparison between the DB pension and a DC pension/drawdown, other options or 
whether the CETV represented good value
the information the advisor gave Mr H was correct and reasonable and the advisor didnt 
treat Mr H unfairly by suggesting that he wait until he was nearer 55
the advisor didnt need to go into the finer details in respect of the volatility of CETVs or 
the amount of risk Mr H would be taking with the CETV if he didnt transfer there and 
then
Pensionhelp wasnt under any obligation to offer Mr H a review (such as the one it 
offered following the second call), but even if it had offered one I dont think it would have 
led to him being in a different position.
Accordingly, it remains my conclusion that Pensionhelp didnt treat Mr H unfairly by giving 
him the information and advice it did.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman