DRN-1653786
 
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a block being placed on his account.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
NewDay put a block on Mr Ms account in April 2019 because a retailer hed used 
had been compromised. But Mr M was able to continue using his card until about a 
month later when a transaction didnt go through. Hes unhappy about this and that 
he wasnt told by NewDay about his card being blocked.
I understand Mr Ms frustration at whats happened. But its important that businesses 
like NewDay have processes and procedures in place to try to identify fraud and 
 transactions that arent genuine. Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers, like Mr M, may be inconvenienced by them, but thats not to say 
that NewDay shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have followed them as 
it did here.
Mr M says NewDay shouldve contacted him about the block on his account. But it 
says this type of block doesnt require it to do so, it doesnt have the resources to do 
so and that isnt part of its security procedure. Its up to NewDay to decide how it 
operates its security procedures and when it contacts a customer so its approach 
here doesnt seem unreasonable.
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator and we cant require a business to change 
its practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry works 
are a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr M also says the block meant he wasnt able to access his credit limit. But that isnt 
the case. Although NewDay was monitoring Mr Ms transactions and may have 
intervened in some which it deemed were a potential risk, his credit limit was still 
available on the card for approved transactions. 
Overall I dont think NewDay has acted wrongly or unreasonably in placing the block 
on Mr Ms account in line with its processes. And it wasnt obliged to contact him 
about it. So, although I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling, I dont think I can fairly 
or reasonably require NewDay to do anything more or differently, including changing 
its procedures as Mr M would like.
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about NewDay Limited (trading as 
Amazon Card).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman