DRN-4246248
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the advice given by Dobson & Hodge Limited (D&H) to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs T approached D&H in January 2018 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Mr T 
was already a customer of D&H and in previous meetings where his own pension was 
discussed, the adviser suggested Mrs Ts pension could be transferred due to her ill-health.
D&H completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ts circumstances and 
objectives. D&H also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ts attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be cautious to moderate. 
On 8 January 2018, D&H advised Mrs T to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds into the funds set out below:
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mrs T was concerned about her health and expects to have a lower than average life 
expectancy
She intends to retire before her normal retirement date and is seeking the ability to 
take benefits in a flexible manner
The flexibility to draw higher benefits in her early years of retirement was important
Later in life her pension would be surplus to required income once her husbands 
pension was in payment and state pension(s)
Mrs T complained in 2022 to D&H about the suitability of the transfer advice because she 
believed she should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme.
D&H acknowledged the complaint but did not issue a final response, so our investigator 
looked into matters.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and required D&H to pay compensation. She 
explained that there was no immediate need to transfer the DB scheme and Mrs T still had 
nine years until she planned to take early retirement. The investigator felt transferring likely 
meant Mrs T would be worse off, and she wouldve been better off remaining in the DB 
scheme and considering her options closer to her planned retirement age. The business did 
not respond and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D&H's actions here:
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D&H should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs 
Ts best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in 
her best interests.
Financial viability 
D&H carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mrs Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.Mrs T was age 46 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 55. The critical yield 
required to match Mrs Ts benefits at age 55 was 6.79%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. I 
have used age 55 as the date of retirement as Mrs T has been consistent on this being her 
objective. However, for completeness the critical yield at 65, the scheme retirement age, was 
4.01%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Ts 
low-medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Mrs T was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement at age 55, 
as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ts best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Mrs T wished to retire early due to ill health, and this seems to have been her motivation in 
seeking advice. In the suitability report D&H did consider the option of early retirement from 
the scheme, confirming this would lead to a reduced pension. D&H also confirmed between 
age 46 and age 55 the benefits from the DB scheme would increase in line with scheme 
increases.
D&H say because of the other income that Mrs T and her husband had, her DB scheme was 
surplus to requirements and could be used to increase their benefits at the start of their 
retirement  as was one of her requirements. However, Mrs T was only age 46 at the time of 
the advice, and whilst shed had ideas about her retirement, these plans werent concrete. 
As Mrs T had nine years before she could think about accessing her pension, I think it was 
too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont 
think it was a suitable recommendation for Mrs T to give up her guaranteed benefits now 
when she didnt know what their needs in retirement would be. If Mrs T later had reason to 
transfer out of the DB scheme she could have done so closer to retirement. There was in my 
view no benefit to transferring at this stage and to be better off Mrs T was relying on 
substantially outperforming market trends over a number of years which given her attitude to 
risk was unlikely.
Furthermore, Mrs T in retirement wouldve likely had access to other sources of money. 
These couldve been used to increase expenditure and income in the early years of 
retirement without losing valuable guarantees and in all likelihood maximising her retirement 
income. And she also had the option to take tax-free cash from the scheme which couldve 
been used to increase expenditure in the early years of retirement.
I acknowledge that it wouldnt be up to an adviser to tell Mrs T that she shouldnt have the 
aim of, for example, retiring early. However, it was the responsibility of D&H to explain to Mrs 
T why she didnt need to make an irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable 
safeguarded benefits at that time. And the pension transfer was a decision that could be 
delayed until she got closer to retirement and had a clearer idea of her needs.Mrs T had been in hospital around the time of the advice, and there were concerns about her 
health. But unless a person is given a terminal diagnosis with less than 12 months to live, 
which doesnt apply here  there would be no benefit in transferring benefits early. As they 
wouldnt be accessible to at earliest age 55 in any event.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential to release more cash earlier than 
through the DB scheme would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs T. But D&H 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs T might have thought she needed. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs T needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs T was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this at the time.  
Im not persuaded that Mrs Ts concerns about her health were so great that she wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she had sought 
out didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. 
In light of the above, I think D&H should compensate Mrs T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs T, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs T would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
D&H must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs T planned to retire at age 55. So, compensation should be based on her 
taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ts acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, D&H should:
calculate and offer Mrs T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs T before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs T receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs T accepts D&Hs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs T for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, D&H may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs 
Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% . So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Dobson & Hodge 
Limited to pay Mrs T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Dobson & Hodge Limited pays Mrs T the balance.
If Mrs T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Dobson & Hodge 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman