DRN-2131234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service they received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. All references to UKI include agents 
acting on their behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were on holiday with their son and his girlfriend. Mr M was involved in a 
serious accident and was admitted to hospital as an emergency. 
Mr and Mrs M are extremely unhappy with the level of service they received from UKI which 
they feel failed them in virtually every regard. UKI has issued a number of responses to Mr 
and Mrs Ms complaint points. Theyve offered a total of £850 compensation and paid around 
£300 of expenses which fell outside the policy terms. Unhappy with UKIs response Mr and 
Mrs M complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought that UKI had acknowledged a 
number of errors and there had been failings in the service provided. But, overall, she 
thought UKI had done enough to put things right by offering substantial compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary, they said that their key complaint and frustration is about 
the catastrophic failure of UKIs service in a life and death situation. The want UKI to be held 
accountable in a meaningful way so that they are motivated to provide a safe and acceptable 
level of service. Mrs M says that the outcome for her husband, from a health point of view, 
was entirely due to her management of the situation. 
So I need to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Its not in dispute that there were a catalogue of errors throughout the handling of this claim. 
That includes, but is not limited to, the following key issues: 
Delays in arranging payment to the hotel where Mrs M stayed
The flight was booked in the wrong name
The details of the repatriation plan werent provided to Mrs M when they should have 
been 
There was a delay in confirming cover 
Mrs M was given the conflicting and incorrect information about the policy benefits 
Delays in assessing medical information 
Issues with poor communication  for example not acknowledging receipt of emails
Mrs M was told not to mention her husbands injury to the airline 
A taxi driver had driven whilst watching TV.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M have made a number of detailed representations and I want 
to reassure them that I have taken all of the circumstances and failings that theyve identified 
into account when reaching my decision. That includes failings UKI has accepted prior to Mr 
and Mrs M referring their complaint to our service. 
However, Im going to focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding issues that I think 
are relevant to the outcome of this complaint which are: 
The validation of Mr Ms claim
The service when Mr M was in hospital prior to his repatriation
The service during the repatriation process 
The overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs M.
I think its important to explain that my role is not to punish UKI or to penalise them. My role 
is to look at what went wrong here and decide whether the compensation UKI has offered is 
fair and reasonable taking into account all of the circumstances. And I have to separate the 
distress and inconvenience of being involved in a serious accident abroad to that which UKI 
has caused as a result of any failings in the service they provided.
Where our service identifies failings Id expect UKI to learn from this and apply any learning 
to its handling of future complaints. But I dont have the power to direct UKI to change its 
processes or procedures. 
I entirely accept that the standard of service Mr and Mrs M received fell well below the 
standard of service they should have received. Its clear that the failings UKI have identified 
and accepted made a traumatic and frightening experience even more stressful and 
upsetting. 
UKI has explained they initially needed access to Mr Ms medical information, and asked for 
a medical consent form, to be completed because they werent sure whether Mr M had fallen 
because of a pre-existing condition. So, they wanted to make sure they could access the 
medical records if needed. Ive looked at the contact notes and can see that Mrs M didnt 
witness the incident and saw her husband surrounded by other skiers, so went to assist him. 
In such circumstances it isnt unusual for an insurer to request information from a GP, in 
which case the consent form would be needed. When further details of Mr Ms 
circumstances came to light, once the medical reports had been received from the treating 
hospital, this confirmed that Mr M had experienced an injury. I dont think it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for UKI to explain that they might need to access Mr Ms 
medical records.
  
Mr M had access to medical treatment and fortunately none of the issues or delays impacted 
on his ability to access to treatment. Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has said about 
this being entirely dependent on her. Mr Ms care was the responsibility of the treating team 
at the hospital but Id expect UKI to have responded to any issues or concerns about that 
appropriately. Based on what Mr and Mrs M have said I dont think there were any concerns 
about the care Mr M was receiving and so Im not persuaded that UKI put his health or 
wellbeing at risk.   Im also satisfied that the repatriation was arranged with appropriate input and oversight from 
UKIs medical team. The notes confirm that they were reviewing information from the 
hospital and keeping up to date on Mr Ms condition. I can also see that the treating team 
agreed to UKIs suggested repatriation plan. There were some delays in arranging the 
repatriation and UKI could have done more to keep Mrs M updated about their plans. But 
overall I think UKI took appropriate steps to ensure Mr Ms repatriation took place safely.
The process for medical clearance from the airline is usually only completed once the flights 
are booked or held for a patient. I can see from the notes that UKI explained that it could 
take up to 72 hours to get medical clearance from an airline. On 1 January 2020 UKI held 
flights for Mr and Mrs M to depart on 3 January 2020. The medical clearance form was sent 
to the airline on the morning of 2 January and it is unclear from UKIs file why it wasnt sent 
sooner. However, the airline agreed the medical clearance on the evening of the 2 January 
and UKI contacted Mrs M to let her know. I can understand that this was a worrying and 
stressful day for Mr and Mrs M, who no doubt were anxious to return home safely, and I can 
understand why they were worried about further delays occurring given their experience with 
UKI during the previous week. But, ultimately, Mr and Mrs M returned as planned.
Mrs M has copies of all the calls she had with UKI and has offered to send them to our 
service. I dont think these calls would ultimately change my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint as I accept that throughout her communication with UKI Mrs M had a 
frustrating and disappointing experience.  
Ive fully considered Mr and Mrs Ms points in relation to the overall impact UKIs failings had 
on them. Whilst Ive only referred to what I think are the key failings Ive taken all of the 
issues Mr and Mrs M have raised into account. Having done so I think UKIs offer of a total of 
£850 compensation, which is in the substantial range for our service, fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I think this offer adequately reflects the multiple failings 
in the service Mr and Mrs M received from UKI.  
UKI has already made an offer to pay £850 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. I understand Mr and Mrs M have been sent cheques for that 
amount already. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. My decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay the 
total of £850 compensation it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman