DRN-1594811
 
The complaint
Ms F complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Ms F took out a further advance on her mortgage with NatWest in July 2010 and at the same 
time purchased a PPI policy which was intended to cover the repayments on her total 
mortgage if she was off work through unemployment, accident or sickness. Prior to this Ms F 
did not have any PPI policy for her mortgage.
Ms F complained that the PPI was mis-sold but NatWest didnt uphold her complaint. 
NatWest also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on 
the premiums and said that the mortgage Ms F took out didnt fall within the rules and 
guidance introduced about this. Therefore, no refund for excess commission was due.
Ms F wasnt happy with NatWests response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Ms F is represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ms F remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Fs case.
Ms F has told us that she was not given full information about the PPI before taking it out. 
She says she never asked any questions about it as she wasnt aware of it at the time. She 
recalls it was sold to her in a meeting. 
The records and information provided by NatWest show that Ms Fs mortgage application 
form was a separate form to the one applying for the PPI. It has been able to provide a copy 
of the PPI application form that Ms F signed on 20 July 2010. I note there is also a 
Received date stamp on the document for the 28 July 2010.
Ms F may have had a meeting with someone about the additional mortgage amount she 
wanted and was sold the PPI. But the date stamp suggests the PPI application was retuned 
in the post to NatWest. As Ms F already had a mortgage without PPI and she completed a totally separate 
application form for the PPI, in addition to a mortgage application form, I think she should 
have been aware the policy was optional. 
I also note Ms F says she wasnt given full information about the cost and benefits. But on 
the applications form the monthly cost of the policy and also the monthly benefit is clearly 
stated. So she should have been aware of this information when she signed the form. 
I dont know fully what information was given to Ms F about the terms and conditions that 
applied to the policy. But looking at Ms Fs circumstances at the time she took out the PPI, I 
think she was eligible to take out the policy. And it doesnt look like she was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So I think the PPI would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong.
Ms Fs employer would pay some sick pay if she was unwell. She has said this was for up to 
12 months. But the PPI wouldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay, meaning Ms F 
could have used her sick pay for other household expenses at what could have been a 
difficult time. 
I also note that Ms F says she had some savings which she could have used to pay her 
mortgage if unable to work. Again any savings could have been used for other expenses and 
may have been essential if Ms F was not working.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI at the time - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. 
From the information Ive seen it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So taking everything 
into account, even if the information provided at the time was not as clear and full as it 
couldve been, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms F off taking 
out the cover.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by NatWest. I think at the time Ms F was aware 
she had a choice whether to take it out and she thought it would be useful to her.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by NatWest. However, the type of mortgage Ms F took 
out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority 
relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
In its final response letter to Ms F on 26 July 2019 NatWest indicated that the PPI policy was 
still active and advised Ms F that she would need to cancel this with the insurer if she no 
longer wanted the policy. NatWest provided contact information in that letter. 
NatWest has told us recently that it remains the case the policy is still running. If Ms F wants 
to cancel it then she will need to take action as advised previously and contact the insurer 
using the information given to her by NatWest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Ms F by National 
Westminster Bank Plc and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.Chris Fraser
Ombudsman