DRN-3187879
The complaint
Mr W complains that the advice given to him by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal), to 
transfer two occupational pension schemes into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
was unsuitable. For this complaint, Mr W is represented by a third party, but for clarity Ill 
refer to all the representations made, and information provided as if coming from Mr W 
himself.
What happened
In 2015 Mr W was approached by Portal to conduct a review of his pension provision. At the 
time of the advice he was 57 years old, married, and employed as a driver earning between 
£10,000 and £25,000 annually. He had two occupational pension schemes (OPS) at the 
time, which Ill refer to as A and B. 
A  a defined contribution scheme, with a value of £256.88
B  a defined benefit scheme, with a cash equivalent transfer value of £9,076.40
Portal advised him to transfer these into a SIPP, and the transfers were completed on 
22 May 2015 and 18 June 2015 respectively. Mr W took 25% of the value of his pensions as 
tax free cash (TFC) on transfer.
In January 2020 Mr W complained to Portal about the advice it had given him in 2015. In 
summary he said Portal had been negligent in that it hadnt established his investment 
experience, financial situation, attitude to risk (ATR) and capacity for loss, nor his investment 
objectives. Due to this negligence Mr W said hed suffered a financial loss and wished to be 
put in the position he wouldve been had he not transferred his pension schemes. Portal 
didnt respond to the complaint, so Mr W referred the matter to our service.
Portal also didnt respond to our investigator on a number of occasions when it was asked to 
provide its records from the time of the advice. So our investigator was only able to assess 
the complaint on the basis of the information provided by Mr W including his recollection of 
the advice he was given, and from the SIPP provider, who Ill refer to as C.
Mr W says at the time of the advice he had a low ATR, and a low capacity for loss.
Taking into account the size and type of pensions involved and Mr Ws ATR and personal 
circumstances, our investigator thought the advice to transfer pensions A and B into a SIPP 
was unsuitable. So he thought Portal should put Mr W in the position he wouldve been in 
had he not taken its advice, and set out how he thought this should be calculated.
Portal acknowledged this view, but didnt respond further, so the matter has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
I wrote to both Portal and Mr W to explain that having reviewed all the evidence and 
arguments, I was minded to uphold the complaint. But I thought the redress calculation 
needed altering to take into account what should happen if Portal were unable to obtain the 
notional value of the scheme from the provider of pension A. Should this be the case I 
proposed Portal should use an alternative benchmark  half FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index, and the other half average rate from fixed rate bonds  instead 
of the notional value in the calculation of compensation. I also considered it wouldnt be fair 
to require Portal to refund the fees, as these appeared to have been taken from the fund 
value, and not directly from Mr W. As this was the case the fees would be taken into account 
within the redress calculation, so didnt need to be redressed separately.
Mr W didnt reply. Portal asked for some additional time to submit its response, and I agreed 
to the deadline it suggested. However this date has now passed and Portal has submitted 
nothing further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is regrettable that Portal havent cooperated with our service and provided the 
information requested by the investigator. Having looked at the records of what the 
investigator asked for and when, Im satisfied that Portal has had a fair opportunity to 
comply, and that it has also had sufficient time to respond to my suggested outcome and 
redress. Im satisfied that Ive enough evidence to enable me to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome, so moving to this final decision is a reasonable next step
Now Ill move on to the suitability of the advice given to Mr W by Portal, and Ive assessed 
this advice in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the time.
Where there is a lack of definitive evidence, or gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the 
evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, what is most likely to 
have happened.
Within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated 
business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr W were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objectives and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, 
Portal needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Mr Ws objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following: 
A firm must: 
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits; 
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision; 
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and 
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice. 
COBS 19.1.7 also said: 
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in 
relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up.
As Ive said above, Portal failed to provide our service the key documents that Id usually be 
able to review. For example, Ive not seen a fact find showing Mr Ws circumstances, 
objectives and ATR. The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report is missing. And Ive not seen 
a suitability report which wouldve set out Portals rationale for its recommendations.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion 
or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests. 
So the starting point for Portal shouldve been that the transfer of Mr Ws occupational 
pension scheme benefits would be unsuitable. And Ive not seen a suitability report which 
wouldve set out Portals rationale for its recommendations. Portal has had plenty of 
opportunity to demonstrate that it provided sound advice and that it was in Mr Ws best 
interest for the transfer to proceed. Portal has failed to clear this first and fundamental 
hurdle. 
Mr W has told us that he was 57 at the time of the advice, so was approaching the time 
when people are generally considering retiring. He was in employment, with a variable 
annual salary of between £10,000 and £25,000. Hes told us he had a low ATR, and I think 
this is probably an accurate assessment, because he had a relatively low income, and was 
approaching retirement which is a time when people are normally looking to reduce the risks 
their pension provision is exposed to. And the two pensions were the only assets Im aware 
of that Mr W had to fund his retirement. 
So in order for the transfer to be in his best interests, it would usually need to have a good 
chance of significantly improving on the benefits - and in the case of his pension B, the 
guaranteed benefits that came with it. And Ive not seen any evidence that Portal undertook 
the assessment that was required (TVAS) to show the investment return that wouldve been 
required from his SIPP for it to better his existing arrangements. Without this, Im unable to 
conclude that Mr W would have benefited from the transfer. Furthermore, I cant see Portal assessed Mr Ws capacity for loss. From the evidence we 
have, given his relative proximity to retirement; his lack of alternative pension provision, and 
relatively modest income, its reasonable to conclude he had a low capacity for loss. Any 
erosion of his pension funds would likely have had a detrimental impact upon him in 
retirement.
Ive also considered the type of pension Portal advised Mr W to transfer into. When 
transferring, there wouldve been two types of pension he couldve transferred into. A 
Stakeholder Pension Plan, or a Personal Pension Plan (PPP). A SIPP is a type of PPP but 
typically provides more flexibility and choice regarding the type of investments within it. 
SIPPs generally have higher ongoing fees than a PPP. And I can see from the statements 
provided by C that there were monthly ongoing adviser fees taken, along with annual SIPP 
charges and documentation charges. Im unable to say what, if any, charges there were in 
pensions A and B, but it is usually the case that the fees and charges within a SIPP are 
higher than in an occupational scheme, and Ive not seen anything to suggest this wasnt the 
case here. 
So, having considered what Mr W has told us about his personal circumstances at the time, 
the small size of his pension pots, and the charges associated with the SIPP, Im unable to 
conclude that the advice to transfer the benefits from his two occupational pensions into a 
SIPP was suitable.
Putting things right
As there were two different pensions, the redress for each must be considered separately as 
follows:
Pension A
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have remained with his previous pension providers. I am 
satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable in this situation.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr W would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP with C Still exists and 
liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of transfer Date of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr W's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP with C should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr W's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Pension B
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Distress and inconvenience
I also consider Portal needs to pay Mr W some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him. As Ive said above, it is likely that the pensions Portal 
advised him to transfer were his only retirement provision, and to find this provision had 
been reduced is likely to have caused Mr W significant distress. So I agree with the 
investigator that £300 is a fair and reasonable amount to recognise this.
My final decision
For all the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint.
I require Portal Financial Services LLP to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman