DRN-3359698
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc failed to amend the address on his current account 
and sent statements and a debit card to his old address.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary of 
what happened.
Mr J has a current account with Santander. 
In 2018, he asked it to amend his address but because of computer system issues, 
the amendment wasnt fully processed. This resulted in statements and a debit card 
being sent to his old address.
In 2021 Mr J realised he hadnt received his new debit card. He says he visited the 
old address to see if he could retrieve his card and statements. The new residents of 
the property had retained the incorrectly addressed post and gave it to Mr J.
Mr J says he made a number of calls to Santander to sort out the issue. It apologised 
for its error and paid Mr J £75 by way of an apology. Unhappy with this 
compensation, Mr J raised a complaint with this Service. 
Mr J says he experiences mental health issues and found it difficult and stressful 
dealing with Santanders error. Our Investigator thought Santander needed to do 
more to recognise the impact on Mr J and said it should pay him a total of £150.
Mr J remained unhappy and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute. 
Mr J initially said he thought hed made 10 calls to Santander to resolve the issue. He 
later acknowledged there may have been less after Santander was only able to 
identify three calls. 
So, the remaining issue is the compensation Santander should pay in recognition of 
the impact of its error and thats the focus of this decision.
Santander has explained how the error happened and that it resolved the issue as 
soon as it was reported by Mr J in July 2021. But, by this time, bank statements and 
a debit card had already been sent to his old address. 
I recognise the impact of Santanders error may have been greater on Mr J due to his 
mental health. Hes said he found making the calls to Santander and the knowledge 
his card had been sent to the wrong address stressful. He was also distressed by 
having to try to get the card and statements back from his old address.
I acknowledge significant time passed since the original request for the address to be 
changed in 2018. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr J was aware of the problem or 
reported it to Santander any significant time before his call in July 2021. So, I have to 
keep in mind the impact of the error on Mr J wasnt for the whole time period, just a 
proportion of it. 
Ive also kept in mind he was able to safely retrieve the card from the incorrect 
recipients who had kept the post safe for him. And he experienced no financial loss 
as a result of Santanders error.
When taking everything into account, I dont think Santander has done enough to 
recognise the impact of its error on Mr J in his individual circumstances. Ive thought 
about this very carefully and, for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive concluded 
Santander should pay Mr J a total of £150 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. I consider this fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr J 
£150 less any amounts its already paid him.
Santander UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or  
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman