DRN-2425401
The complaint
Mr W complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car after a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged in an accident and esure declared it to be beyond economical 
repair. It made Mr W an offer in settlement of his claim which it said was the cars market 
value. Mr W thought this was too low, and esure increased its offer to £3,882, less the policy 
excess. But Mr W remained unhappy as hed found similar cars advertised for higher prices 
and hed bought the car only four months previously for £6,350.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
had valued Mr Ws car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. He 
thought it had offered more than the average of the valuations provided by the trade guides. 
Mr W replied that he thought the cars valuation should be higher, based on similar cars 
advertised for sale. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated by esures decision as he paid £6.350 for his car 
four months before its loss but esure wont increase its valuation. I can understand that he 
wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. 
I think esure offered Mr W a settlement for the market value of his car, as defined in the 
policys terms and conditions:
Market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected
to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based
on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr W disagrees with our approach to valuations. But it is an approach that we 
think is fair to all parties. Mr W said hed bought his car about four months before its loss. 
But wed only consider the purchase price where the car had been bought within a month of 
its loss. So I can see no reason not to follow our usual approach to valuations. 
Our investigator thought esures offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ws car.
Mr W said his car was in an immaculate condition with low mileage. He said it had a rare 
sunroof and a more desirable engine. But I can see that the cars specification, mileage and 
condition were taken into account in the valuations. 
Mr W said hed seen similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The average of the valuations the investigator found was less than the offer esure made to 
Mr W. So I cant say that esures offer was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require it to 
increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman