DRN-3745598
The complaint
Mr F complains Starling Bank Limited (Starling) didnt reimburse the money he lost when 
he was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, Mr F was the victim of a scam. Mr F (along with his partner) were looking to 
replace their elderly mothers boiler. Mr Fs partner posted on to a well-known social media 
website business / community group for the local area and was recommended a firm.
Mr F and his partner entered into discussions with this firm. To Mr F and his partner 
everything seemed normal. They explained the plumber sounded technical and 
knowledgeable and knew what they were doing. They exchanged pictures of the boiler and 
what type of boiler was required and also the takeaway of the existing boiler was arranged. 
Mr F and his partner were quoted a reasonable price for the job. The price was to be around 
£2,000 with Mr F paying £500 as a deposit up front and the remainder in cash on the day the 
work was to be carried out.
On 21 September 2021, Mr F made a faster payment of £500 from his account with Starling 
as a deposit for the job.
The very next morning, Mr F received an email advising that the company had ceased 
trading and the work couldnt be carried out. Mr F was then unable to obtain a refund from 
the plumber. Mr F tried pursuing the matter with the plumber  who returned two amounts of 
£50 and £30 on 27 September 2021 and 25 November 2021  which Mr F considered was 
an attempt to delay or prevent any legal pursuit. 
Mr F reported the matter to Starling and to see if he could recover his funds. Starling 
contacted the Receiving Firm, (the bank where the funds were sent to)  but ultimately 
received a response advising no funds remained that could be recovered.  
Starling also considered whether Mr F was entitled to reimbursement under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (the CRM Code) which it is 
a signatory of.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Starling, while accepting Mr F was the 
victim of a scam, said one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. It said Mr F 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person 
the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or 
that the person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. In short, Starling 
considered Mr F didnt carry out sufficient checks to make sure it was a legitimate business.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The Investigator didnt believe Starling had fairly assessed Mr Fs claim under the 
CRM Code. They didnt agree that Starling had been able to establish Mr F made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing the business with whom he transacted with 
was legitimate.
Starling disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as the matter hasnt been 
resolved it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Mr F 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Starling should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 
money Mr F lost (that being £420).
Starling should also pay interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% 
simple per year. This interest should apply from the date Starling first declined to 
refund Mr F under the CRM Code, to the date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Starling declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Starling to 
establish one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those 
exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.After having carefully considered all of Starlings submissions, Im satisfied that Starling has 
not shown that Mr F made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
business with whom he transacted with was legitimate. I will go on to explain why I have 
reached this finding.
Did Mr F have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Mr F and his partner were looking to replace their elderly mothers boiler. They reached out 
on a social media community group and were recommended a firm. I consider this to be 
perfectly reasonable in the circumstances. It is not uncommon, and many consumers place 
weight on a recommendation from either friends and family or through local groups on social 
media websites from people that have used trades people before.
And at this point, I think it is vitally important to point out that people dont want or expect to 
be scammed. Mr F (through his partner) had received a recommendation of a firm and 
having contacted the plumber were satisfied that everything seemed normal. The plumber 
sounded knowledgeable and from looking at the correspondence between the parties 
nothing seems untoward. Details about the job that needed carrying out, images of the boiler 
that needed replacing and discussions around the work were had.
It isnt uncommon for the trade industry to ask for some funds upfront or a deposit. And it 
isnt uncommon for self-employed people to use personal accounts. So I dont think anything 
untoward stood out to Mr F (and his partner) at the time of making the payment. And 
certainly not to an extent that they should reasonably thought that they were at risk of 
anything or that things seemed suspicious. 
Im also mindful that the price of the job wasnt unusual or low and not to an extent that it 
could be said something was untoward. And also, when making the payment  the account 
name matched that of who Mr F was dealing with. It was also a deposit with the larger 
portion of payment to follow. So I dont think Mr F would have reasonably had any concerns 
at the time of making the payment.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr F to not have thought much beyond this  such as 
carrying out any further additional checks.
Overall, I dont consider that Mr F had any reason to think the plumber wasnt legitimate and 
was intending on defrauding him by taking money and not fulfilling the work. The fact that 
Starling can think of things Mr F could have done with the benefit of hindsight does not mean 
that Mr F did not have a reasonable basis of belief when making the payment at the time.
All things considered, Im satisfied Mr F had a reasonable basis for believing that the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services, and/or that the person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
And Im also satisfied that Starling hasnt established any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply here. While Starling provided a warning during the payment process  
it only suggested to verify the payee  which wouldnt have been a concern to Mr F given 
Mr F at the time, thought he was liaising with a legitimate plumber  and the name of payee 
matched. Im also mindful that the warning advised Mr F to visit Starlings scam website for 
scam advice. Given Mr F thought he was liaising with a legitimate plumber I cant say that 
this would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that Starling has shown that Mr F lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, or that he ignored an effective warning. It 
follows that Starling should reimburse Mr F for the losses he suffered.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Fs
complaint about Starling Bank Limited. I therefore require Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr F:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £420; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Starling Bank 
Limited originally declined Mr Fs claim under the CRM Code until the date of 
settlement. 
 If HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest, 
Starling Bank Limited must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
I direct Starling Bank Limited to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of 
receiving notification of Mr Fs acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman