DRN-2328811
The complaint
Mr E complains about Money Management Team Limited (MMT) pursuing him for fees 
following successful claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) from a lender.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr E received a settlement from a lender following successful claims for mis-
sold PPI.  Shortly after this MMT wrote to Mr E to ask for its success fee which was 
calculated at 20% (plus VAT).
Mr E disputed that the fee was due. He said he didnt want MMT to take credit for the work 
done by the lender. He complained about texts, emails and calls from MMT as it pursued 
him for payment.
MMT said Mr E had signed documentation authorising it to act on his behalf and hed 
communicated with it via email throughout the claims journey. It was confident Mr E was fully 
aware of the work that had been carried out with lenders on his behalf. The lender had 
confirmed to MMT that refund payments had been issued. It asked Mr E to make contact to 
settle MMTs fees.
Mr E remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said that work on his 
claim was done by the lender and not by MMT. He was finding the letters and phone calls 
from MMT very stressful.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Es concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He was satisfied Mr E had given MMT authority to act on his behalf and had agreed to its fee 
of 20% plus VAT if MMT was successful in recovering a PPI settlement for him. MMT had 
raised Mr Es claim and had communicated with Mr E and the lender to manage the claim.
He could see the lender had confirmed directly to MMT that it had received its letter of 
complaint. The lender had updated MMT on the claims progress and recognised MMT as  
Mr Es representative when informing it theyd paid the settlement. He hadnt seen evidence 
Mr E had cancelled his consent for MMT to act on his behalf. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view. He said hed given MMT permission to work on 
his behalf. But he hadnt gone to MMT, it had contacted him out of nowhere. It got to the 
stage where MMTs phone calls were too much for him and hed asked it to stop contacting 
him. He then contacted the lender himself to continue with the claim.
As Mr E has disagreed with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr E has acknowledged that he gave MMT permission to work on his behalf. I can see he 
signed letters of authority in April and June 2019 where hes agreed for MMT to act on his 
behalf and make a formal complaint in relation to the mis-selling of his PPI. The letters of 
authority contain the wording:
If MMT are successful in recovering redress, fees of 20% plus VAT which is a total of 24% 
of the total redress offered by the lender will apply.
Mr E disputes that MMT were responsible for him gaining redress from the lender. Hes sent 
us copies of text messages he received from the lender which update him on the progress of 
his complaint. He says these prove there were no third parties involved with his claim. But 
Ive also seen a copy of a letter from the lender to MMT dated 21 August 2019, which refers 
to Mr Es PPI complaint and says: Your clients complaint has been acknowledged and they 
will be kept up to date with the progress of the complaint. 
The lender also wrote to MMT in October 2019 enclosing copies of the final decision letters 
theyd sent to Mr E. And it wrote to MMT again in November 2019 to let it know the 
payments it was making to Mr E to settle his PPI claims. So, Im satisfied that MMT brought 
Mr Es complaints to the lender on his behalf and the lender considered MMT to be Mr Es 
representative.  
Mr E says he told MMT he wanted to cancel its services in a phone call around 20 or 22 
August 2019. MMT says it didnt receive any communication from Mr E regarding the 
cancellation of his claims. It says the continuous nature of its attempted contact with Mr E 
highlights the claims were never cancelled by MMT. 
MMT says theres no record of it speaking to Mr E in August 2019. It only ever reached      
Mr Es voicemail for this period. Its sent us a screenshot of its call recording service which 
shows only very short call durations, the longest being 40 seconds. MMT has sent us a 
recording of the 40 second voicemail (from 22 August 2019) which asks Mr E to contact 
MMT about taking his claims forward.
MMTs contact history shows it sent a follow up email and Mr E responded the same day 
saying I have completed many forms which I sent to you and nothing is come out it. So, 
what more information do you need. So far as concerned I have given every information. 
Theres no reference to Mr E wanting to cancel MMTs services.
So, although Ive considered what Mr E has said, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that he cancelled MMTs services.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr E, but overall, I think MMT has acted fairly and 
reasonably.  Im satisfied that MMT pursued Mr Es PPI complaints for him and this resulted 
in him gaining redress from the lender. I appreciate Mr E feels that most of the work 
assessing his claims was done by the lender. But MMTs fee was agreed on a no win, no 
fee basis so it didnt need to reflect the amount of work or time MMT spent on Mr Es cases. 
And I think MMT made Mr E aware of this when he agreed to use its services. So, I think its 
fair for MMT to pursue Mr E for its fees.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman