DRN-3839100
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(Alphera). 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement with Alphera for a used car. At the 
time the car was just over three and a half years old and had travelled approximately 51,050 
miles. The cash price was £16,895.
On 28 May 2022 Mr T had to have the car recovered to a local garage. Three days later he 
complained to Alphera that the car had developed a major fault which meant it wasnt 
driveable. He said the rear differential had broken, which would be very expensive to fix. 
Alphera asked the garage to provide a diagnostic report and to confirm whether the fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied. The garage confirmed:
Current fault with the vehicle is the rear differential.
Cause is unknown, but failure of some sort of internal bearing/gear or housing which 
cannot be seen unless completely opened up for further inspection.
Unable to answer if fault was present at time of sale. 
Mr T told Alphera that hed also been having problems with the stop/start function not 
working properly, the nearside wing mirror not folding in or out completely, and the offside 
rear door not opening from the inside. 
Alphera issued their final response to Mr T on 16 June 2022. They said they hadnt upheld 
his complaint because they hadnt seen evidence to show the faults were present or 
developing when they supplied the car. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr T brought his complaint to us. He provided evidence 
showing hed paid £625 for a replacement rear differential on 22 July 2022. And he provided 
a copy of an invoice dated 18 August 2022, showing a labour cost of £500 plus VAT for the 
repair to be carried out.
Our investigator said she hadnt seen evidence to confirm there were other faults with the 
car, so shed focused on Mr Ts main complaint about the rear differential. She said she 
didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T because it 
hadnt been reasonably durable. So, she thought it would be fair for Alphera to reimburse Mr 
T £1,225 to cover the costs hed incurred in having the problem repaired.
The investigator said Alphera should refund the payments Mr T had made for the period 
between 28 May and 10 August 2022, when he wasnt able to use the car. And she thought 
Mr T should receive £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused.
Alphera agreed to refund the payments Mr T had made for the period in which he hadnt 
been able to use the car and £150 compensation. But they said that, as the fault had come 
to light after more than six months, the onus was on Mr T to prove the issue was present or 
developing at the point of sale. They felt that, as he hadnt provided evidence of this, Mr T 
was responsible for the repair.
As Alphera didnt agree with our investigators view, the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
look into this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. It explains that durability can be aspects of the quality of goods - as well as 
things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects and 
safety. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just over three and a half years old and had 
covered around 51,050 miles when it was supplied to Mr T. It cost £16,895, which is 
significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was new. 
I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I do think theyd still expect it 
to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be able to 
drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
It isnt disputed that Mr T experienced a major issue with the cars rear differential. Im 
satisfied that this was a significant fault because Mr T has told us that he wasnt able to use 
the car again until it was repaired. Ive seen no supporting evidence of any other faults with 
the car, so I havent considered those.
Ive seen evidence confirming the car was recovered to a garage on 28 May 2022 due to the 
rear differential having failed. The point for me to consider is whether this meant the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when Alphera supplied it to Mr T in July 2021.
Ive seen a copy of the repair invoice dated 18 August 2022, which records the cars mileage 
to have been 64,446 at that time. So, I can see that the car had travelled over 13,000 miles 
during the 10-month period since it was supplied.
Alphera feel strongly that, as Mr T had the car for more than six months before the fault 
came to light, the CRA places the onus on him to prove the issue was either already present 
or developing when they supplied it. Alphera stress that the fault wasnt reported until 10 months after the car was supplied to Mr 
T, and he hasnt provided evidence showing it was already present or developing at the 
outset. Ive given careful thought to the points theyve raised.
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their state and condition. But as Ive explained, 
it goes on to make it clear that durability is also an aspect of the quality of goods. 
I remind myself that this car cost £16,895. The evidence from the garage shows it had only 
travelled around 64,446 miles when the rear differential was noted to have suffered failure 
of some sort of internal bearing/gear or housing. Im satisfied that a reasonable person 
would expect the rear differential to last significantly longer than this. 
Mr T has provided copies of invoices for the last three services that were carried out, after 
the car had covered 30,295 miles, 42,969 miles and 51,090 miles. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the rear differential failed due to mistreatment of the car.
For these reasons, I dont consider the car to have been sufficiently durable. I dont consider 
any further evidence to be necessary here. It follows that I find the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr T.
Putting things right
Mr T has provided copies of invoices showing he paid £625 for a replacement rear 
differential on 22 July 2022, and £500 plus VAT on 18 August 2022 for the repair to be 
carried out. I think Alphera should reimburse him for these costs.
Mr T has told us that he wasnt able to use the car until it was repaired. The MOT history 
shows the car passed an MOT test on 10 August 2022, so I take this to be the point at which 
it was driveable again. I think its fair for Alphera to refund the payments Mr T made for the 
period between 28 May 2022 and 10 August 2022, to reflect his loss of use of the car.
I think Mr T was caused distress and inconvenience because he was supplied with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to arrange to have it recovered to a garage to find out 
what was wrong with it, as well as arranging for it to be repaired. Hes told us that he was 
concerned about not having access to a car in the event of an emergency, as his son has 
diabetes. I think Alphera should pay Mr T £150 compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Reimburse Mr T £625 for the replacement part he purchased on 22 July 2022.
Reimburse Mr T £500 plus VAT for the labour cost he incurred on 18 August 2022.
Refund the payments Mr T has made under the agreement for the period between 28 
May 2022 and 10 August 2022.
Pay interest on each of the above payments, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Mr T £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
If Alphera consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr T how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman