DRN-3988243
The complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (SFS) declined his car finance application.
What happened
Mr R submitted an application to SFS for car finance in May 2022. The application was 
approved. Mr R ordered his car from the dealership.
In October 2022 Mr R received a letter from SFS advising him that his application for finance 
had been declined.
Mr R complained to SFS. In response, SFS said that although the application was approved 
in May 2022, it was subject to a further credit assessment because the car wasnt going to 
be ready until November 2022. SFS said that on the further credit assessment, the 
application hadnt met the acceptance requirements.
Mr R was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that SFS hadnt acted unfairly and 
that it didnt have to provided Mr R with a  specific reason as to why it declined the 
application.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he hadnt been made aware that a  further credit assessment 
would be carried out and he didnt think hed been treated fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is required to carry out checks before approving finance. The decision on whether 
to approve or decline an application for finance is based on the outcome of these checks. 
Each lender will have its own lending criteria, which are confidential to the lender.
In this case, I can see that Mr Rs application in May 2022 met SFSs lending criteria. 
However, when the application was assessed around 6 months later it failed to meet the 
lending criteria and the application was declined.
I appreciate that Mr R feels that he shouldve been advised that a  further credit assessment 
would be carried out. SFS has explained that it had to carry out a further credit assessment 
because the initial credit assessment was carried out more than 90 days prior to the start of 
the agreement.
I dont think SFS acted unfairly by carrying out a further credit assessment. Credit reports 
cant be relied on indefinitely because a consumers financial circumstances can change. So 
lenders will generally carry out further assessments after a period of time. In this case, SFS 
has a policy of further credit assessments after 90 days which I dont think is unreasonable.
Ive thought about whether Mr R was impacted as a result of not being advised that the 
credit assessment carried out when he initially applied for finance would expire and that a 
further assessment would be required. Mr R hasnt provided this service with any details of 
how hes been impacted. Even if he had provided details, I wouldnt be able to say that SFS 
had done anything wrong by carrying out a further credit assessment.
I understand that this has been a frustrating experience for Mr R and that he wants to know 
why he didnt meet the lending criteria when the further credit assessment was carried out . 
SFS isnt obliged to disclose the specific information it obtained which led to its decision to 
decline the application. However, its likely that the information came from Mr Rs credit file, 
and he could obtain details of his credit file by applying to the relevant credit reference 
agencies.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think SFS has acted unfairly here. I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman