DRN-1750942
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card.
What happened
In August 2003, Mrs M applied for a Capital One credit card. She did not apply for PPI at this 
time.
Capital One says that on receiving her new card, Mrs M had to contact it to activate the card. 
It says she did this on 9 September 2003, and at this time it says it sold her a PPI policy. The 
policy was designed to pay 10% of what Mrs M owed when she stopped work for up to 12 
months if she was off work sick or lost her job. The cost of the policy was charged to the 
credit card account, so Mrs M would repay what she borrowed with interest in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs M thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs M didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
Mrs M has also complained about PPI alongside a credit card that started in 2001. Our 
adjudicator has been in touch with Mrs M to explain why it didnt look like this was a 
complaint we could look at. As this was a separate account and sale, I have not looked at 
that complaint in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive first thought about whether Mrs M chose to buy the PPI policy. Capital One has sent us 
the application form for this credit card, and I see Mrs M didnt complete the section relating 
to the PPI. PPI was instead added later, in September 2003, after Mrs M contacted Capital 
One to activate the card.
Because of the time thats passed, Capital One doesnt have a recording of this telephone 
conversation. But I dont think thats unreasonable  Capital One didnt need to keep this 
information longer than it needed it. So Ive thought about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the other information thats available. 
Mrs M says she didnt know she had PPI. She says that if shed known she had PPI, shed 
have tried to claim on the policy when she was off work sick.
On the other hand, the sales process Capital One says it used around this time suggests 
Mrs M would have been given a choice whether or not to buy the policy. I note that when 
weve asked Mrs M for further details about her circumstances when she bought the policy, 
she told us she cant remember as it was a long time ago.
Finally, Capital Ones records suggest that it did discuss the possibility of making a claim on 
the policy in 2005  but this didnt proceed as the insurer says Mrs M didnt return the 
necessary claim forms.
So while I appreciate that Mrs M now feels that she didnt know she had the policy, I dont 
think this is most likely based on what Ive seen. I think its more likely that she knew she had 
a policy and agreed to buy it.
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M, so it didnt need check it was right for 
her. But it did need to give Mrs M the information she needed to work out for herself if she 
wanted it.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what Mrs M has said about her circumstances, it doesnt 
look as though she was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits of the policy. I 
also note that Mrs M says she wasnt entitled to sick pay and didnt have any other ways of 
making the payments if shed lost her job or been off work sick. So Im not persuaded better 
information would have changed her decision to buy the policy. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the policy.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything else Mrs M has said - including what shes said about her 
illness. I have every sympathy for Mrs M and dont doubt shes had a very difficult time. But 
these points dont change my decision. In particular, if Mrs M thinks she could have made a 
successful claim on the policy, shell need to raise this separately with the insurer in the first 
instance.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
 Edward Hardman
Ombudsman