DRN-4038193
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy because UK Insurance Limited (UKI) sent her motor insurance 
documentation to an incorrect address.
What happened
Mrs B contacted UKI to both change the vehicle and amend the address on her motor 
insurance policy. Following this contact, the vehicle details were changed, but UKI failed to 
amend the address. So, the new insurance documentation was inadvertently sent to Mrs Bs 
old address.
Mrs B says the documentation was opened by the current resident at this address. And as 
there had been previous personal issues between Mrs B and the current residents, she 
became concerned for both her and her partners safety because - the current residents at 
her old address now had personal and identifiable information about her. So, Mrs B sold her 
vehicle because she felt it could be traced to her new address and she complained to UKI. 
Mrs B said UKIs actions had compromised her and her vulnerable partners safety. 
UKI acknowledged it had made an error, and it paid Mrs B £50 in compensation for the 
distress caused. But Mrs B said UKI hadnt done enough so she brought a complaint to this 
service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said UKI should pay Mrs B a further 
£250 (£300 in total) in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
UKI says £300 (in total) is too much, so the complaint is now with me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute around the circumstances of what happened here. UKI says the address 
wasnt updated due to an administration error on its part.  Mrs B made UKI aware that she 
and her partner had to move many hundreds of miles away from abusive family members. 
She says that in her call with UKI, the agent who was changing her address empathised with 
her because he said he had a partner or a friend who had experienced a similar situation.
UKI says that at the time of the complaint it felt £50 was sufficient compensation, because 
the new address wasn't on the letter that was sent. UKI said the new address for Mrs B 
couldnt be obtained from the documentation issued. UKI says it wasn't aware the consumer 
had to sell her vehicle for fear it might be traced.
However, aside from the fact that UKI says it didnt know Mrs B was selling her vehicle, I 
dont think UKI fully took into account the other identifiers in the documentation and how they 
could be used to Mrs Bs detriment. Mrs B had bought a new vehicle. So now a third party 
had access to her new registration number. And even though it might be difficult to obtain an 
address from a registration number alone, there were other things a third party could do to 
make things difficult. I note there's a QR code on the documentation, linked to a Whatsapp 
number. There are also direct dial numbers to call UKI. Who's to say that a third party, who 
may be a threat to Mrs B, wouldn't contact UKI and pretend to be her? With access to a new 
vehicle registration, a correct policy number and knowledge of possible security answers 
such as email addresses or a date of birth (that most family members would know) whos to 
say they wouldnt amend Mrs Bs insurance policy details or worse cancel the policy itself?
I feel that UKI hasn't taken into account the full impact of its error, and the fear and distress 
that this must've caused Mrs B and her vulnerable partner. Yes, its a simple admin error, an 
error that in most cases would not cause any issues. But in this specific case, with these 
specific circumstances, the impact on Mrs B has been far greater than normal. Its not solely 
about the address. Its about a specific third-party having access to identifiable and 
otherwise inaccessible personal details, that could at any time be used with severe 
consequences for Mrs Bs day to day living or livelihood, and the impact this has had on her 
mental health.
I dont think UKI fully considered the impact its error has had on Mrs B. As such I agree with 
our investigator and I think an additional £250 is a more appropriate compensatory reflection 
of the distress caused by this error. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited
to pay:
An additional £250 in compensation (£300 in total) for the distress its error has 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman