DRN-3140959
The complaint
Mr P complains about the information provided by Experian Limited concerning how it 
calculates his credit score. 
What happened
Mr P has explained that he looked at ways of improving his credit score and, after finding 
information from Experian, took out a credit card. Mr Ps credit file shows he has some 
historic adverse credit. Mr P has explained he wanted to improve his credit score, in part, so 
he could rent a new property. 
Mr P opened a new credit card in January 2021 but later complained to Experian that his 
credit score had gone down. Experian issued two final responses and gave Mr P information 
about how credit card balances and payments can impact a credit score. Experian also said 
the score isnt shared with other businesses. Experian said lenders and businesses are 
responsible for making decisions by taking the information on a customers credit file into 
account. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Experian had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P asked to appeal and said a letting agent had told him he either needed a 
minimum score before agreeing to proceed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian says its score is automatically generated taking lots of information from different 
sources into account. I can see Mr P wants to get a better understanding of why his score 
goes up and down. But Experians final responses do give guidance about how credit card 
balances and payments can impact a credit score. I appreciate its not always obvious 
whats caused a change in score, but Im satisfied Experian has given a reasonable 
explanation of how its credit scoring process works. 
Experian says the score is only provided to the customer as a guide to how lenders may 
view their credit file. Experian says each business will make its own decision about whether 
to lend or proceed based on the information it finds. I understand a letting agent told Mr P he 
needed to show a minimum credit score to be approved. But thats not information Experian 
would share directly with another business. It would be up to Mr P to decide whether to 
share that information with a third party. Im satisfied Experian doesnt give out Mr Ps score 
to businesses, as it claims. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but as Im satisfied Experian has dealt with his complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman