DRN-1926364
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc wont waive the early repayment charge (ERC) on his 
mortgage. 
What happened
In May 2015 Mr R applied for a buy to let mortgage with Santander through a broker. He 
borrowed £135,000 on a fixed mortgage product of 3.99% until 3 August 2020, over 25 
years.
In January 2020 Mr R wanted to repay his mortgage. He wanted to re-mortgage with another 
lender and release some equity to buy further investment properties. Santander said an ERC 
of around £6,800 would apply if the mortgage was redeemed before August 2020. 
Mr R offered to pay the interest due until the end of the term in return for the ERC being 
waived. Santander didnt accept this. Mr R thinks it is being unreasonable.
Mr R complained to Santander about the ERC. Santander didn't uphold his complaint, so he 
referred his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into things and felt the ERC had 
been applied fairly. Mr R didn't agree so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. Im satisfied that an ERC of 
5% on the outstanding loan amount was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage 
offer. Mr R accepted this when he took out the mortgage.  So, it is difficult for me to say that 
Santander cant apply the ERC that Mr R agreed to when he took out the mortgage. 
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a 
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within 
the benefit period. Under the rules it does not have to reflect the actual costs it has incurred 
on an individual mortgage  they might be more or less than the ERC. And the lenders 
estimate of costs is unlikely to be limited to the lost interest due to early repayment. There 
are other costs it is reasonable for a lender to include in the ERC.
Mr R feels it's unfair that Santander didnt accept his offer to make the full contractual 
repayments until August 2020, in return for the ERC being waived. The ERC forms part of 
the contract Mr R had with Santander. It is for Santander to decide whether its willing to 
break the contract and accept this proposal instead. So, I dont consider it's been unfair or 
unreasonable in applying the ERC in line with the contract that Mr R agreed to. 
Ive considered everything Mr R has said about the impact Covid-19 has had on the current 
housing market. Because I dont think Santander did anything wrong by including the ERC in the January 2020 redemption figure, I cant hold it responsible for any impact on Mr Rs 
ability to grow his investment portfolio.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman