DRN-3311215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to refund money they lost 
as part of an investment scam.
The transactions were made by Mr B. For ease, Ive only referred to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr B says that he was looking to invest money hed received following a property sale. In 
March-April 2018, he came across an article on the internet about a well-known TV 
programme endorsing investment in Bitcoin. 
Mr B left his contact details on a webform and was subsequently telephoned by a 
representative of a broker, which Ill call C. Mr B says the representative informed him that 
C was licenced to operate in the UK and was in the process of being regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He was given the opportunity to earn a monthly income 
in return for letting C hold on to his money. Mr B says that he was persuaded to invest after 
doing some initial checks on C. 
Over the next few weeks, Mr Bs account manager at C spoke to him over the phone 
numerous times. After seeing his investment make profits, Mr B says he made further 
payments. Two of these card payments appeared on his account statement under a different 
merchant name  Ill call it E  but Mr B states it was all arranged through C. Later, when 
his investment started making losses, Mr Bs account manager stopped communicating with 
him. Mr B began to worry about his money and escalated his concerns to C. 
In July 2018, a senior account manager reached out to him and Mr B says he could sense 
that there were some internal concerns about his previous account manager. Mr B genuinely 
believed that the senior manager would help bring his account in order. In an attempt to 
recover his losses, he agreed to make a further payment. A few weeks later, Mr B also made 
an online banking payment to a company  Ill call it A Ltd  which hes said was the parent 
company of C. He made this payment on the basis that he could make a withdrawal within a 
couple of days. But the balance plummeted once this payment reached his investment 
account. 
The following transactions were made using Mr Bs debit card/bank account:
Date Type Merchant/Payee Amount
2 April 2018 Debit card C £3,000 
20 April 2018 Debit card E £5,000 (payment initially 
blocked by HSBC)
24 April 2018 Debit card E £10,000
28 May 2018 Debit card C £10,000 (payment initially 
blocked by HSBC)
28 May 2018 Debit card C £3,000
12 July 2018 Debit card C £5,000
31 July 2018 Online banking A Ltd £10,000 (plus £4 payment 
(International 
payment)charge)
31 July 2018 Debit card C £100 (credit)
Total payments £46,000
Total loss £45,900
Mr B says that it was only after he subsequently employed the services of an investigations 
company that he realised he had been scammed. He reported the matter to Action Fraud. 
Mr B also contacted HSBC and asked for its assistance in recovering the money. But it 
declined to refund any of the disputed payments. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it  he 
thought that HSBC ought to have intervened when Mr B made the final payment as it 
appeared unusual. And had it done so, the investigator thought Mr B would have been able 
to provide the information necessary to meet any chargeback requirements for the previous 
card payments. He therefore asked HSBC to reimburse the transactions in full and add 
interest.
HSBC didnt agree and the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision earlier this month. I said I didnt intend upholding this complaint, and set out the 
following reasoning:
Mr B says his dealings were with C. Given the information Ive found during my 
research on C, Im satisfied that Mr B has likely been the victim of a scam, rather 
than simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment. C wasnt regulated (as 
required) by the FCA at the time it contracted with Mr B. Theres also a warning 
published about C / A Ltd on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), albeit nearly 18 months after 
Mr B made all the payments he disputes.
While I think that C was likely operating a scam, the chargeback scheme rules dont 
automatically entitle Mr B to a refund based on these circumstances. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment 
disputes between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in 
this case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the 
merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, 
meaning there are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be 
accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. 
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very 
narrow. Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for 
investments where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw 
available balances. But Visa requires very specific evidence  a copy of the 
cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount and the 
available balance, at the time the withdrawal request was made.
My role is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the card issuer (HSBC in this case) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder.From the information Ive seen, it doesnt appear as though Mr B was in possession 
of this information when he contacted HSBC. Or, that he would have been able to 
provide all the required evidence if it had been requested at the time. Because of 
this, Im not persuaded that HSBC would have been successful in recovering the 
card payments in the way suggested by the investigator.  
I think its also important to note that two of the disputed payments went to E  a 
company that was authorised by the FCA as an electronic money institution at the 
time. So, it was a legitimate company. Mr Bs position is that his dealings were with C 
and the payments sent to E were arranged through C. But HSBC would have been 
only able to chargeback against the party he paid (E), not another party (C).
I would also add here, that had Mr B been able to provide the evidence Visa require, 
he wouldnt have been entitled to all of the transactions he had made  only to the 
withdrawal amount, or the available balance at the time of making the withdrawal 
request. As I understand it, only £362 remained in Mr Bs investment account when 
he contacted HSBC. 
The next question Ive considered is whether HSBC ought to have intervened before 
allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might 
be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr B using his card / online banking and 
associated security credentials. I therefore conclude that these were authorised 
payments for which Mr B is liable unless theres evidence that HSBC could and 
should reasonably have done more to protect him, and that this would have made a 
difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. HSBC 
ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at 
risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial 
harm from fraud.
I dont consider the initial payment of £3,000 was particularly unusual or suspicious 
such that it ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems. I say this 
because there was no FCA / IOSCO warning about C at the time. And when looking 
at Mr Bs bank statements, I can see that he regularly made payments of this amount 
using his debit card. The statements also show that it wasnt unusual for him to make 
card payments to international merchants. 
I can see that the second payment did trigger HSBCs fraud detection systems, and 
Mr B had to contact the bank to confirm that he had authorised it. Given HSBCs fraud detection systems were triggered and required an intervention, its my 
judgement that HSBC had reasonable grounds to suspect fraud or scam at this time. 
So, it would have also been reasonable for the bank to have asked Mr B appropriate 
probing questions before processing the payments. 
Ive listened to the phone call dated 20 April 2018 between Mr B and HSBC that was 
triggered by this payment. The agent checked recent transactions on Mr Bs account 
with him before informing him that the bank had declined the payment due to security 
concerns  it appeared to be a malicious website and wasnt based in the UK. Mr B 
told the agent that it was him making the payment and that he had used it [the 
company] before. The agent reinstated the card and Mr B was able to make the 
payment.
Given that the payment was flagged by HSBC, I dont think the bank asked suitably 
probing questions. I think it should have done more than simply verifying the payment 
was authorised by him. If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence 
by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that Mr B would 
have explained what he was doing. And although this payment was going to E, I think 
its likely that Mr B would have mentioned that his dealings were with C. In such 
circumstances, while the bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice  after all, E was a regulated company  it could have provided 
information about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably 
possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate merchant. So, I think HSBC could 
have done more at this point.
Ive thought about whether an intervention along the lines of what Ive described 
above would likely have made a difference to Mr Bs actions. Im not persuaded that 
it would have stopped Mr B from going ahead with the payment. I say this because 
hes told us he already knew that C was yet to have regulatory oversight by the FCA. 
He was prepared to invest despite this awareness. Also, theres no credible evidence 
available in April 2018 to suggest with any degree of certainty that C was operating a 
scam. So, even if Mr B had gone away to do some additional research if HSBC had 
given him a warning about scams in general, there wasnt adverse information in the 
public domain about C / A Ltd at the time. So, Im not convinced Mr B would have 
done anything differently. 
As time went on, the payments came to form part of Mr Bs pattern of account 
activity. So, they wouldnt reasonably have appeared suspicious to HSBC. Out of the 
remaining payments, the fourth payment did flag up on HSBCs fraud detection 
system. I can see that the bank verified that the payment had been authorised by 
Mr B before reinstating his card. Again, I think HSBC could have asked suitably 
probing questions. But much for the same reasons as Ive set out above, Im not 
persuaded that this intervention would have stopped Mr B from going ahead with the 
payment.
I invited further comments from both parties in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr B responded saying that he did conduct sufficient checks on C before contracting with it, 
and the reviews were encouraging. He also said that he considered the initial payment of 
£3,000 was a large sum of money and questioned why it, along with other larger value 
payments, werent flagged as suspicious by HSBC. And for those that were flagged, why did 
it only ask him if he knew the merchant. Mr B questioned why HSBC didnt tell him if, and for 
what reasons, it suspected C wasnt trustworthy. Mr B accepted that he had to shoulder 
some of the blame, but he felt that HSBC should too as it could have done more. HSBC accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr B for his response to my provisional findings. Although Ive only summarised his 
key points, I want to reassure him that Ive carefully considered his submissions. 
Having done so, my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision remain unchanged. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered the operation of Mr Bs account in the months leading up to the disputed 
payments. During that period, he used his account to make other, similar or larger value, 
payments. A debit card payment of over £34,000 was made just two months before the initial 
payment to C. The account statements also show that it wasnt unusual for Mr B to use card 
to pay overseas merchants. 
I accept that the initial payment to C, and later to E, was to a new payee. But Im not 
persuaded that a new payee, of itself, ought to have triggered the banks systems. Payments 
are made to new payees all the times. Theres a reasonable balance to be struck for the 
benefit of all account holders as well as for reasons such as commercial efficiency. After all, 
the bank also has a duty to execute properly authorised payment requests within a 
reasonable period of time.
Some of the payments did trigger an alert on HSBCs systems. As I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, HSBC did tell Mr B why it had declined the first payment  the merchant 
(website name) appeared to be malicious and wasnt based in the UK. There were no 
warnings from the FCA or IOSCO about C. HSBC couldnt reasonably have known that C 
was likely operating a scam.  
As I said in my provisional decision, I do think that HSBC could have probed Mr B further 
when it intervened. If it had carried out further checks along the lines I mentioned, I would 
have expected it to direct Mr B to check the firm was registered with the FCA, inform him of 
any regulator warnings that it was aware of, and inform him to carry out his own due 
diligence checks.
There werent any regulator warnings that indicated C was a scammer. HSBC wouldnt have 
known if it was set up with the intentions to defrauding its customers. From Mr Bs own 
testimony, he already knew that C had yet to come under the FCAs regulatory oversight. 
And he felt that he had carried out sufficient due diligence before using Cs services. Given 
there wasnt adverse information on C at the time of these payments, I dont think Mr B 
would have found any credible evidence of it operating a scam had he done further research 
following a suitable intervention from HSBC. In other words, Im satisfied that a general 
warning by HSBC  which I think is all it could have given under the circumstances  
probably would not have made a difference.
In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, Ive found no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to 
Mr B. Not least because the complaint has been ongoing for some time now and our 
investigator previously upheld it. But any failings by HSBC in this case were not the 
dominant, effective cause for his losses. They were just part of the background history or 
events that led to the losses.My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman