DRN-2791951
The complaint
Mr P complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) regarding its decision to 
proceed with debt recovery action and registering a default whilst he had a complaint being 
considered by this service. He wants Tesco to remove the default and charges and interest 
from his debt.
What happened
In 2016 Mr P sought to open a Tesco credit card and to transfer a balance onto his card. 
His card was opened and a credit limit of £2000 was set. £1900 of his balance transfer 
request was transferred to his Tesco card.
Mr P was not happy with this as the limit was lower than he had anticipated. He requested 
Tesco close the card and return the balance transfer to the original holder. 
Tesco initially erred and considered this as a request to increase the credit limit. This was 
then corrected and Tesco attempted to return the balance to the original holder. The debt 
was refused and remained with Tesco.
In May 2017, Tesco wrote to Mr P advising him that the debt was still with Tesco and that 
charges would thereafter be applied. 
Mr P was not receiving his mail due to having moved to a new house and his redirection 
service not working properly. 
In September 2017, Mr P complained to us about the issues with his card opening and 
attempted closing. 
In the meantime, Tesco continued to send statements, arrears correspondence and notice of 
its intention to apply a default to Mr P. In December 2017 Tesco registered a default and 
closed the account. 
Our service issued a decision on Mr Ps complaint in August 2018. 
Tesco then sold the outstanding debt to a third-party company in 2019. 
Subsequently, Mr P learned of the default when looking at his credit file. He says that this 
default was only reported to his credit file by the third-party purchaser of his debt. 
He complained to us. Some elements of his complaint have been previously considered but 
the new parts of his complaint are that he feels that Tesco ought not to have applied charges 
or a default to the debt while his complaint was being considered by us. He also is 
concerned that Tesco do not appear to have reported the default to his credit file. 
One of our investigators has considered this matter and set out his views to the parties. This 
was that Tesco had acted in line with its terms of service and had not acted unreasonably. 
He therefore did not think that Tesco ought to do anything further. 
Mr P did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He says that he was 
not told by us to continue making payments on his debt while the complaint was considered, 
and he therefore thinks it is unfair that this has caused him consequences.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator in his consideration of this matter. 
I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr P was given the impression, by this service 
or by others, that his debt was paused pending a decision on his complaint. 
There is no dispute that Mr P owed a debt to someone (be it to Tesco or the original debt 
holder) and I see no reason why a complaint about service issues would impact upon his 
obligation to make payments towards his debt. 
Tesco has demonstrated that it wrote to Mr P at the appropriate address, informing him of 
the state of his debt, and that it remained with Tesco. I understand that Mr P did not receive 
his post from Tesco, but Tesco met its obligations under the account terms and gave him 
notice of what was happening with his account. 
Equally, Mr P may have expected the balance to be returned to the original debt holder but 
when the sum of £1900 was missing from his debt with that holder it would have been 
apparent to him that this part of his debt remained with Tesco. 
I understand that the debt was not held where Mr P wanted, and that fees were incurred, but 
I do not think that this releases him from the responsibility of managing his debts and 
maintaining payments towards those debts. 
As no payments were made to Tesco, I think it was entitled to pursue a default notice, to 
register that debt and then to sell the debt to a third party. 
As set out by the investigator, it is not clear why the default did not appear in Mr Ps credit 
report prior to it being sold to the third party, but I have seen no evidence that this has had 
any negative effect upon Mr P, and may mean that the default is reported for a shorter 
period overall. 
For these reasons I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and do not ask Tesco to do anything 
further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and do not ask Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman