DRN-3032761
Complaint
Mr B has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly continued 
applying charges on his overdraft which caused him financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint and thought RBS should have realised 
Mr Bs overdraft had already become unsustainable by November 2017. So it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Bs overdraft from this point. RBS 
didnt respond. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think RBS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from November 2017. By this 
point, it was evident Mr B wasnt able to repay his overdraft. A cursory look at his statements 
leading up to this period shows that Mr B hadnt seen a credit balance for an extended 
period of time and the significant number of unarranged overdraft fees shows that he was 
struggling to manage. Equally, the credits going into the account didnt suggest Mr B was in 
any sort of position to repay what he already owed within a reasonable period of time either. 
So I think that by November 2017 RBS should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that RBS should have realised that Mr B was in difficulty and offered him 
assistance. As RBS didnt react to Mr Bs account usage I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what RBS did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what RBS needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit 
file, it should backdate this to November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman