DRN-3080849
The complaint
Mr M complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) lent to him irresponsibly by 
providing him with credit that wasnt affordable to him. Mr M also complains about the way 
JDW are proposing to pay the redress its calculated. 
What happened
Mr M had an account with JDW from 2016. This operated on a low and grow model where 
small amounts of credit were given on application and then depending on how the account 
was managed, the credit was increased gradually. Over a period of three years, Mr Ms 
credit limit increased to £2,750. The last credit increase was in January 2019.
In November 2019 Mr M was experiencing financial difficulties and communicated this to 
JDW. JDW accepted that Mr M was in financial difficulties and placed him on a repayment 
plan after he submitted an income and expenditure form. And from January 2020, it froze the 
interest on the account. The account was sold to a debt collection agency in March 2020 but 
was subsequently bought back by JDW. 
Mr M complained that JDW had lent to him irresponsibly from the time the account was 
opened. Initially, JDW said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong as it assessed his 
credit increase in a proportionate and fair way. After the complaint was brought to our 
service our investigator initially agreed with JDW. However, following further information 
about what would have been showing on Mr Ms credit file at the time of the account opening 
in 2016, our investigator changed his mind. He thought JDW had failed to properly take into 
account Mr Ms other debts. Our investigator concluded that these would have been visible 
on Mr Ms credit file and JDW didnt properly take these into account.
Our investigator recommended that JDW should refund all interest and charges along with 
8% interest on any overpayments. He also said that JDW should remove any adverse credit 
information related to the account. JDW agreed and calculated the redress accordingly. But 
even once the interest was removed from Mr Ms account, this still left a remaining balance 
of £1,702. JDW said it wouldnt be pursuing the remaining debt which it had already told 
Mr M. Following further correspondence from JDW about its calculations, it confirmed that it 
hadnt included the late payment charges, which amounted to £48. It offered to pay this sum 
directly to Mr M. 
Mr M disagreed saying he didnt think JDW should be able to deduct the redress from the 
outstanding balance, as it had previously said it wasnt intending to recover the debt. Rather, 
he considered the redress calculation of interest totalling £1,117 should be paid directly to 
him. Mr M also said he had found the irresponsible lending distressing and it had affected his 
mental health, so he wanted to be compensated for this. Our investigator considered JDW 
was acting fairly because there was still an outstanding balance which JDW would no longer 
pursue. Mr M asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint but I dont think JDW are acting unfairly in 
terms of the redress. Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mr M has raised a 
number of points during his contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point 
he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr M has said but limited my findings to the areas 
which impact on the outcome of the case.
In brief, I agree with the investigators view for much the same reasons  Ive summarised 
these reasons above. The only issue now in dispute is the way the redress is being paid. So, 
Ill focus the remainder of my decision on how I think this should be put right and the 
disputed issues around the redress.
The starting point for this part of Mr Ms complaint is that he has had the benefit of the goods 
he received as a result of the credit he was given by JDW. As our investigator has explained, 
the redress calculation isnt money Mr M has paid to JDW  this is simply a calculation of the 
cost of the credit that he would have been liable to pay if JDW hadnt lent to him 
irresponsibly. So, as he hasnt overpaid for the goods hes received, there isnt anything to 
refund to him. 
The calculations have been sent to Mr M. In summary, he has had the benefit of goods 
totalling £4,174. He has made payments totalling £2,571. When taking into account other 
matters such as discounts, delivery charges and so on, this leaves a net balance of minus 
£2,819. But once the interest of £1,117 is removed this left a remaining balance of £1,702. 
But this doesnt include late payment charges which JDW have offered to pay separately to 
Mr M as it wasnt included in its original calculations. So, I cant say that JDW is doing 
anything wrong by not paying its calculated redress to Mr M as there is still an outstanding 
balance of £1,702 on his account.
Mr M says that because JDW said it wasnt going to pursue him for the outstanding balance, 
he is entitled to receive the refund of interest and charges. But he would only be entitled to a 
refund if the calculations showed the repayments he made since 2016 were more than the 
costs of goods hed purchased. The fact that JDW is willing to forgo what it is owed, doesnt 
change that. 
Mr M says because he considers JDW mis-sold his debt to a debt collection agency, he 
should receive the redress calculations as compensation. But just because JDW had sold 
the debt doesnt mean Mr M is entitled to a refund of interest that hes never paid. Further, 
Im satisfied that JDW acted sympathetically and responsibly once Mr M told it about his 
financial difficulties and about the effect this was having on his mental health. In November 
2019, JDW agreed to an affordable repayment plan with him. And in January 2020, it 
switched to an interest-free arrangement. When JDW sold the debt, the interest remained 
frozen. And it agreed to no longer pursue a significant outstanding balance of £1,702.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome, I think what JDW have 
offered him is fair and reasonable compensation and I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.
Putting things right
As J D Williams & Company Limited has already carried out its calculations it should do the 
following if not done so already:
Remove the redress calculations from Mr Ms outstanding balance;
It can no longer pursue Mr M for any remaining balance;Pay Mr M £48 for the charges it didnt include in its redress calculations;
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against J D Williams & Company Limited and I order it to take the 
steps set out under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman