DRN-3956025
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly refused to 
meet a claim she made for items of jewellery stolen during a burglary, and has also 
cancelled her insurance. 
What happened
Im not going to go into all the details of this complaint, as they are well known to both 
parties. In summary, in early 2021 Mrs A was forced to allow burglars into her home at 
knifepoint, and they stole numerous items of jewellery and a safe. Mrs A reported this to the 
police and subsequently made a claim for the stolen items.
Lloyds asked for evidence of the items stolen, and says that it gave Mrs A several 
opportunities to provide this. It says it was only made aware of some evidence  a valuation 
from 2016  several months after it received most of the evidence Mrs A had to send. It says 
there are discrepancies between what Mrs A has said on several occasions and what she 
says now. Lloyds was also aware that it had settled two previous claims for burglary and had 
concerns that Mrs A was claiming for items paid for in previous claims  but hadnt proved 
shed replaced the items. Eventually Lloyds wrote to Mrs A saying it believed she was acting 
dishonestly and asking a number of questions about discrepancies. When a couple of 
months later Mrs A sent Lloyds the 2016 valuation it refused to accept it, and decided 
instead to refuse the claim and cancel her insurance in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of her policy. These said Lloyds could do this where it could show Mrs A had 
either deliberately provided false information or exaggerated her claim.
Mrs A is being helped by a relative  Ms H  with both the claim and this complaint. Ms H 
has explained that English is not Mrs As first language and thats the reason why she may 
have misunderstood what was being asked of her. Shes also said that its possible that she 
(Ms H) didnt always translate what Mrs A said precisely.
Mrs A asked that her claim be re-assessed taking into account her language difficulties.
Lloyds didnt change its stance so Mrs A asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator detailed the sequence of events to both parties and concluded that a fair 
outcome was to ask Lloyds to re-instate the insurance policy and re-consider the claim. 
Lloyds thinks its done enough already and that it doesnt believe there has been any mis-
communication. It maintains its fair for it to treat the claim as fraudulent.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs A and Ms H believe there have been 
miscommunications because of Mrs As language difficulties. Mrs A has had to rely on 
occasions upon Ms H interpreting questions and translating her responses  and Ms H says 
she may not have done this entirely accurately. I think its possible this could lead to 
problems, especially if it means Mrs A didnt understand how important it was to give Lloyds 
the information it wanted, or to explain any discrepancies clearly.
I do appreciate that Mrs A spoke in her preferred language to a member of staff at one point 
 but that seems to have been on only one occasion. The member of staff didnt seem to 
have any concerns about what he was told by Mrs A.
I also appreciate that Lloyds has given Mrs A a chance to respond to its concerns over the 
evidence she provided. But having looked at the correspondence it seems to me that there is 
scope for misunderstanding.  In particular the letters asking Mrs A to explain discrepancies 
are formally worded and complex. That could be difficult for Mrs A. 
Lloyds argument is, in summary, that there are discrepancies in what Mrs A says was stolen 
and that she didnt submit a 2016 valuation of the jewellery for several months. This 
valuation showed items at a higher value than previous amounts being considered. Lloyds is 
concerned that Mrs A is claiming for items it paid for on an earlier claim  despite Mrs A 
explaining that shed replaced some of those items using vouchers provided by Lloyds at the 
time. I havent seen any evidence that Lloyds has established the 2016 valuation isnt 
genuine, other than it shows different amounts.
To cancel a customers insurance on the basis that a claim has been mis-represented is a 
serious thing to do. It will likely affect Mrs As ability to buy competitively priced insurance in 
the future if she can buy it at all. The terms and conditions in Mrs As policy say that before 
Lloyds can refuse the claim and cancel the policy it must show that she or Ms H (as her 
representative) must have known they were providing information that exaggerated the claim 
in order to claim for items they werent entitled to. I cant see that Lloyds has shown this 
conclusively. I appreciate there are some discrepancies in the information Lloyds has 
received  but I also think this could be caused by Mrs As language problem. Id expect 
Lloyds to have made arrangements so that Mrs A understood all the questions she was 
asked and their importance. Mrs A and Ms H say there have been miscommunications, and 
Ive already explained why I think theres a real possibility this happened. I dont think Lloyds 
has done enough to establish the claim is fraudulent.
Putting things right
To put things right Lloyds should reinstate the insurance and reconsider the claim, ensuring 
that Mrs A understands the questions shes being asked and their importance. It could do 
that by using an independent interpreter and/or writing to Mrs A in her preferred language if 
thats what she wants. 
I should point out that Im not saying Lloyds must meet the claim, but only that it must 
reinstate the policy and reconsider it without Mrs A being at any disadvantage because 
English isnt her first language.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to reinstate Mrs A policy and reconsider the claim as described above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman