DRN-2272870
The complaint
Ms P complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited didnt tell her that it had 
settled another drivers claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms P told AA that shed been involved in an incident with another driver. AA told her she 
would likely be held liable and it recorded the incident as for notification only. The other 
driver later made a claim and AA settled this, but the claim wasnt showing as closed on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
AA didnt tell Ms P there had been a claim. So when she took out cover elsewhere, as a 
named driver on her husbands policy, she didnt declare it. And, when it came to light, this 
policy had to be cancelled. Ms P was also unhappy that the claim was still showing as open 
when it should have been closed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AA should 
have told Ms P about the claim to give her a chance to comment and so that she was aware 
of it. He thought this may have avoided the cancellation. But he couldnt be certain that this 
was the only reason for the cancellation. So he thought AA should pay Ms P £100 
compensation for its lack of communication. He also thought Ms P had to chase AA to have 
the claim closed. And he thought it should pay her £50 further compensation for this. 
AA replied that Ms P was aware that she would be held liable in the event of any claim. It 
said it wasnt its practice to update a consumer about a claim if this was the case. AA said 
the claim was recorded on Ms Ps renewal notice. It said it was for Ms P to give accurate 
information about any accidents to her new insurer. AA asked for an ombudsmans review, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms P thinks she wasnt at fault for the accident. The investigator has already 
explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is 
the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate 
how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Ms P the same as 
someone else in her position. 
AA said it had told Ms P when she notified it of the accident that she would likely be held 
liable. But I think the agent told Ms P that she was probably at fault, but this would have to 
be referred to the liability team and a sketch would be requested. I think at this point neither 
Ms P nor AA knew that the other driver would make a claim. So I think Ms P was left not 
knowing that she would be held at fault for the accident, or that a claim would be made. 
A claim was then made by the other driver and AA settled this and held Ms P at fault. AA is 
entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms P to take over, defend, or settle 
a claim as it  sees fit. 
Ms P has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of a claim, whether she 
agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont 
find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is 
reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
I can see that AA considered the versions of events. There were no independent witnesses 
or CCTV footage available. The damage claimed for by the other driver was supported by an 
engineers report that showed it was consistent with the circumstances. 
And so AA settled the claim, as I think it was entitled to by the policys terms and conditions. 
I think it could have asked Ms P for her sketch of the accident. But I dont think this would 
have changed the outcome, that Ms P was at fault. 
But I cant see that AA told Ms P this. AA said that Ms P should have seen this on her next 
renewal notice. Ive looked at the renewal notice it sent to Ms P six months after the 
accident. And I can see that the claim is clearly recorded on the renewal notice as non-fault. 
I can understand that Ms P thinks this was very poor service. I think when she notified AA 
about the accident, Ms P was uncertain that she was at fault. The liability team hadnt 
contacted her to say that she was at fault. 
I think Ms P wasnt given a fair opportunity to put across her version of events or comment 
on the other drivers allegations. Ms P didnt know that she had a fault claim recorded 
against her and she had clearly been told on her renewal notice that the claim was non-fault. 
So Ms P wasnt able to correctly answer her new insurers questions about previous claims 
and her husband cancelled his policy because of this and had to find cover elsewhere. I 
think better communication by AA could have avoided this trouble and upset.
AA mistakenly left the claim as open when it should have been closed. AA had made an 
outlay, but the claim was recorded as for notification rather than as a fault. I think this didnt 
affect Ms P at the time. 
AA then told Ms P it had closed the claim. But it was still open on CUE when Ms P made a 
subject access request. It hasnt been able to explain this. I think this caused Ms P some 
trouble and upset as she wanted to be sure the claim had been closed. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms P, the investigator thought AA should pay her £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its lack of communication about the claim. He 
also thought it should pay her £50 compensation for the inconvenience of having to chase 
up the closure of the claim on CUE. 
I think this is fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances. So I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms P £150 in total compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman