DRN-3611295
The complaint
Ms N complains that to Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) removed her overdraft facility 
without notice and that the account had only become overdrawn due to tech pack fees which 
she had asked to be removed. Ms N is also unhappy about the adverse markers relating to 
this reported on her credit file.
What happened
Ms N had an account with Barclays with a £500 overdraft facility. Barclays wrote to Ms N in 
June 2020 advising her account was over the arranged overdraft limit. It also advised that if 
the account came with a tech pack it will continue to charge for this unless Ms N asked 
Barclays to cancel it.
Barclays wrote again on 2 July, 16 July and 1 August and gave Ms N a week to pay off the 
unauthorised borrowing and advised if she failed to do so it would cancel her arranged 
overdraft limit. As Ms N failed to bring her account back within her limit Barclays removed 
her overdraft facility on 10 August 2020.
Ms N says she requested that Barclays cancel the tech pack but Barclays failed to do so. Ms 
N raised a complaint about this and the tech pack was cancelled on 16 March 2021 and 
Barclays refunded all the tech pack fees applied for the period it shouldve been cancelled 
and made a goodwill payment of £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms N complained to our service about a number of issues she had with Barclays.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ns concerns surrounding the removal of her 
overdraft and markers placed on her credit record and reached the conclusion that Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Ms N disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only covers Ms Ns complaint regarding the removal of the 
overdraft facility she held with Barclays. All other complaint points are being dealt with 
separately.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Ms N has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Ms N back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Ms Ns complaint point relates to the removal of Ms Ns overdraft facility by Barclays and the 
adverse markers recorded on her credit file regarding her account with Barclays. So the 
question I have to ask is whether Barclays did anything wrong in removing Ms Ns overdraft 
facility. 
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly 
when it removed Ms Ns overdraft facility. As in the four months prior to this happening I can 
see that Ms Ns account was over her overdraft limit. I can also see that Barclays wrote to 
Ms N on four occasions between June and August 2020 notifying her that her account was 
above her overdraft limit and what would happen if she didnt bring the balance back within 
her limit. And because she failed to do so Barclays removed her overdraft in-line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. So I cant say Barclays did anything wrong here or 
treated Ms N unfairly when it removed the overdraft facility.
Ms N says the reason her account was over her limit was because of the tech fees taken 
from her account and that she had asked Barclays to cancel the tech pack. But I can see 
that Barclays wrote to Ms N in June 2020 advising her that tech pack fees would still be 
deducted from the account unless Ms N asked Barclays to cancel it. And I cant see any 
record of Ms N doing so prior to her overdraft facility being removed. So again, I cant say 
that Barclays did anything wrong in continuing to deduct the tech pack fees from her 
account.
Ms N is unhappy that adverse markers are showing up on her credit report regarding her 
bank account and overdraft facility she had with Barclays. But for a period of four months  
Ms N was over her overdraft limit. I can also see that when Barclays wrote to Ms N regarding 
the outstanding balance on her account it did explain that it sends information about how she 
managed her account to credit reference agencies and that unauthorised borrowing (such as 
being above her overdraft limit) may affect her ability to borrow in the future. Barclays has a 
duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference 
agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate reflection about what 
happened. So again, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong here. 
Ive noted Ms Ns concerns that this is affecting her ability to borrow money. She might be 
interested to know that she can place a Notice of Correction on her credit records. The 
purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Barclays treated Ms N unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I explained Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman