DRN-3121714
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy Moneybarn No. 1 Limited passed on a debt to a third party debt purchaser.
What happened
 Mr S took a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in May 2018 to acquire a used car. 
Unfortunately, in October 2018 the car was written off and Mr Ss insurer deemed it a total 
loss. This left Mr S with a balance still owed to Moneybarn after the insurer paid out on the 
claim.
In September 2019 a repayment plan was set up for the outstanding balance, with initial 
repayments of £50 a month. Mr S made the initial repayments but was surprised to see later 
payments not being collected.
Mr S says that in February 2020 he checked his junk email and discovered the debt had 
been passed on to a third party Ill refer to as R. He complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn issued its final response in May 2020. It explained Mr Ss debt had been passed 
on to R after he had made three repayments to the plan. It pointed out some terms and 
conditions which it said allowed it to do this. And it explained it had recorded the agreement 
as settled on Mr Ss credit file with no late payments. So, it said Mr S hadnt lost out and it 
wasnt upholding his complaint.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He said hes lost out by 
the debt being passed on as payments werent collected. And he said he was unhappy 
Moneybarn didnt tell him what happened at the time. He asked for the debt to be recalled by 
Moneybarn and to be written off.
Our investigator issued a view explaining he wasnt upholding the complaint. He said, in 
summary, that funds were not taken from Mr Ss account once the debt had been passed on, 
so he didnt think hed lost out. He said he could see why Mr S was upset Moneybarn didnt 
tell him the debt had been passed to R but explained it didnt have to do this. 
Mr S was unhappy with this. He says the debt couldve been paid off quicker if Moneybarn 
hadnt passed it onto R.
The case was passed for an ombudsmans decision. Mr S then sent us some details about R 
and said they had sent bailiffs round to a family members house.
I sent Mr S and Moneybarn a provisional decision on 21 September 2021. This explained I 
was thinking of coming to a different outcome to that our investigator reached. My findings 
from this decision were as follows:
Mr S complains about the administration of a conditional sale agreement. Providing and 
maintaining consumer credit agreements like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Mr Ss complaint against Moneybarn.
Ive considered the terms and conditions Moneybarn provided which Mr S agreed to when 
he took the conditional sale agreement. Moneybarn referred to a specific part of these that 
says:
we will share your information with our associated group companies for the following data 
usage
Arrears and debt recovery and debt sale activities
I should point out that Im not sure if R is an associated group company. But, either way, 
looking at the terms and conditions it seems there is a more relevant term that would apply 
here. This says:
"We may transfer our rights and duties under this Agreement to any other person in a way 
which we reasonably believe will not adversely impact you. We will give you prior written 
notice before any transfer. You are not permitted to transfer to another person your rights 
and obligations under this Agreement."
Thinking about this along with the relevant rules and guidance, Im satisfied Moneybarn were 
entitled to pass Mr Ss debt onto R. But, according to its own terms and conditions it 
shouldve given him prior notice of this  which Im satisfied it didnt do. So, Ive gone on to 
consider the impact this had on Mr S.
I understand Mr S isnt happy Moneybarn didnt tell him the debt was sold on. And, I can 
understand this must have confused things for a short period before he became aware of 
what happened. And, Im satisfied this means Mr S was caused some distress and 
inconvenience. But, while I can understand Mr Ss point, I cant see this has affected things 
longer term or had a financial impact on him.
Mr S argues the debt wouldve been repaid sooner had Moneybarn kept it. But I dont agree. 
The repayments werent taken from Mr Ss account by Moneybarn once the debt was 
passed on, so he still wouldve had the funds to pass onto R and reduce the debt by the 
same amount. If Mr S spent these funds, then hes had use of them so hasnt lost out here.
Ive thought about what Mr S told us about actions taken by R, including sending 
representatives to his family members address. But, I dont think Moneybarn are responsible 
for this. Mr S may want to contact R about this directly if he is unhappy.
In summary, Im satisfied Moneybarn had a right to pass on the debt to R. Im satisfied this 
didnt affect how quickly Mr S couldve repaid the debt. But, I do think, according to its own 
terms and conditions, that Moneybarn shouldve told him the debt was being passed on. And 
Im satisfied this caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience. I think Moneybarn should 
pay Mr S £50 to reflect this.
I gave both parties one month to come back with any further information and evidence. 
Moneybarn didnt respond. Mr S wrote to me with some details to consider. He said 
Moneybarn needed to do more and the debt should be written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I still think this complaint should be upheld and I still think Moneybarn 
should pay Mr S £50 to put things right. Ill explain why.
Id firstly like to reassure Mr S that Ive carefully read and considered everything he said in 
reply to my provisional decision. My response here wont echo the length of what he sent to 
me. This isnt to be disrespectful, this just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr S explained in some more detail about what happened when his car was written off and 
the difficulties this led to. And he explained about some further actions of R and how this has 
affected him and his family. 
I know Mr S is very upset about the debt being passed on to R. In his response, he said in 
my provisional decision that I agreed with him that Moneybarn were wrong to do this. To be 
very clear, this is not what I said. I explained I thought Moneybarn shouldve told him the 
debt was passed on, not that I thought it was wrong to pass it to R. 
Having thought about this again, Im still satisfied Moneybarn could do this. But, having said 
that, Im also still satisfied Moneybarn shouldve told Mr S this was happening.
I was very sorry to read about what happened to Mr S and that this had an ongoing impact 
on his health. Ive carefully considered what Mr S said about writing the debt off. But, I dont 
think this is reasonable.
When considering what is a fair award here, Im only considering the impact on Mr S of what 
Moneybarn did wrong  i.e. it not telling him the debt was passed on. Its important to 
reiterate that, had it told him, the debt wouldve still been passed on to R at the same time.
This means, in other words, that Im not considering the impact on Mr S of the general 
situation. This means Im not making an award for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the accident, the fact the car was written off, the valuation by the insurer, the subsequent 
debt, the payment plan, the debt being passed to R or the later actions by R. 
Im sure the overall impact of this situation on Mr S has been very significant as hes told us. 
But, I think the specific impact of Moneybarn not sending a letter or email to explain the debt 
was being passed on is only a minor part of this. As this is what Im making an award for, Im 
still satisfied £50 is fair and reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
As I explained in my provisional decision, if Mr S is still unhappy with the actions of R he 
should contact it directly to discuss this.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to pay Mr S £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman