DRN-1664306
 
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under a group income protection 
insurance policy which she had the benefit of.
What happened
In December 2017, Miss H became absent from work and was signed off by her GP with 
anxiety and depression. She had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) 
through her employer, which can pay out a portion of Miss Hs income after shed been off 
work for 26 weeks (the deferred period). Miss H wasnt able to return to work by June 2018 
and a claim was made to Unum under the policy before the expiry of the deferred period. 
Unum declined the claim in mid-2018. Miss H appealed but ultimately, Unum maintained its 
decision.  
Unhappy, Miss H complained to our Service. By way of an opinion dated January 2019, our 
investigator said that Unum didnt have sufficient medical evidence to make a claims 
decision. He recommended Unum obtain further information from Miss Hs GP. Both parties 
agreed to this recommendation.
Having obtained further medical records, and after Miss Hs GP responded to further 
questions posed to them by Unum, Unum concluded that Miss H wasnt incapacitated - as 
defined by the policy - during the deferred period from December 2017 to June 2018. So, it 
declined her claim.
Miss H disagreed so referred her complaint back to us. Our investigator concluded, based 
on all the evidence, Unum hadnt unfairly declined the claim. Miss H has requested that an 
ombudsman review her complaint, so its now been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh and decide.
So that everyone is clear, this decision only covers the claim for the period December 2017 
to November 2018 inclusive (from the start of the deferred period to the date on which Miss 
H returned to work on a gradual basis), and whether Unums decision not to pay the claim 
once the deferred period ended in June 2018 was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before I explain why, I want to assure Miss H that my 
decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the very difficult time she has been 
through. It mustve also been hard recounting everything again when responding to our 
investigators opinion.  I appreciate the time and effort this mustve taken her in the 
circumstances.
Unums obligations and the policy terms
Unum has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably decline 
a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if they are unable, by reason of their illness to perform 
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation and is not performing 
any occupation
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member 
was actively undertaking for the employer immediately prior to incapacity
So, the focus is very much on whether Miss H was unable to perform the role she was doing 
because of illness. And I think its important to point out that when making a claim, its for 
Miss H to demonstrate that she meets the definition of being incapacitated.
Unums decision to decline the claim
Unum has said the evidence doesnt support that Miss H had an illness of such severity to 
prevent her from carrying out the required duties of the role she was doing immediately 
before her sick leave starting December 2017, throughout the entirety of the deferred period.  
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available when considering whether 
Unum unfairly declined Miss Hs claim. Having done so Im satisfied its decision not to pay 
the monthly benefit covering the period June to November 2018 for the reasons its given to 
be fair and reasonable. 
Miss H was prescribed anti-depressant medication and initially signed off work by her GP 
with depression and anxiety - and from September to November 2018, bereavement. 
However, it doesnt automatically follow that Miss H was incapacitated throughout the 
deferred period.
Theres little in her GP records from the time of  or shortly after  the deferred period 
reflecting how her ability to function was impaired by the way she was feeling. There are 
references in her GP notes to Miss Hs mood being low but there is also mention of her 
coping and living with her mum (who she was caring for at the time).  
Thats not inconsistent with what shes put on the claim form she completed for Unum in 
support of her claim during the deferred period; that she can do most daily activities when 
she feels up to it and that she cares for her mum. 
Miss H did write to Unum in August 2018, after the initial decision was taken to decline her 
claim, explaining that shed experienced the following symptoms:
- tiredness / unable to sleep;
- paranoia;
- crying and low mood;
- fear and anxiety;
- agitation and irritability;
- lack concentration.
Those symptoms are largely self-reported, and it doesnt look like Miss H underwent a 
functionality test during the deferred period or shortly thereafter. I note Miss Hs GP does say in a letter dated February 2019 that theyd read Miss Hs letter 
dated August 2018 and they confirm thats how she presented during consultations. They 
also say: understandably, she was off work due to caring for her mother, managing her 
symptoms of depression and anxiety triggered during that difficult time. She remains on anti-
depressant therapy.
In a further letter dated July 2019 Miss Hs GP says that a recent occupational report had 
concluded that Miss H wasnt fit to work at the current time. But Ive placed less weight on 
what the GP says here as that occupational health assessment was carried out around a 
year after the end of deferred period and isnt necessarily reflective of whether Miss H was 
able to carry out the requirements of the role she was doing before she started her period of 
sick leave in December 2017, throughout the entirety of the deferred period. 
And although Miss H says that she underwent an occupational health assessment closer to 
the date of the deferred period, setting out why she wasnt able to carry out her job role, 
there isnt a report confirming that.
So, all in all, based on the totality of the evidence, Im persuaded that Unum hasnt unfairly 
declined the claim. When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Miss H says 
about the very traumatic circumstances she went through during the deferred period and 
shortly thereafter  and how this made her feel. I have nothing but sympathy for what she 
went through. But when considering whether Unum has unfairly declined the claim, Ive 
considered the policy definition of incapacity and whether Unum has applied it fairly and 
reasonably. In the circumstances of this particular complaint, and for the reasons set out 
above, Im satisfied it has. 
 My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman