DRN-4277090
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way that Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit 
administered a mortgage. He considers that it shouldnt hold him liable for the shortfall 
balance that remains after the mortgage was repossessed. 
What happened
In 2007, Mr R took out a mortgage in joint names with his now ex-partner. The mortgage 
was for £127,500. It was administered by Engage.
In 2017, Mr R left the property. He said he continued to contribute to half the mortgage and 
other costs associated with the property  but when his ex-partner refused to sell the 
property, he stopped paying. The mortgage fell into arrears. Mr R said that he asked Engage 
to repossess the property, but it dragged its heels. 
In 2018, a suspended possession order was issued. But Engage wasnt able to enforce it 
because repossessions werent allowed during the Covid pandemic. In 2022, the property 
was repossessed.  It was later sold for £155,000. After fees, that left a shortfall of £7,900. Mr 
R complains that the shortfall is unfair for a number of reasons, including:
The proceeds from the sale were enough to repay the balance.
The shortfall is made up of fees of more than £6,000.
The mortgage balance was higher than it should have been because of the delay in 
taking possession of the property.
Engage did not fairly consider his request for the shortfall to be written off in view of his 
circumstances.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R did not accept what the investigator said. He reiterated his position that it was unfair 
that he has been left with the debt accumulated by his ex-partner when he had tried to find a 
mutually acceptable resolution. The delay by Engage in taking recovery action has had a 
detrimental impact on him.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr Rs ex-partner has passed away. I understand the impact of the 
shortfall on Mr R, particularly as I can see he tried to prevent the mortgage arrears growing 
to the extent they did. But after considering everything he and Engage have said and 
provided I am not going to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr R took out the mortgage he agreed to be jointly and severally liable for the debt. 
That means Engage could pursue him solely for the full amount of the debt, even though it 
was taken out jointly.  
Mortgage lenders can only take possession of a property as a last resort. They cant take 
possession just because one party to a mortgage thinks its the right thing to do. They need 
to show that theyd fully explored every way to get the mortgage back on track before taking 
possession. 
Taking the above into account, the evidence I have doesnt show there were any undue 
delays by Engage in taking the action it did. There is nothing to support that it should have 
repossessed the property sooner than it did. Of course, Covid meant that Engage wasnt 
able to enforce the suspended possession order for some time. But that was outside its 
control.
I appreciate why Mr R thinks it is unfair that there is a shortfall left to pay even though the 
property sold for more than the original mortgage amount. But it reflects that the mortgage 
was in arrears and the fees that were added to the balance. Under the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage, Engage is entitled to pass on those costs to Mr R. In my experience, the 
level of fees is not unusual where a property has been repossessed. I cant see there has 
been any error in calculating the shortfall.
Looking at the information we have, it was reasonable for Engage to look for Mr R to make 
an arrangement to repay the shortfall if, after essential spending he could afford to make 
payments towards it. Mr R has told us that Engage has started court proceedings to recover 
the shortfall amount. It is entitled to do so in the circumstances and I cant interfere in that. 
Mr R should seek legal advice about his options. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman