DRN-2947745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
On 20 February 2020, Mr and Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs Ds policy was due to cover 
a trip they had planned between 28 April and 4 May 2020. Mr and Mrs D also added two 
optional covers to their policy  terrorism cancellation and Travel Disruption Extension 
(TDE). In total, the policy cost Mr and Mrs D £550.76, which included a discount of £33.92. 
The premium included cover for Mr and Mrs Ds medical conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Ds travel provider cancelled their holiday 
on 3 April 2020. They received a full refund of their holiday costs. Mr D got in touch with the 
broker on 28 April 2020 to ask to cancel the policy. Mr and Mrs D wanted a full refund of the 
premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs D a cash refund. It offered them the following options:
The chance to move their single trip dates to within 18 months of the original policy 
purchase date; or
A pro-rata credit voucher which could be put towards the cost of a new policy and 
which would be valid for 36 months. In Mr and Mrs Ds case, Great Lakes calculated 
the refund due to be £17.57. It didnt include the amounts Mr and Mrs D had paid for 
the optional add-ons or take the discount into account when it calculated the refund.
While Mr and Mrs D accepted Great Lakes offer of a voucher, they werent happy with Great 
Lakes offer. So they asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had calculated its offer fairly. She set out the details 
of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. 
She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 20 
February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs D a pro-rata credit voucher. But she recommended 
that the refund should be calculated from 3 April 2020  the date the trip was cancelled. 
Thats because she didnt think Great Lakes was on risk under any section of the policy after 
that date. She also thought Great Lakes should include a pro-rata refund for the TDE. She 
recommended that Great Lakes should recalculate Mr and Mrs Ds offer by using the actual 
price theyd paid for the policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the 
days that werent used. She noted that the broker had separately offered Mr and Mrs D a 
pro-rata cash refund of the terrorism cancellation cover (which it had said could also be 
added to Great Lakes credit voucher if Mr and Mrs D preferred).
She didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great 
Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs D a cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations. It recalculated the refund due 
and increased the credit voucher amount to £231.16.
Mr and Mrs D felt the refund had been calculated fairly but didnt agree that it should be paid 
by way of a credit voucher. They felt the refund should be paid in cash. They felt the voucher 
was unsuitable, given their age and existing medical conditions and the fact that the Covid-
19 pandemic remains ongoing. Their destination had closed its borders, which remained 
closed. They considered the offer of a voucher tied them into buying insurance with Great 
Lakes, within a prescribed period, for a prescribed duration and destination. They considered 
that Covid-19 was an exceptional circumstance which should mean that the refund is paid as 
a cash refund. They noted that the investigator had referred to the fact that the voucher was 
transferrable to a third party  but stated that they had no authority to act as agents for great 
Lakes to other people.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think Great Lakes current offer 
is fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
a refund to Mr and Mrs D.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ds cooling-off period ended on 14 March 2020. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 28 April 2020. So the cancellation was clearly outside of 
the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use 
its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great 
Lakes offer of a credit voucher for the unused portion of both Mr and Mrs Ds core 
policy and the TDE is fair and reasonable. And Im also pleased to note that Great 
Lakes has now agreed to calculate the refund from the date the holiday was 
cancelled on 3 April 2020. Thats because after Mr and Mrs Ds holiday was 
cancelled by the provider, Great Lakes was no longer on-risk of Mr and Mrs D 
making a claim on the policy.
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the both the core policy and the TDE policy 
for a 75-day period if the policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the 
remaining, unused 32 days of cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes 
was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs D making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price Mr 
and Mrs D paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by the 
number of days it wasnt on risk. Im satisfied that this now leads to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because while I appreciate Mr and Mrs D are elderly and do have 
medical conditions, I havent seen any evidence to suggest they wont be in a 
position to travel at all in the future. They dont have to take the same trip to the same 
destination in order to use the voucher  it can be put towards any policy through the 
broker for any future trip they choose to take. And while I appreciate travel plans 
remain uncertain, Mr and Mrs Ds voucher remains valid until 29 April 2023. I think 
its likely then that they may be in a position to travel before the voucher expires. Id 
add that when the investigator referred to the potential to transfer the voucher; she 
meant that it could be gifted to friends or family, rather than implying that Mr and Mrs 
D should sell the policy on Great Lakes behalf. And I also note that Mr and Mrs D did 
accept Great Lakes offer of a voucher at the outset, when they cancelled their policy. 
Overall, this means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums and Im 
satisfied its current offer is fair.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the refund due to Mr and Mrs D (to be paid by 
way of a credit voucher) on the following terms:
A pro-rata refund of premium from the date the holiday was cancelled on 3 April 
2020;
A pro-rata refund of premium due for the TDE from the date the holiday was 
cancelled on 3 April 2020;
By dividing the actual price Mr and Mrs D paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman