DRN-2567464
The complaint
Miss L complains Amigo Loans Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. She says Amigo did not 
complete proper checks before lending to her; and had it done so it would realise the loan 
was unaffordable to her. 
  
What happened
  Amigo approved Miss L for the below loan:
Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments
April 2010 £3,000 60 months £108.40
Miss L says at the time she applied for the loan she was in financial hardship; and that her 
income was in the form of tax credits. She says had Amigo completed further checks it 
wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her. She says she lost out financially as a 
result of the loan.
Amigo says due to the age of the loan taken out, it is no longer in possession of a lot of the 
details of Miss Ls application. It was able to provide copies of the loan agreement and some 
of the application form. In its final response letter to Miss L; whilst it acknowledged the length 
of time that had passed; it maintained it would have completed suitable checks before 
lending to Miss L.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She argued the information on Miss 
Ls application form (no declared income or expenses) meant Amigo shouldve conducted 
further checks. Miss L had provided copies of her bank statements from the time leading up 
to the loan; and these showed the loan wouldve likely been unaffordable. 
 
Amigo did not respond to the assessment; and as no agreement has been reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint. 
The rules and guidance which applied at the time, required Amigo to assess Miss Ls 
affordability to meet the loan. The rules dont set out what specific checks need to be 
completed, but they do need to be borrower-focused. They also need to ensure the credit is 
repaid in a sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring further financial difficulties or 
experiencing adverse consequences.
When considering affordability, the guidance (whilst not an exhaustive list) highlights the 
types of sources of information which could be used included, evidence of income, evidence 
of expenditure and reviewing credit reports. 
Amigo has provided copies of the application form Miss L completed prior to taken out the 
loan. Whilst it is unable to say what checks it did complete, this application form does show a 
form of declared income and expenditure, and so I think it is fair to suggest it wouldve 
formed part of their credit assessment. 
The application form isnt particularly long; but it covers basic information about the 
applicant, as well as details of an affordability calculation and an applicants credit file.  
This information is completed for both Miss L and the nominated guarantor for the loan. And 
in the absence of any other information Ive placed considerable weight on the information 
provided within it. 
In the details section for Miss L, it shows her address, as well as account details. It indicates 
that she was employed by a retailer and held the position of Processing. 
In the separate affordability calculation section there are declared areas for wages paid in, 
monthly rent and mortgage payments and details for any other type of creditors an applicant 
may have. In this instance, Miss L declared wages paid is £0. There are no details about her 
rent or mortgage commitments or other credit commitments. The only listed expenditure is 
for the Amigo loan itself. Miss Ls disposable income is recorded as being -£108.40. And the 
final part of this section records Ability To Repay: Not Required. Its unclear to me why 
Amigo considered that it wasnt required Miss Ls ability to repay. As the Office of Fair 
Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance (in place at the time) did require it to carry out an 
assessment of a borrowers ability to repay before advancing credit. 
The section on what Miss Ls credit file shows is left blank, with no details completed for any 
arrears, missed payments or CCJs which may or may not have been present.
Amigo says, whilst it cant provide exact details of what checks it completed due to the 
length of time that has passed, it is satisfied it lent responsibly. 
Whilst I appreciate Amigos stance, I need to consider whether the above listed checks for 
suitable in the circumstances of this complaint. The information available suggests that 
Amigo proceeded with this application without taking any steps at all to understand whether 
she could make the loan repayments. Indeed, what it did gather suggests that she didnt 
have any income at all to make the payments. 
As Amigo is aware it needed to ensure it made a fair decision to lend, based on the 
affordability assessment it conducted. In this instance, Im not satisfied that Amigo did lend 
fairly. As Ive explained above the affordability assessment on Miss L suggests the loan was 
unaffordable. This is because she had a recorded income of £0; and the assessment shows 
that she would be minus £108 when taking into consideration the Amigo loan.
In addition, the information does seem to suggest that Amigo considered the affordability of 
the guarantor in relation to this loan. And from what I can see it appears as if Amigo has 
proceeded on the basis the loan was affordable to the guarantor, without making any 
attempt to check whether it was affordable for Miss L who as the borrower should have been 
able to afford it.
So on this basis, Im satisfied the loan shouldnt have been approved, and in doing so Amigo 
acted unfairly. Putting things right
In this instance Miss L has had the benefit of the £3,000 capital which Amigo has lent. Miss 
L should not have to pay any money above this amount as Im satisfied the loan should not 
have been given. In order to put things right Miss L should be entitled to a refund of any 
payments she made over this amount (plus 8% interest).
It is unclear from the statements of account how much money Miss L made towards the 
loan; and if the loan was settled by her or her guarantor. Amigo and Miss L will need to 
reconcile this between themselves. This may result in Miss L not receiving a refund, as she 
may not have made any payments over the £3,000 capital lent. Amigo will need to explain 
this to Miss L if that transpires in this instance. 
For clarity I require Amigo Loans Ltd to:
To treat any payments Miss L made over the initial capital amount which was lent as 
overpayments and refund these with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo Loans Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Amigo 
Loans Ltd must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman