DRN-3098108
The complaint
Ms D and Mr O complained that their claim was delayed and unfairly declined by Tesco 
Underwriting Limited (Tesco) under Ms Ds motor insurance policy. For simplicity, I will in 
the main, refer to Ms D in my decision who was the policyholder. For information, Mr O was 
a named driver on the policy.  
What happened
Ms Ds car was stolen on 19 July 2020. The car keys were stolen from a zipped pocket of a 
coat that was left unattended in a park, whilst the driver was absorbed in a recreational 
activity with a friend. The stolen car was subsequently involved in an accident with a third 
party. The third party informed Tesco of the accident. The car was recovered soon after, but 
it was damaged in the accident. Ms D made a claim to Tesco under her policy.
Tesco confirmed that an accident had occurred and then investigated to determine whether 
Ms D had a valid claim. Initially, Tescos investigation focused on whether the policy had 
been set up correctly by Ms D, which led to Tesco cancelling the policy. However, Tesco still 
considered Ms Ds claim and it informed her of the outcome on 10 December 2020. Tesco 
declined the claim as it said Ms D had not complied with the conditions of her policy. It said 
the keys have unfortunately not been kept securely in this case. The distance moved away 
from belongings combined with an activity that requires such a level of focus means in this 
case the keys have not been kept secure.
Ms D was unhappy her claim was declined. She thought Tesco had changed their minds 
through the process as to why the claim should be rejected and this caused delay. Ms D said 
I understand they needed to investigate however they should have really had all their 
questions ready all at once. It felt like each time we gave a satisfactory answer they came up 
with another reason not to pay. Surely the keys should have been their first thought. But it 
wasnt they went through other things first and [the] keys werent mentioned until months and 
months later.
Tesco apologised for not making Ms D aware of the issues with the location of the keys 
sooner. It said whilst the concerns around how the policy was taken out were being 
investigated we should have set your expectations around the keys not being kept securely 
in this matter. This could have been done much sooner in our investigation. Tesco issued a 
cheque to Ms D for £200 for compensation to recognise the impact this delay has caused 
you. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Tesco has been fair to 
decline the claim as Ms D had not met the terms of the policy. She thought there had been 
delays in Ms D being informed about her claim, however, she thought Tescos offer of 
compensation was fair. Ms D disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 9 September 2021. I said:
I have considered my decision in two parts.
Declined Claim
I have examined whether I think Tesco has been fair in declining the claim. I have checked 
the policy. Under Section C, I can see it expects all keys or devices are kept securely away 
from the car by you or the person authorised to use the car. The police report outlines the 
circumstances of the theft and it supports what Tesco said in declining its claim, that the 
keys werent kept secure. The drivers statement to the police highlighted this:
I was probably 250 metres away from the keys at the furthest point
I could see a group close to where my keys were.they were a bit intimidating.
As the keys were left unattended and unsecured, and this was a requirement of Ms Ds 
policy, I think Tesco has been fair in declining the claim. I think the driver shouldve 
reasonably have known there was a risk of Mr Os jacket being stolen along with the keys 
given they were left so far from him, unsecured and out of sight when he was focused on 
another activity.
Delayed communication of claim outcome
Ms D said Tesco couldve told her earlier that her claim was likely to be declined. Tesco has 
accepted this, as it has paid Ms D £200 compensation for this delay. Tescos final response 
shows that it informed Ms D on 10 December 2020 that it would not be covering her vehicle 
damage. This is around six months from the date of the claim, which seems a long period of 
time for Ms D to wait to hear the outcome. 
Tesco said The claim was on pend for the first 3 months while our underwriters made policy 
enquiries, off the back of this the policy was cancelled. Once we received the update from 
our underwriters as to what they were doing with the policy we began further claim enquiries 
in October, this involved enquiry agents and looking in to applying for police reports. Once 
we carried out our investigations we advised the customer in December that we werent 
providing cover for the claim. The customer was updated in relation to the policy situation, 
but we felt we could have set expectations slightly sooner in relation to the claim, which is 
why we awarded the £200 compensation. However, the timescales of the claim are
normal for a theft claim.
I think Tesco has been fair in saying the claim was on pend for three months, this is 
consistent with the claim notes I have reviewed. I think Tesco shouldve investigated all their 
lines of enquiry at the same time, rather than sequentially. With any claim, there will be a 
short period at the start required to gather all the facts to understand the circumstances, so I 
dont think the delay to Ms D finding out was the full three months. Tesco said the time it 
took to deal with the claim was normal. However, I think Tesco shouldve known the 
unsecured keys could be an issue for the claim and I think this could have been 
communicated to Ms D around two months earlier than it was. So, whilst Tesco said it dealt 
with the claim in normal time, I do think there were avoidable delays.
Therefore, I have considered whether I think £200 compensation is fair for the two-month 
delay. Ms D said the delay caused her a considerable amount of distress and financial loss. 
Her car was purchased via a credit agreement where she was required to pay a monthly 
instalment. This continued after the car had been stolen and damaged. She said she had to 
have the car collected by a salvage company and was left with debts over £10,000 to pay in 
relation to the overall costs of the credit agreement.My role is to put Ms D back in the position she wouldve been in had Tesco had not made 
the mistake of delaying the claim for around two months. I can see this is an extremely 
stressful situation for Ms D, due to the financial predicament she is in. However, the claim 
was fairly declined by Tesco, so the delay wouldnt have changed the need for Ms D to 
repay her credit agreement, so Im not going to ask Tesco to contribute towards these costs. 
I dont think that would be fair.
Ms D has explained that the circumstances of her claim and the debt has led her to some 
health difficulties, and I am persuaded by this. The circumstances of the theft and financial 
predicament is likely to have placed Ms D in a stressful position. I think the delay will have 
added to the stress Ms D suffered. Whilst the delay wont have changed her financial 
predicament, I think it will have increased the period of uncertainty for her which will have 
extended the period of stress she was under. I dont think £200 does fairly compensate her 
for this, so I am minded to award a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience the delay 
caused. I know this will be disappointing for Ms D as she was hoping for a contribution 
towards her financial loss, but I dont think its fair to expect Tesco to pay towards the credit 
agreement debt as its mistake didnt cause or contribute to this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Ms D didnt reply to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay 
Ms D:
£200* compensation for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the £200 already 
offered).
* Tesco Underwriting Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Ms D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman