DRN-2705799
The complaint
Mrs M complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly declined a claim
shes made on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 March 2021, an extract of which is 
detailed below:
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties so I have only provided a
summary of whats happened.
Mrs M took out a buildings insurance policy with Admiral in June 2019
In July 2019, she noticed water gushing from run off pipes in a retaining wall in the
upper part of her tiered garden so she called her water company
The water company visited and Mrs M says it concluded the drain pipe was blocked.
They made a number of further visits and unsuccessful attempts to unblock it
In October 2019, they were successful in partially unblocking it and through use of a
CCTV camera Mrs M says they concluded that the pipe had become uncoupled and
she should report this to her insurance company
Mrs M contacted Admiral and during the call explained shed had some work done on
the patio in the upper part of her garden in April/May 2019 and she thought this might
be the cause of the problem
Admirals agent investigated and Mrs M says it concluded the pipe had become
uncoupled and there was something blocking it but the subsequent report only
mentioned the blockage
Shortly after, Admiral declined the claim saying it thought the pipe had been blocked
by the work carried out in April/May 2019 and, as this was before the policy started, it
wasnt covered
Mrs M complained about the decline of the claim and that the agents report made no
reference to the damaged pipe but Admiral maintained its position and the claim
remained declined
One of our investigators upheld the complaint, saying Admiral needed to carry out a
further investigation and reconsider the claim, and he awarded £100 for
compensation.
Admiral disagreed and said Mrs M should now provide evidence the blockage was
covered under the policy
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When relying on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on the insurer to show its more
likely than not the exclusion applies.
My role doesnt require me to be a specialist in the field of water leaks so in reaching my
decision Ill take into account reports prepared by experts  on which Im likely to place
considerable evidential weight - together with other evidence and testimonies from the
parties. Ill also keep in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The terms of the policy explain in the General Exceptions section:
We will not cover you or be liable for any of the following:
11. Existing damage
Any loss, damage, injury or liability as a result of an event which happened before
this policy commenced
The report from Admirals agent which investigated the problem said the damage was
caused by
a solid obstruction of concrete/rubble preventing passage of any waste material.
The obstruction was located directly below an area of wood decking and concrete
slab patio
It concluded that the patio works had been finished shortly before the problem occurred and
that the damage had occurred before the policy was incepted. 
I acknowledge Mrs M says it wasnt possible the problem was as a result of the work shed 
had done on her patio and has provided detailed reasons why she thinks this. From 
Admirals claim notes Ive seen that when she first reported the problem, this was exactly 
what Mrs M was worried about  that the problems were as a result of the work on the patio. 
So its clear to me at the time she considered this a possibility, even if she subsequently 
altered her view.
I know Mrs M says both her water company and Admirals contractor said the drain pipe was
damaged or uncoupled as well as being blocked. But Ive not been given any reports from
either of these parties that supports Mrs Ms claim.
So in the absence of an alternative expert opinion Im satisfied it was fair for Admiral to rely
on the report from its expert in reaching the conclusion the damage happened before the
policy was incepted. It follows Im satisfied it hasnt acted unreasonably in declining the claim
so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
Mrs M mentioned she had a different insurance policy covering the previous period and she
may wish to consider approaching her former insurer about this issue.
Admiral didnt provide any further comments following my provisional decision.
Mrs M responded and didnt agree with my findings. She still didnt think the timing of events 
meant the work on the patio was the likely cause of the damage. She also suggested it was 
possible the water company or Admirals contractor might be responsible for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs Ms disagreement with my findings but in the absence of any supporting 
evidence to substantiate her alternative version of events, her comments havent changed 
my mind. I remain satisfied it was fair for Admiral to rely on the report from its expert in concluding the damage happened before the policy was incepted. And because of this Im 
satisfied it hasnt acted unfairly in declining the claim and I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman