DRN-4271323
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with what Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora 
S.A.U (Telefonica) did after she made a claim on her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
On Saturday 29 April 2023 Mrs H contacted Telefonica and said her mobile phone had been 
damaged and wasnt working. Telefonica accepted the claim but said it didnt have a 
replacement in stock. But this would be sent out when it was. Mrs H says her son was due to 
return to university two days later and a phone was required to link to his black box car 
insurance. So she purchased an equivalent phone from a local stockist (with the intention of 
selling the replacement once this was received from Telefonica). She handed over the old 
phone to the stockist as part of that transaction. 
Telefonica sent a replacement on 6 May. But, as Mrs H no longer had her old phone, it 
couldnt complete the switch. Mrs H thought Telefonica should refund the cost of the phone 
shed bought as shed only had to do that because it couldnt supply a replacement when 
she made her claim. Telefonica said it was Mrs Hs decision to buy a new phone and give up 
her original device. However, it accepted it should have provided a replacement within a 
reasonable period and offered to pay £105 in recognition of the inconvenience it had caused. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mrs H didnt agree. Sher said she had to get a new 
phone to enable her son to drive to university and shed only needed to do that because 
Telefonica hadnt fulfilled its obligations under her contract of insurance. So I need to reach a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Telefonica has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I can see from Mrs Hs policy and online information that Telefonica does offer a next day 
exchange service (on payment of a higher excess) but that isnt available in her part of the 
country. Its timeframe for a standard exchange (which is the option that was available to 
her) is listed as 3-5 days. 
However, in this case because her phone was out of stock it does appear it took longer for a 
replacement to be provided. And the evidence suggests Telefonica could have been clearer 
when the claim was initially made about how long that might take.  Im also unclear whether 
Telefonica considered any alternatives (such as offering a different model of phone) when it 
spoke to Mrs H. 
But I dont think that means Telefonica needs to reimburse Mrs H for the cost of the phone 
she then bought. I appreciate she needed to do so because her son was returning to 
university and needed a phone to link to the black box in his car. However, she says that 
was two day after her phone was damaged. So even if Telefonica had been able to provide 
a replacement sooner I think its unlikely it would have arrived prior to him leaving, given its 
published timeframes for an exchange. That means Mrs H would always have been in the 
position of needing to source a replacement so he could travel. 
In fact it appears her intention was to sell the Telefonica replacement device to recoup the 
amount shed spent on buying a new phone. The problem is, because shed handed over the 
damaged phone when buying the new one, she wasnt able to provide that to Telefonica. 
And the claims condition section of her policy says: 
Damaged Equipment, Damaged accessories and faulty Replacement Equipment must be 
returned to Us and must include the IMEI and serial number panel. The definition of 
equipment includes the insured device
I think its clear from that a damaged phone needs to be provided to Telefoncia as part of the 
settlement of a claim. I havent seen anything to show Mrs H had to provide the damaged 
phone to the retailer (rather than simply buying a new one). And so I dont think Telefonica 
acted unfairly in not providing her with a replacement or declining to reimburse her for the 
phone she bought. 
I do accept shell have been caused some inconvenience because it wasnt able to provide 
her with a replacement sooner or give clearer information on when it would be able to do 
that. But I think the compensation its already offered is a reasonable way of recognising the 
impact of that on her. And Telefonica has confirmed to us that compensation has been paid 
to Mrs H. If she hasnt received it she may wish to raise that with Telefonica separately. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 
2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman