DRN-3135928
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), failed to respond to her 
information request within a reasonable timeframe and withheld data she was entitled to see. 
Miss P had been the victim of a scam and made a subject access request (SAR) under the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to gather information to support her case for the 
reimbursement of her funds.
Miss P also complains that the letter Halifax sent her in response to her fraud claim 
complaint was incorrectly addressed.
What happened
Miss P was the victim of a sophisticated investment scam in July 2019 which saw her make 
a payment of almost £25,000 from her Halifax account to fraudsters. The scam was 
uncovered and reported to Halifax in December 2019. When Halifax refused to reimburse 
her in full, she complained and made a SAR.
Halifaxs final response letter (FRL) to Miss Ps fraud claim complaint was issued on 
11 February 2020. But it was incorrectly addressed and didnt arrive with her until she 
emailed the complaints team, discovered their error, and contacted the neighbour whose 
address it had been sent to. The FRL contained details of the scam shed fallen victim to, the 
amount shed invested, as well as summarising Halifaxs finding that Miss P hadnt taken the 
requisite care to check the legitimacy of the payee.
To be clear, this decision will deal only with Miss Ps complaint that Halifax dealt with her 
SAR poorly, and her complaint that the final response letter dated 11 February 2020 was 
incorrectly addressed. Her complaint about Halifaxs refusal to reimburse her losses in full 
and the overall handling of her fraud claim by Halifaxs fraud and complaints departments, 
has already been addressed separately and upheld  Halifax have reimbursed her funds 
with interest and made a payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience caused by their 
poor customer service and unnecessary delays.
Miss P made her SAR on 10 February 2020 (before the fraud complaint FRL had been 
issued). She requested audio recordings of six telephone conversations relating to her fraud 
claim. She later clarified her request and asked for all data regarding the fraud claim and 
associated complaint. She was initially told shed receive a response to her SAR by 
11 March 2020, but Halifax didnt send her any information until a month after that deadline. 
Miss P told Halifax that this delay caused her a great deal of mental and emotional 
distress.
Miss P considered the information she received from Halifax in mid-April 2020 to be 
incomplete. So, she wrote to Halifax saying some emails, case notes, and call recordings 
had not been included in the parcels shed been sent. She said this gave her the impression 
Halifax were trying to hide information from her and added:  you are distressing me 
further by making me continually chase you for this which is not good for my health.
As she heard nothing further from Halifax, Miss P contacted the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) who, in turn, on 2 July 2020, asked Halifax to respond to her. This prompted 
Halifax to treat her April correspondence as a new SAR in August 2020.
To begin with, Halifax reviewed what had been sent to Miss P in April 2020. They said a 
comprehensive search of the telephony system had been done to gather all calls relating to 
the fraud claim and said nothing had been withheld or redacted. However, they accepted 
that the fraud data included no copies of letters or emails (internal or external) only brief 
case notes, and that emails (either direct from Miss P or internal between fraud and 
customer services) which had not been uploaded to the complaints system, could have been 
missed.
Halifax responded to Miss Ps complaint about the poor handling of her SAR on 13 August 
2020. They upheld her complaint, said they were sorry she hadnt received all the 
information she expected initially and also sorry for not responding when shed contacted 
them about this. They paid her £100 compensation. They also undertook to provide the 
outstanding information in due course. Halifax sent Miss P a further bundle of information 
on 25 August 2020.
Miss P contacted the ICO again. In September 2020 the ICO concluded that Halifax had not 
complied with their data protection obligations because theyd failed to provide her with a 
response to her SAR within one calendar month. The ICO then wrote to Halifax asking them 
to provide her with any further information she was entitled to within 14 days.
On 6 October 2020, Halifax sent a further final response letter to Miss P about how theyd 
dealt with her SARs. They said theyd issue her with a new digital disc of calls but also 
informed her that not all calls are recorded and so notes referring to a call that took place 
may not have a corresponding audio recording to provide her with. They also said theyd 
included a further copy of an email from the Complaints Manager dated 11 February 2020. 
Halifax paid Miss P a further £75 and acknowledged that they hadn't complied with data 
protection requirements. This brought the total compensation Halifax awarded for the SAR 
complaint to £175.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Miss Ps complaint about the distress and inconvenience shed been 
caused by the mis-handling of her SAR. By way of remedy he said Halifax should pay 
Miss P a further £100.
Miss P didnt accept this. She said an additional £100 isnt enough to compensate her for 
whats happened, and that Halifax havent even apologised for their error in sending her FRL 
to a neighbour. Miss P said shed still not received a new digital disc of calls as promised by 
Halifax in October 2020 and the referenced email was not enclosed with that letter.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My thoughts on compensation
Having reviewed the evidence afresh I wrote to Miss P agreeing with her that an additional 
£100 isnt enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. So, 
acknowledging that Halifax had already paid Miss P £175 for the SAR complaint, but nothing 
to reflect the distress caused by the incorrectly addressed FRL, I asked Halifax to consider 
increasing that by £325 (so that the total compensation paid comes to £500). I also 
encouraged Halifax to consider if any data is still outstanding and, if not, provide Miss P with 
an explanation for this which she can refer to the ICO if she disagrees.Miss P thanked me for validating what shed been through with Halifax and also for the 
increased compensation. She reiterated that Halifax have still not sent her all of the data 
that they promised in their final letter i.e. the disc of all the calls and a copy of the email from 
11 February 2020.
Halifax agreed to pay Miss P an additional £325. They also confirmed they believe there is 
no outstanding information to send Miss P in relation to her SARs, but theyll re-send her 
what was referred to in their letter of 6 October 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with Miss P that there were failings in how Halifax handled her SAR, 
and that the fraud complaint FRL was incorrectly addressed.
I think Halifaxs failure to deal with Miss Ps SAR within the required timescales, the 
incomplete provision of information, the fact that her follow-ups on this werent dealt with 
between April and August 2020 and that she had to escalate matters to the ICO twice, all 
compounded the distress caused to her by the scam. Miss P felt strongly that her case for 
reimbursement would be weaker without all her data, so it caused her significant upset that 
she didn't have it all.
In addition, she was caused distress and embarrassment when the fraud claim FRL was 
sent to a neighbour.
In the context that Miss P was in a vulnerable situation, I think Halifaxs actions caused her 
considerable upset and distress; upset and distress that continued for many months. And 
because Miss Ps SAR wasnt timely or initially complete, it also required lots of effort on her 
part to sort things out.
Putting things right
I acknowledge that Halifax have already paid Miss P £175 for the SAR complaint. But, as 
Ive already explained to both parties, I think more compensation is warranted, particularly as 
shes received no compensation whatsoever at the moment for the distress caused by the 
incorrectly addressed FRL. I think it would be appropriate for Halifax to make the 
compensation up to £500 (so, to pay her an additional £325). Halifax have agreed to this.
I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances and that the additional 
£325 acknowledges the distress and inconvenience Halifax caused by sending Miss Ps FRL 
to the wrong address and also failing to respond to her SARs as they should have.
Im also mindful that Miss P remains of the view shes not been sent all the data shes 
entitled to from Halifax. So, I think Halifax should resend her the information referred to in 
their FRL dated 6 October 2020. Namely, the disc of calls and a copy of the email sent from 
the Complaint Managers email address on 11 February 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc  trading as 
Halifax to:
Pay Miss P an additional £325 compensation if they havent already; andRe-send Miss P copies of the information referred to in their final response letter 
dated 6 October 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman