DRN-3619144
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the way Unum Limiteds handled her income protection claim. 
Ms H brings her complaint through a third-party representative. But, for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as being made by her personally. 
What happened
Ms H has an income protection policy with Unum. She became unwell following her late 
husbands terminal illness. Ms H began suffering with symptoms of depression in March 
2020 and was unable to work. She submitted her claim to Unum in August. It was initially 
declined in October, however, following Ms Hs appeal in December, Unum offered to pay a 
settlement of just over a years-worth of benefit. 
Ms H was unhappy with this because she wasnt sure whether shed be off work longer than 
that and so, she rejected the settlement and commissioned her own specialists report to 
further support her claim in February 2021. Unum eventually accepted it and agreed to 
backdate the benefit amount and pay interest on top. Ms H wants Unum to cover the 
associated costs with obtaining the specialists report. 
Ms H also complained about the way her claim was handled overall and Unum agreed to 
pay her £200 compensation for the delays. But it refused to cover the costs of the report 
because it didnt ask for it. 
Our investigator said that Unum didnt have to pay for the report and agreed with its reasons 
for not doing so. But he also said Unum needed to increase the amount of compensation to 
£500 because he felt the overall trouble and upset caused was more impactful given Ms Hs 
particular circumstances at the time. Unum agreed with his recommendation, but Ms H 
didnt. In summary, she still believes Unum should pay for the report because it was needed 
to help prove her claim. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Hs complaint by agreeing that the 
compensation should be increased to £500 for the overall trouble and upset caused by the 
delays with Unum assessing her claim. But, like our investigator, I disagree with Ms Hs 
assertion that it should pay the cost of the specialists report. Ill explain why. 
Unums terms about this are clear that its not something it would provide cover for. They 
say;
We will pay for any medical evidence we request in the UK
Ive highlighted this term because I think its relevant to Ms Hs complaint. The term is 
specific in that itll only cover associated costs if Unum requested the report. Ive not seen 
any evidence of Unum asking Ms H to do this and so Im satisfied that Unum doesnt need to 
pay for the report. Further, I think it important to recognise that Unum, in December, made 
an offer to settle the claim. I think this satisfactorily shows that it was in agreement that Ms H 
was incapacitated. I know Ms H declined the offer, but I think it still supported that Unum 
wouldve accepted liability on her claim without the report. 
I know Ms Hs arguments against this are that Unum didnt accept liability until after she 
submitted the specialists report, but even if I accepted this, it wouldnt change my position 
because up until the point Unum accepted her claim, it was for Ms H to successfully 
demonstrate that she satisfied the incapacity criteria as defined by the policy. And so, any 
costs associated with doing this, would fall within the scope of Ms Hs responsibility. Further, 
unless requested by Unum, theres no cover provided in the circumstances  as defined 
within the policy terms. 
Unum said the delays in assessing Ms Hs claim were down to it being finely balanced, and 
to be clear, I accept its arguments here because there wasnt a lot of detailed 
contemporaneous medical evidence for it to reach a clear decision on liability. But I note 
Unum referred her claim to its in-house specialist  which I thought was the right thing to do 
as it provided further rationale about Ms Hs illness and the symptoms she suffered. I think 
this further persuades me that there was no need for Unum to commission its own 
independent medical evaluation, like Ms H did, because it referred to its own specialist for 
further guidance, which its entitled to do. 
Having said that, I think this process couldve happened sooner and I note there were 
unnecessary delays with the overall handling of this claim. I think our investigator adequately 
highlighted this and recommended a fair amount of compensation that reflected the trouble 
and upset caused. And so, I make no further award here for those reasons.  
My final decision
Im partially upholding Ms Hs complaint and so Unum Limited must now pay her £500 
compensation for the overall trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman