DRN-2303380
The complaint
Miss R complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) added a product fee to her 
mortgage balance after she transferred her existing mortgage to a new product. She doesnt 
think YBS did enough to bring this fee to her attention.
What happened
In January 2019, YBS wrote to Miss R to remind her that her existing mortgage product 
would expire at the end of March 2019, and it included details of other products available to 
her.
The letter explained that if she knew which product she wanted and didnt need any advice 
she could apply for it online, by phone, or she could complete and return the enclosed form. 
Miss R chose a fixed-rate product with a product fee of £1,495 and requested this by 
completing and returning the relevant form. A few days later, YBS sent Miss R a 
Product Transfer Offer, which she accepted. 
Miss R noted N/A on the acceptance form where it asked her to specify how she wanted to 
pay the product fee. She says this was because she was told around ten years ago, when 
she arranged her first product transfer, that product fees only applied to new mortgages  
not product transfers.     
Shortly afterwards, YBS sent Miss R a Product Transfer Completion letter which indicated 
her monthly repayments would be increasing slightly. Miss R says she didnt understand why 
her repayments would be increasing, so she called YBS to query this. 
Miss R asked whether shed been charged a fee and the person she spoke to told her they 
couldnt see a fee and further clarification would be sent to Miss R in writing. 
Miss R says she subsequently received a letter explaining the calculation hadnt taken her 
next repayment into account. Her repayments were recalculated, and she was provided with 
a lower repayment amount. She says she was satisfied with the explanation shed been 
given, so she didnt take any further action.
However, when she received her annual statement some months later, she could see the 
product fee had been added to her mortgage balance and her monthly repayments would be 
increasing because of this. 
Miss R complained to YBS that it didnt tell her she would be charged the product fee. 
YBS upheld Miss Rs complaint. It accepted it had given her confusing information and 
offered to pay her £35 for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, it didnt agree 
the fee had been charged without her knowledge. It said the fee had been clearly explained 
in the documents it had provided.  
Unhappy with this, Miss R referred her complaint to our service. She explained she was 
unhappy YBS didnt tell her about the fee after it received her acceptance form or during her 
telephone conversation with it. She says, had she been told about the fee, she would have 
chosen a different product with no product fee. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. She felt the product fee was clearly 
explained in the Product Transfer Offer and the acceptance form and she felt YBSs offer to 
pay Miss R £35 was fair in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS says it didnt recommend Miss Rs product transfer. The rules of mortgage regulation 
(known as MCOB) say that a rate switch can be processed on a non-advised basis in certain 
circumstances (MCOB 4.8A.10). Based on the information provided, Im satisfied the product 
transfer took place on a non-advised basis.
MCOB 7.3.1 says that businesses should communicate with their customers in a clear and 
fair way and not in a manner thats misleading. So, Ive gone on to consider how YBS 
communicated with Miss R and specifically whether it provided clear information about the 
product fee.
Miss R was provided with a list of 17 products that she was eligible for. The key features of 
each product were displayed in a table format underneath ten headings. The fourth heading 
was Product fee. For each product, where there was a product fee, the exact amount was 
shown. Where there wasnt a product fee, £0.00 was shown. I think it was clear from the 
information Miss R was given, which products attracted a product fee and which ones didnt.
The product Miss R selected clearly showed the amount of £1,495 underneath the heading 
Product fee. 
After requesting the product, Miss R was sent a Product Transfer Offer document. Under 
section 8. What fees you must pay? it said:
Product Fee This fee is payable in full and the funds must be cleared, before we can 
transfer the new product to you.
Next to this statement it showed the amount of £1,495. I think the information provided here 
made it clear Miss R was expected to pay this fee. 
Miss R completed and returned the acceptance form. Under the first heading on the form 
entitled Product fee, Miss R was asked to tick one of two options to pay the fee. The first 
option was to enclose a cheque for £1,495 and the second option was for the fee to be 
added to the mortgage balance. Miss R didnt tick either of these boxes and wrote N/A 
above them.
Having carefully reviewed all three documents, I think it was clear from the information 
provided that that Miss R would need to pay a product fee of £1,495. Miss R says she disregarded the mention of the product fee in these documents because 
she didnt think product fees applied to product transfers. She also says YBS hasnt 
previously charged her a product fee.
Ive considered Miss Rs explanation. However, I think it was clear from the personal 
information contained within the Product Transfer Offer document that it had been prepared 
specifically for Miss R, in her circumstances. I, therefore, think the inclusion of the product 
fee in this document was enough to make it clear that the fee did apply to the product 
transfer. 
Miss R also hasnt provided any evidence to show she has previously selected a product 
that attracted a product fee, but hasnt been charged this fee.
Further, Miss R says YBS should have contacted her to tell her about the fee after it 
received her acceptance form noting N/A where it had asked her to select how she wanted 
to pay the fee. However, I dont think YBS acted unreasonably by not contacting her.
I say this because the rest of the acceptance form had been completed correctly and 
Miss R had signed and dated the form confirming her acceptance of the offer. YBS had also 
made it clear in its offer document that Miss R needed to pay this fee. 
Miss R also says YBS could have told her about the fee during the telephone conversation 
she had with it.
YBS has told us that its initial calculation had been based on the fee being added to 
Miss Rs mortgage balance. So, it isnt clear why the person Miss R spoke to wasnt able to 
explain that to her. It also isnt clear why this wasnt explained in the letter Miss R says she 
received after the call. I agree YBS could have provided Miss R with clearer information on 
these two occasions.
However, Miss R had already agreed to the product transfer before the call took place and 
its clear that arrangements had already been made for the transfer to take place. So, I dont 
think Miss R would have been able to choose a different product at that time.
My conclusion
Im satisfied YBS provided Miss R with clear information about the product fee before she 
agreed to the product transfer. So, I wont be asking it to refund the product fee or to put 
Miss R in the position she would have been in had she chosen a different product.
However, I do agree the information Miss R was given after she had agreed to the product 
transfer could have been clearer. YBS accepts this and it has already offered to pay 
Miss R £35 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused.
Im satisfied this is a fair offer in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask YBS to do 
anything further.
If Miss R would like to accept YBSs offer, she should contact it directly so that payment can 
be arranged.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman