DRN-3890298
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
In making her complaint, Mrs W was supported by a representative. References to Mrs W 
include her representative.
What happened
Mrs W took out a pet insurance policy with CG in February 2022 for her dog, which was 
three months old. The following month, the dog had a problem with its eye. She took it to a 
vet, who diagnosed cherry eye condition. The vet carried out treatment, including surgery in 
April 2022. Mrs W subsequently made a claim for the cost of treatment (£1,108.89). 
However, CG said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history 
indicated consultations in February 2022 (before the policy start date) including mild watery 
discharge in the dogs eyes and bilateral marked epiphora with tear overflow and staining. 
They said had they been aware of this when Mrs W took out her policy they would have 
imposed an exclusion for eyes and sight. CG said that when taking out her policy, Mrs W 
would have been advised of the importance of detailing the dogs clinical history (which 
would have led them to apply the exclusion). As the cherry eye condition would have fallen 
within the exclusion, they wouldnt accept the claim.
Mrs W was unhappy at CGs decline of her claim, as she didnt think the clinical history 
indicated anything related to the cherry eye diagnosis. The vet said the breed meant its eyes 
were relatively big and exposed, which could lead to mild tear staining, something normal 
for the breed.  The vet added they had no concerns (when treating the dog in February 
2022) about its clinical pathology with its eyes, including conjunctivitis and cherry eye. The 
vet also thought there was no indication of cherry eye at the second consultation in February 
2022, the first signs didnt become apparent until March 2022.
CG considered the points made by the vet but didnt change their view to decline the claim. 
Mrs W then complained to CG. CG didnt respond to the complaint within the eight-week 
period businesses have to respond, so Mrs W complained to this service.
In her complaint, Mrs W said her claim should be accepted. She also didnt think the dog (as 
a young puppy at the time the cherry eye arose) was unhealthy and didnt receive treatment 
for the points noted by the vet at the consultations in February 2022. She also referred to the 
vets opinion the cherry eye condition wasnt related to the previous issues. CGs decline of 
the claim had a significant financial effect on her (covering the cost of treatment) as well as 
emotional strain. She wanted CG to accept her claim (after deduction of the policy excess).
As CG hadnt issued a final response, our investigator considered the complaint. She issued 
an initial view, upholding the complaint. CGs decline of the claim was based on their view 
that had they been aware of the dogs clinical history when Mrs W took out her policy they 
would have imposed an exclusion for eyes and sight. And that Mrs W would have been 
advised of the importance of detailing the dogs clinical history (which would have led them 
to apply the exclusion). 
Given this, our investigator considered whether Mrs W had made a misrepresentation, under 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), when she 
took out the policy. She concluded Mrs W hadnt made a misrepresentation, as she wasnt 
asked a clear question about any previous illnesses. She was asked whether she was 
looking for cover for a pre-existing condition and asked to agree to an assumption confirming 
there was no cover for a pre-existing condition. Based on the evidence and information 
available, the investigator concluded Mrs W had taken reasonable care when she answered 
the question (and agreed the assumption). So, she hadnt made a misrepresentation and CG 
had acted unfairly in declining the claim by seeking to apply a retrospective exclusion.
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should remove the exclusion and assess the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
CG disagreed with the investigators view. They said the cherry eye condition was a 
developmental eye issue for the dog, referring to the vets notes from the visit shortly before 
the policy started. CG said this indicated a problem with the dogs eye and (had they known) 
they would have applied the exclusion to the eyes and sight to the policy. CG also referred to 
the policy terms and conditions relating to pre-existing conditions  including what a pre-
existing condition was  stating they wouldnt be covered. CG said Mrs W hadnt complied 
with the policy terms and conditions, due to the eye problems before the policy began. 
CG also provided details of the sales journey Mrs W would have followed when taking out 
the policy. This included a question about whether she wanted cover for any pre-existing 
conditions. CG also referred to the policy definition of a pre-existing condition. As Mrs W 
declared there were no pre-existing conditions when taking out the policy, she made an 
incorrect declaration (and so, made a misrepresentation).
Our investigator considered CGs response. But she concluded the question Mrs W was 
asked wasnt whether her dog had a pre-condition  it was whether she was looking for 
insurance cover for a pre-existing condition? So, the question wasnt clear and specific (as 
required by CIDRA) and didnt ask what pre-existing conditions her dog had. So, Mrs W 
hadnt made a misrepresentation.
Our investigator also considered CGs point about pre-existing conditions (as this was a 
separate exclusion in the policy, different to their view Mrs W made a misrepresentation) 
including information theyd provided listing epiphora (mentioned in the second visit to the vet 
in February 2022) as showing cherry eye pre-existed before the policy began.
Our investigator didnt agree with CGs position, concluding the evidence (including that from 
the vet) didnt indicate the cherry eye condition wasnt related. The clinical notes didnt 
indicate the epiphora was linked to (or caused) the cherry eye. The first sign or symptom of 
cherry eye was in March 2022 (when Mrs W sent a picture of the dogs eye to the vet). She 
concluded the evidence from the vet was persuasive, so CG couldnt use the pre-existing 
condition exclusion to fairly decline the claim.
CG disagreed with the investigators additional view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They maintained their view there were signs and symptoms of the charry eye 
condition prior to the start of the policy, so they had fairly declined the claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here
Putting things right
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mrs W. 
There are two key issue in Mrs Ws complaint, reflected in the views issued by our 
investigator. Taking them in order, the first is whether Mrs W made a misrepresentation 
when she took out the policy, by not declaring a pre-condition. Mrs W says she didnt think 
the dog unhealthy and refers to the vets opinion the cherry eye condition wasnt related to 
the previous issues. Which implies there wasnt a pre-existing condition to declare when she 
took out the policy (so she didnt make a misrepresentation). CG say the sales journey she 
followed when taking out the policy included a question about whether she wanted cover for 
any pre-existing conditions. As Mrs W answered no to the question, she made a 
misrepresentation and that was why an exclusion was added to the policy (or would have 
been had they been aware of the clinical history and the eye issues recorded).
The second issue is whether the dog had a pre-existing condition (the cherry eye). CG say 
the dogs clinical history confirmed signs and symptoms of cherry eye before the policy was 
taken out. Which would indicate a pre-existing condition, so excluded from cover under the 
policy. Mrs Ws view is that the previous issues werent related to the cherry eye, based on 
her vets opinion.
Taking the second issue first whether it would be fair for CG to decline of the claim because 
of the exclusion for a pre-existing condition, Ive considered both views carefully, including 
the relevant terms and conditions of the policy (particularly those referred to by CG in their 
response wo our investigators views) together with the supporting information and evidence, 
including the vets notes and the clinical history of Mrs Ws dog as well as the vets opinion.
In their response, CG refer to the following statement in the IPID:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition 
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not covered?
CG refer to the Policy Definitions which state a Pre-Existing Condition means:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
CG also refer to the Veterinary Fees section of the policy that includes the following:
If we are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered and we reserve the right to add a 
relevant endorsement(s) to your policy in respect of these Pre-existing 
Conditions. . Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, the cherry eye diagnosed by the vet in March 2022. Or whether there were any 
clinical signs or symptoms. Looking at the clinical history, there are notes of issues including 
bilateral marked epiphora with tear overflow (second February 2022 visit). CG say this is a 
symptom of cherry eye (and cite a website listing epiphora as a sign of cherry eye). Having 
looked at the website, it lists a number of signs of cherry eye (including epiphora  excessive 
tear production). 
Ive also considered the clinical notes of the two visits to the vet in February 2022 (before the 
policy was taken out). The first visit notes mild watery discharge bilaterally  but no evidence 
of conjunctivitis and likely normal for breed. Theres no mention of cherry eye (either as a 
diagnosis or possible presence). The second visit notes bilateral epiphora (and conjunctival 
vessel dilation). But again theres no mention of cherry eye, and theres reference to 
differential diagnoses of trauma, developmental or idiopathic. The vets opinion also states:
This epiphora is not related to her [the dogs] laterdevelopment of cherry eye.
The vets opinion also states that a further eye issue (enlarged blood vessel) was 
asymptomatic and not associated with the later development of cherry eye. The vet also 
states the first symptom of cherry eye was the picture of the eye sent to them by Mrs W in 
March 2022, and the subsequent consultation at the end of the month.
As the vets opinion is based on their examination of the dog over the period, then I find it 
more persuasive than CGs view.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im not 
persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded CG would have acted unfairly to apply the 
exclusion to decline Mrs Ws claim.
Turning to the first issue, whether Mrs W failed to declare a pre-existing condition at the 
point she took out the policy, Ive considered the circumstances in which Mrs W took out her 
policy. Ive considered the Assumptions section statements Mrs W was asked to respond to 
that CG refer to in their response, which are:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
The question assumes a consumer would reasonably have known their pet had a pre-
existing condition and declared it. Given my conclusion it wouldnt be reasonable for CG to 
apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition, together with the vets view the cherry eye 
wasnt linked to the dogs previous eye issues, then I dont think it unreasonable for Mrs W to 
think her dog didnt have a pre-existing condition. 
That being the case, it would have been reasonable for her to have answered no to the 
question (which is what she did) as logically if she didnt think there was a pre-existing 
condition then she wouldnt have needed (be looking for) cover for a pre-existing condition.
 
It would also be reasonable for Mrs W to have accepted the assumption (as part of the sales 
journey) stating the policyholder accepts no cover would be provided for pre-existing 
conditions (if she thought there were no pre-existing conditions).
So, Ive concluded Mrs W didnt make a misrepresentation (under CIDRA) when she took 
out her policy.Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, and Mrs W didnt make 
a misrepresentation when she took out her policy, they should assess the claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of 
treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG accept the claim  they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date of Mrs W paid the vets bill to the date they reimburse her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Assess Mrs Ws claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd accept the claim, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Mrs W paid the vets 
bill to the date they reimburse her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman