DRN-3190514
The complaint
Mr Y complains that his financial adviser, Capital Plans Limited (Capital), provided a poor 
service which led to a financial loss. He would like his investments to be reinstated.
Capital provided financial advice to Mr Y. His pension was invested in a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider, which I shall refer to here as provider A. Mr 
Y also held an ISA with the same provider. He has a separate complaint about provider A 
which wont be discussed in detail here. I note however that I have considered both 
complaints together as Mr Y requested.
What happened
Mr Ys pension was invested in a SIPP with provider A. He also held an ISA with them. 
Capital provided financial advice for those investments. Under the terms of his arrangement 
with provider A, the investments were only available to Mr Y if a financial adviser was 
assigned to his account at all times. 
I understand that in early 2013 Capital confirmed to Mr Y that he had online access to his 
provider A investments. And that Mr Y confirmed in March 2013 to his Capital adviser that 
hed logged onto provider As online facility, which gave him direct access to his investments 
with provider A.
In summer 2018 Mr Y said he emailed Capital to arrange a meeting with his adviser. He was 
told that his adviser had left Capital. And that they were about to change their mode of 
trading. 
In July 2018, Mr Y wrote to Capital as he was unhappy his adviser was leaving the business.  
Capital replied on 17 July 2018, noting that if Mr Y didnt feel comfortable with the changes 
he might want to find an alternative financial adviser. Mr Y didnt respond to that letter. But 
on 3 September 2018 Capital received an email from Mr Y that hadnt been intended for 
them. The contents of this email caused them to write again to Mr Y on 4 September 2018 
proposing that they terminated their agreement. There was further correspondence on these 
issues between Capital and Mr Y, ending on 21 December 2018.  
Capital said that on 11 October 2018, provider A told them that by removing them as agents 
on Mr Ys account  and because they hadnt been replaced  his investment portfolio would 
be sold to cash. Capital said they asked provider A not to proceed with the removal of the 
agency so the investments wouldnt be sold. They said they were led to believe that the 
process would be stopped. And that this would give them time to consider the best course of 
action. 
Capital said that on 2 November 2018, they received a letter from provider A confirming that 
theyd been removed as agent on Mr Ys investments. They called provider A to ask if Mr Ys 
investments would be encashed. They were told that they wouldnt be.
In January 2019, Mr Y received a statement which showed that his ISA investments were 
mainly held in cash. He didnt at that stage know what had happened to his SIPP 
investments. He discovered later that the encashment had happened as his investment with 
SL required him to have a financial adviser assigned to his account at all times. As he no 
longer had a financial adviser his funds were moved into cash. 
Provider A said that they emailed Mr Y about the potential encashment in October 2018. But 
Mr Y said that theyd sent the email to an email address he no longer used.  
Unhappy, Mr Y complained to both Capital and provider A. He felt he hadnt been warned 
about the encashment.  
In their final response dated 12 September 2019, Capital didnt uphold the complaint. Capital 
said that Mr Y had used multiple email addresses to correspond with them. And that he 
hadnt informed them that he no longer used other email addresses. So although Capital 
hadnt shared Mr Ys newest email address with provider A, they considered theyd acted 
fairly. Capital also said that they didnt instruct provider A to encash Mr Ys investments. And 
that theyd given Mr Y a reasonable amount of time to find another financial adviser. 
Mr Y didnt agree. And brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. Although she acknowledged 
that it wouldve been helpful if Capital had shared Mr Ys newest email address with provider 
A, she felt that Capital had followed their terms of business.  
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator. He explained his use of email addresses. He agreed 
that he didnt instruct Capital to cancel old email details. But noted that theyd always used 
the latest details when communicating with him. He also noted that provider A always used 
his latest postal address. So he felt it reasonable to assume that provider A would have all of 
his latest contact details, including his latest email address. He said the email provider A 
used to inform him about the encashment was at least 10 years out of date. Mr Y also said 
that Capital hadnt provided him with a closing investment statement when they terminated 
their business with him. He felt Capitals administration failures had let to a serious financial 
loss for him.
From what I understand, Mr Y first found out his investments had been in cashed in January 
2019, although at that time he was unsure whether just his ISA had been affected. I 
understand that Mr Y reinvested those funds in November 2019.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be very disappointing to 
Mr Y. But Im satisfied that Capital acted fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
I believe that the crux of Mr Ys complaint against Capital is that he considers they have 
some responsibility for the unwanted encashment of his investments with provider A. He 
said they didnt pass on his most up to date email address to provider A. He feels that this 
led to him not receiving important emails about the encashment. He also said that Capital 
didnt tell him that his investments with provider A would be encashed once they were 
removed as his agent. Mr Y additionally complains that Capital didnt provide him with a 
closing investment statement. And that they terminated their business with him without 
notice. Ill carefully consider all aspects of Mr Ys complaint, starting with how Capital ended their business with him. 
Did Capital end their business with Mr Y in a reasonable way? 
Mr Y complains that Capital unfairly terminated their business with him. I can see that if this 
hadnt happened, the encashment of Mr Ys investments without his explicit consent wouldnt 
have happened. So I need to decide if Capital acted fairly and reasonably when they ended 
their business relationship with Mr Y.
Ive first looked at the terms of business that were in place between Mr Y and Capital. Mr Y 
signed the copy I reference on 11 January 2018. Section 13 states:
Our authority to act on Your behalf may be terminated at any time, without penalty and 
without prejudice to the completion of transactions already initiated, by either party giving 
immediate notice in writing to that effect to the other. Services being provided at the time of 
termination and the ongoing Charges relating to them will cease on termination although, 
transactions in progress at the time of termination shall be processed to completion as if the 
termination had not taken place, unless specifically aborted by You In writing.
So the terms of business allow Capital to terminate the relationship at any time, with 
immediate notice. But I also need to consider if Capital acted fairly and reasonably when 
they terminated the relationship. So I looked at the chain of events that led to the 
termination. 
Mr Y wrote to Capital on 13 July 2018 as he was unhappy his trusted advisor was leaving 
the business. He also felt that Capital had chosen to materially change their method of 
investment operation. And he strongly disapproved of their plans. 
Capital replied to Mr Ys letter on 17 July 2018. They noted that he had to feel comfortable 
with Capital and with his new adviser. But said: if that is not the case, I understand that you 
may wish to find an alternative.
Mr Y didnt reply to the 17 July 2018 letter from Capital. But inadvertently sent an email 
intended for his old adviser to Capital on 3 September 2018. In that email, it initially 
appeared to Capital that Mr Y was trying to arrange to see his old adviser for advice. 
Having read the 3 September 2018 email, Capital wrote to Mr Y on 4 September 2018. They 
noted hed not replied to their letter of 17 July 2018. They said they felt the 3 September 
2018 email theyd received made it clear Mr Y had no intention of remaining a Capital client. 
And said they felt it was best if they formally ended their agreement to provide services to 
him. The letter gave Mr Y formal notice that Capital would no longer act as his financial 
advisers with immediate effect. It also said they would contact the relevant providers to stop 
all their ongoing adviser charges.
Capital asked provider A to stop the ongoing adviser charge for Mr Y on 5 September 2018. 
They said they emailed their telephone sales support consultant at provider A to ask if any 
further action was required to remove their agency. Capital said they chased provider A on 
13 September 2018, 27 September 2018 and on 10 October 2018. I understand that Capital 
were effectively removed as agents on 11 October 2018.
There was further correspondence between Mr Y and Capital where it was made clear that it 
had never been Mr Ys intention to discuss financial matters with his former adviser. And that 
hed found the accusation insulting. Mr Y also felt that Capital had acted unprofessionally by 
failing to give him a contact point with provider A. Capital said that it was clear to them that 
Mr Y didnt feel at all comfortable working with their company. And that was why theyd decided to formally end the relationship. They offered to recommend other suitable advisers 
if Mr Y wanted them to. 
In further correspondence, Mr Y said hed asked for a contact point at provider A without 
success. And that he felt it unprofessional that Capital hadnt provided a summary of his 
investments. He felt that the recent service from Capital had deteriorated. Capital replied 
with provider As contact details.
Ive carefully considered the correspondence between Mr Y and Capital. And what both 
parties have told this service. Im satisfied that the evidence Ive seen shows that the 
relationship between the two parties had broken down. 
Looking at the chain of events, I consider that Capitals initial response in July 2018 was 
reasonable. They didnt at this stage end their agreement with Mr Y. But they did suggest 
that he may want to consider a new adviser if he wasnt comfortable with their offer. But on 4 
September 2018, Capital said it would be best if the relationship was terminated. Again, I 
consider that this was reasonable. More than six weeks had passed since their July 2018 
response. Mr Y hadnt replied to that letter. So Im satisfied that Capital reasonably 
considered that Mr Y no longer wanted their services. So I consider that Mr Y had a lengthy 
period of time, starting from the 17 July 2018 letter, to arrange a replacement financial 
adviser. And, in any event, the terms of business allow Capital to end the relationship with 
immediate effect. 
By the end of the chain of correspondence between Mr Y and Capital on this matter, Capital 
explained they were happy to re-engage with Mr Y if he wanted them to. But Mr Y didnt 
want to re-engage. I consider that the chain of correspondence shows that Mr Y understood 
that the relationship had been terminated. And that he accepted the termination. I say this 
because Ive seen no evidence that he tried to re-engage with Capital. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Capital acted fairly and reasonably when they ended the financial 
relationship between them and Mr Y. 
Mr Y has suggested that Capital didnt act professionally. Ill now consider that part of his 
complaint. 
Did Capital act professionally?
Mr Y said Capital had acted unprofessionally as they had failed to provide a summary of his 
investments. And they hadnt given him a contact point with provider A after terminating their 
agreement. Or checked with provider A that they held his correct address, telephone number 
or email address.
Capital felt Mr Y had enough documentation, including plan numbers, to be able to contact 
provider A directly. 
I understand why Mr Y wouldve liked to receive an investment summary. But Ive found no 
requirement on Capital to produce such a summary. Ive also found no requirement on 
Capital to provide contact details or to update provider A with up to date details for Mr Y. So 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this part of the complaint. 
Ill now consider whether Capital should be held responsible for the communication failure 
between provider A and Mr Y.
Should Capital have passed on Mr Ys most up to date email address to provider A?Mr Y said that Capital shouldve provided up to date email addresses to provider A.
He also said that Capital had told him that provider A had confirmed that removing them as 
his agent wouldnt affect his investments with provider A. He said that this was comforting 
news which he relied upon. Provider A acknowledged that theyd incorrectly told Capital that 
Mr Y would remain invested, despite this not being possible under the terms and conditions 
of the arrangement. Mr Y said that if either Capital or provider A had advised him that he had 
to have a financial adviser attached to his investments, he wouldve got one.
But in reality, provider A had used an email address for Mr Y which he couldnt access when 
theyd emailed him to give him notice of the encashment. Provider A hadnt sent the same 
information to Capital as they were no longer Mr Ys agent. Capital said that the email 
address that provider A used was the address that hed asked them to use to set up his 
online account with provider A. But Mr Y said he hadnt used that email address for several 
years and had no access to it.
Capital said that they received emails from Mr Y from several different addresses. They said 
that it wasnt their policy to update product providers of a change of email address. And that 
they could find no record of Mr Y telling them that the email address provider A had used to 
inform him about the encashment had been discontinued until he told them in July 2019.
Capital acknowledged that Mr Y had told them hed permanently moved residential address. 
But said they hadnt been told that hed permanently changed his email address. They said it 
wasnt their responsibility to tell provider A every time a client uses a different email address 
to contact them.
Capital said that the only email addresses that had been passed to provider A were those Mr 
Y had directly provided on application forms. They said hed got a direct link to provider A 
through the online portal. And therefore they considered that Mr Y could see 
communications theyd sent him through this system.
Capital also said that they didnt tell Mr Y that his investments with provider A would be 
encashed as provider A had told them on 2 November 2018 that the funds wouldnt be sold. 
Instead, they would just be taken out of the model. Capital acknowledged that provider As 
terms and conditions confirmed that investments would be sold. But said that provider A had 
told them differently during a phone call on 11 October 2018.
From the business file, Ive seen that on 11 October 2018, provider A confirmed in a phone 
call with Capital that the normal procedure was for them to disinvest the money after 10 days 
had passed. Capital told provider A not to proceed with their removal as agents as they 
didnt want this to happen. But it appears that provider A did remove Capital as agents as 
they wrote to Mr Y the following day to tell him what would happen to his investments. They 
said that as Capital had asked them to remove them as his agent, his investments couldnt 
remain in the managed portfolio they were in. Instead, they would sell all the investments 
held in the managed portfolio within 10 business days. 
When Mr Y found out his investments had been encashed, he asked provider A for an 
explanation. And complained to Capital. 
On 11 March 2019, Capital told Mr Y that as they were no longer his agents with provider A, 
they couldnt see or track the investments it held. They said it appeared that Mr Ys funds 
had been sold as his valuation showed it was in cash. They said that if he hadnt instructed 
provider A to sell his funds they would raise this with provider A, as it was not in line with 
what provider A had confirmed to them. They confirmed that they were no longer receiving 
any fees or commission from Mr Ys plans. During Capitals investigation into his complaint, Capital noted on 9 July 2019 that provider A 
had called them to confirm which email address theyd used for Mr Y when theyd sent 
notification of the potential encashment. This was sent at 9.49 am on 12 October 2018 to the 
email address Mr Y had registered with them. Theyd used the same email address on 30 
October 2018 to confirm that Capital had been removed as Mr Ys agents. Capitals notes 
record that provider A confirmed that the e-mail was not returned as undeliverable, so they 
assumed the address was correct. Provider A had said that if the email had been returned, 
they wouldve tried to call Mr Y for a correct e-mail address. And then wouldve sent the 
communication again.
Mr Y said that his Capital adviser had always checked his contact details at every six-
monthly financial review. He felt that Capital shouldve known that some of his email 
addresses were defunct as they were related to his postal addresses. Therefore he felt that if 
Capital had known hed moved to a new postal address, they shouldve also known that his 
email address had changed. And that his old one would be defunct. 
Mr Y said that Capital had stated hed completed a form for provider A where he included the 
email address theyd tried and failed to contact him on. And that hed not kept provider A 
informed of his new email addresses. He said this was all true. But that all his 
communications with provider A had been through Capital. Mr Y said: It is true that when I 
informed them of my latest address details I did not instruct them to cancel old details held 
however Capital always used the latest details when communicating with me and provider A 
always used my latest postal address. Therefore he felt that Capital shouldve kept provider 
A up to date at all times with all his details, not just his postal address. And felt that Capital 
shouldve made it clear to him that provider A would encash his investments if he removed 
them as his agent. He felt that his plans couldve remained invested even without a 
nominated adviser.
I carefully considered all the evidence before coming to my decision. I acknowledge that Mr 
Y felt that provider A had been provided with fully up to date contact information. But from 
what Ive seen, even Capital didnt always use Mr Ys most up to date email address. For 
example, they used an out of date email address for Mr Y in May 2019. In that case, they 
were able to re-send the information to Mr Y. Ive also seen that Capital had told Mr Y that 
the number of email addresses he used caused confusion. Based on everything Ive seen, 
Ive no evidence that Mr Y told Capital that the email address provider A tried to use was no 
longer active. 
I agree with our investigator that this service would typically expect Capital to make Mr Y 
aware that his investments may be encashed if he ceased to be their client. Capital checked 
this with provider A. And were incorrectly told that Mr Ys investments wouldnt be encashed. 
From what Ive seen, Capital acted fairly and reasonably, even though they didnt tell Mr Y 
that his investments would be encashed. I say this because provider A told them that Mr Ys 
funds wouldnt be moved to cash. And I consider that they reasonably relied on this 
information. 
Ill now consider whether Capital acted reasonably when they didnt pass on any new email 
addresses Mr Y used. I acknowledge that because Mr Y didnt have access to the emails 
provider A sent him in October 2018, he didnt find out that his investments would be 
encashed at the time. 
Ive looked at the terms of business between Mr Y and Capital and can find no requirement 
for Capital to pass on further email addresses to investment providers.
From what Ive seen, Mr Y had a history of regularly changing the email address he used in 
correspondence with Capital. But Ive seen no evidence that he ever told Capital that other email addresses hed used in the past were no longer active. Mr Y himself confirmed that he 
hadnt told Capital that the email address provider A tried to use was disused. Or that he 
couldnt access emails sent to that address. I consider that email addresses usually remain 
active and accessible, even if a person uses more than one email address in their daily life. 
So Im not persuaded that Capital could or shouldve known which of Mr Ys email addresses 
were still active unless he explicitly told them. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr Y ever told 
Capital that any of his email addresses were no longer in use. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to hold Capital responsible for not passing on further email addresses to 
provider A.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that Capital acted fairly when they 
provided Mr Ys updated residential address to provider A, but didnt provide his additional 
email address. Therefore I dont uphold this complaint, as Ive no evidence that Capital did 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman