DRN-3922395
The complaint
Mrs D and the estate of Mr S complain that First Holiday Finance Limited (FHFL) didnt deal 
fairly with claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the 
purchase of a holiday product in 2011.
Mr S has sadly passed away and the complaint is being progressed by his estate and Mrs D, 
who are both represented by a firm of solicitors (that Ill call S).
What happened
Mrs D and the late Mr S purchased the relevant product on 30 May 2011 from a supplier 
(that Ill refer to as C). The product cost over £17,000 and the purchase was funded by 
trading in an existing membership for about £4,000 and taking out a fixed sum loan from 
FHFL for the balance. Mrs D and the late Mr S were unhappy with the purchase and they 
thought FHFL failed to carry out proper checks before lending. So, with assistance from S, 
they raised claims under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA with FHFL on 30 March 2020.
FHFL responded in May 2020 indicating that it didnt accept the claims. The matter was 
referred to this service a month later and one of our investigators considered the evidence. 
He didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt look into the irresponsible 
lending complaint - because he thought lending under this type of agreement wasnt within 
our jurisdiction at the time of sale. And he considered the claims made under sections 75 
and 140A of the CCA were raised too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
The representatives of Mrs D and the estate of Mr S disagreed. In summary, S said the 
claims were brought in time - under the Financial Conduct Authoritys six and three-year time 
limit and time under the LA could (and should) be extended under section 32 LA because C 
had deliberately concealed the fact that the timeshare could be relinquished by giving notice.
The investigator responded explaining that the six and three year time limit relates to the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service and this doesnt affect limitation under the 
LA. He wasnt persuaded that section 32 applied to extend time under the LA and he 
remained of the view the complaint should not be upheld so S asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.  
Having considered the available evidence I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint but my 
reasons were not quite the same as the investigators. I issued a provisional decision on 10 
January 2023 to give the parties the opportunity to make further submissions (if they wanted 
to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out below (in italics) what I decided provisionally 
(and why) and this forms part of my final decision. 
Provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the merits of this complaint on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
S has provided detailed submissions and made reference to various regulations, legislation 
and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the law and regulations, 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, 
when I make my decision. And I want to assure the parties, if I dont address every point 
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. Ive considered everything 
thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think 
is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mrs D and the estate of Mr S bring claims under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA and, in 
this decision, Im considering whether FHFL has provided a fair and reasonable response to 
those claims. Our investigator thinks any right they may have to bring these claims against 
FHFL is probably out of time under the LA. If thats correct, I think its something that FHFL 
could reasonably take into account when it decided to decline the claims. I should make it 
clear however that Im not deciding here if any right to bring the relevant claims has expired 
under the LA  thats a matter for the courts.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75, a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain
circumstances. Mrs D and the estate of Mr S claim that misrepresentations were made and I
think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort)
for damages under section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to
causes of action for sums recoverable under statute. Both sections impose a limitation
period of six years from the date that a cause of action accrues.
Im satisfied the date on which the cause of action accrued in this case will be the same as
the date upon which the misrepresentation alleged under section 75 became actionable 
that is the date the damage is suffered. I think any relevant damage would have been
incurred when Mrs D and the late Mr S bought the product and took out the finance - among
other things, this was when they incurred any liability under the product agreement and paid
for the benefits which they say were misrepresented. This means any claim under section 75 
would need to be made within six years of the date of the product purchase in 2011. Im 
satisfied that more than six years had passed before they contacted FHFL in March 2020 
and I think the period within which they had to bring an action under section 75 had probably 
expired by this point. It follows I cant reasonably conclude that it was wrong of FHFL to 
decline the section 75 claim.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I
think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account. 
Im satisfied the time limit, within which Mrs D and the estate of Mr S had to bring any
relevant claim, is six years from the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. Ive seen a
statement of account that shows the loan was settled in September 2013. And I think any
claim under section 140A would need to be raised within six years of that date - no later than
September 2019. Im satisfied that Mrs D and the late Mr S didnt contact FHFL until March 
2020. I think any right they had to bring such a claim had probably expired by then so I cant 
fairly find it was unreasonable for FHFL to decline the section 140A claim. I realise it may 
feel unfair that Ive referred to time limits that Mrs D and the late Mr S were unaware of. Im 
afraid lack of knowledge of relevant time limits isnt generally accepted as grounds for 
extending limitation but Ive considered whether there are other grounds to do so.Section 32 LA
S refers to section 32 of the LA which relates to the extension of time for starting an action if
fraud, mistake or concealment are found - or could with reasonable diligence have been
discovered. Ive considered this but, for the reasons Ive set out below, Im not persuaded
that section 32 assists, in these particular circumstances.
As far as I can see, Mrs D and the late Mr S probably used the product not long after the
initial purchase. And, given the nature of the misrepresentations alleged, I think they would
likely have realised that they werent receiving the services and benefits they expected, fairly
early on. I cant be certain thats the case. But Im minded to find, on balance, its more likely
than not they had enough information to bring any relevant claims within the time limits
referred to. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect them to have done so.
I have considered everything that S has said but Im not persuaded the things being
complained about were withheld due to fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake in the 
particular circumstances here. And they could, I think, have been uncovered by exercising 
reasonable diligence, in any event. It follows Im not persuaded that section 32 assists and I 
agree with the investigator these claims were raised too late.
Unaffordable lending
Mrs D and the late Mr S also say proper credit checks were not undertaken before lending
and it was irresponsible of FHFL to provide the finance. I can see they took out this fixed
sum loan in 2011 and Im satisfied that this service can look into the decision to lend.
I accept FHFL was required to undertake checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D and the late Mr S
were likely to be able to afford to repay the borrowing without too much difficulty. But, even if
I were to find FHFL didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be
satisfied that this loan was actually unaffordable for them in order to reasonably uphold this
part of the complaint.
I havent got much information about Mrs D and the late Mr Ss circumstances at the relevant
time. It looks as if they were asked for information about their income and outgoings - Ive
seen an application form where they declared joint income of about £56,000 and a mortgage
payment of about £100 a month. I note S says they also had personal debts of about
£28,000 at the time but S hasnt supplied any further information. Having other debts doesnt
automatically mean that this loan was unaffordable for Mrs D and the late Mr S at the
relevant time. And, on the current evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that the lending was 
irresponsible at the outset.
Conclusions
As Ive explained above, its for the courts to decide if the time to bring any claim has expired
under the LA. Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think any claim that Mrs D and the
estate of Mr S might have against FHFL has probably exceeded the time limits set out in the
LA. I think its reasonable to take this into account. And, for the reasons set out, Im not
presently persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further comments or information (that I hadnt seen before) by 24 January 2023 and Id consider all 
the evidence available after that and make my final decision. 
FHFL has accepted my provisional findings and Mrs D and the estate of Mr S havent raised 
any objections or provided any new information. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from 
my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. For the reasons Ive explained above, I 
consider any claim that Mrs D and the estate of Mr S might have against FHFL has probably 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think its reasonable to take this into account. 
And Im not persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman