DRN-3042840
The complaint
Mr D has a self-invested person pension scheme (SIPP) with Redswan Limited. In 2013 he 
invested in his SIPP in a loan note arrangement with a company I will call MN. That 
investment has now failed. Mr Ds feels Redswan owes him a duty of care to help protect 
him from the risks of such investments.
What happened
Background to the complaint
Redswan
In 2013 Redswan was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate or wind up a pension 
scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.  It was not 
authorised to advise on investments.
The introducer
In 2013 Mr D had dealings with a man I will call Mr C.  Mr D says his boss and friend 
suggested the MN investment to him and introduced him to Mr C. And Mr C introduced him 
to MN and to Purplecircle.  
Mr C had been a UK authorised IFA but at the time of events in this complaint he had an 
unregulated business in the UK and later in the Isle of Mann.
Redswan says Mr C was not an introducer for it and that it never paid any commission to 
him.  Redswan says Mr C was an introducer for the MN investment and introduced it to that 
investment.
MN and Mr J 
MN was an Australian company run by a man I will call Mr J.  The company described itself 
as a private non-regulated venture/investment company.  It said it was a specialist in mid-
cap resources, energy and mining investments.
Redswan says at this time Mr J also ran a regulated fund in Australia and an OEIC investing 
in Australia available in the UK.
The investment was in the form of a loan note with a one-year fixed term.  It was referred to 
by NM as an Interest Bearing Loan Agreement.  Money was to be loaned and repaid in 
Australian dollars.  The minimum investment was £50,000.   The annual interest rate in Mr 
Ds case was 12%.  The loan could be rolled over or renewed for a further year when the 
term ended.  
Mr Ds investment
Mr D opened the SIPP in April 2013. Mr D transferred an existing personal pension to the 
SIPP and invested around £87,000 in the loan notes issued by MN.  The investment was 
made in May 2013 and each following year Mr D rolled over the investment. 
The collapse of MN
In June 2015 Mr J (and his wife, apparently jointly) committed suicide and it came to light 
that MN had been misleading investors about its financial position.  It seems likely Mr D has 
lost all the money he invested in MN.  
In 2015 a liquidator was appointed for MN.  In January 2016 the liquidator issued a report to 
creditors.  It included a number of points including the following (which I have anonymised 
here and in other extracts quoted below):  
2.1 Background
MN was promoted as a private, non-regulated, venture capital investment company 
incorporated and domiciled in  Australia.  Using loan proceeds of UK based 
creditors the Company claimed to invest in medium term Australian equity positions 
and provided fixed annual returns.
From registration Mr J was a director and secretary of the company.  Whilst a 
number of other officers were appointed throughout the Companys trading history, 
Mr J was the sole director since incorporation in 1981
The Companys primary investor base were individual loan creditors and SIPPs 
based prominently in the UK The company was not publicly marketed, rather new 
loan creditors were sought through word of mouth and referral from existing loan 
creditors.
The Companys investment focus was midcap resources, energy and mining 
services and would invest in short to medium term Australian equity positions.
The Company continued to trade until Mr Js death [in] June 2015
2.4.1 Loan Creditors
The company utilised an Investment Liaison Manager, Mr C [ie the Mr C I referred 
to above], based in the UK to liaise with the loan creditors and provide administrative 
support to the Company.  The Company would issue quarterly and annual trading 
reports to Mr C who would distribute same to the loan creditors.  Each quarterly 
report would disclose the total market value of assets under management by the 
Company and provide market commentary.  The annual report would provide an 
abridged balance sheet an income statement in addition to the content in the 
quarterly reports.  
Mr J would also make biannual visits to the UK to meet loan creditors and discuss 
the performance of the Company.
All parties I have corresponded with regarding the conduct of MN (including staff and 
contractors) advised that Mr and Mrs J were the only persons involved in the 
preparation and finalisation of the MN trading reports issued to Mr C  
2.5.1 Pre-Liquidation
I understand through an interview with Mr C that the Company was originally created 
as a vehicle for Mr Js private wealth investments.Mr L began to undertake taxation and accounting services for the Company in 2003.  
He was responsible for preparing the FY03 financial statements which I understand 
were the first prepared for the Company.
After being introduced to the Company Mr C and his wife became the first loan 
creditors to enter into an interest bearing loan agreement with the Company in July 
2004.
From this point the number of loan creditors grew and the Company Continued 
reporting strong financial performances and capital returns.   
Mr L sold his accounting practice,  and retired in 2007.  Mr J engaged the new 
owners to prepare the Companys FY08 financial statements. Due to personality 
clashes Mr J sought Mr Ls services for FY09 accounts which Mr L agreed to.  Mr L 
continued to act as MNs external accountant thereafter.
Mr L prepared the FY13 financial statements for the Company which are the last 
financial statements prepared for the Company.
It is clear that in comparing the results in the financial statements prepared by Mr L to 
the results presented in the FY13 creditor trading reports prepared by Mr J, there are 
large variances, with Mr Js reports overstating the assets and profits of the company 
loan to creditors
3.1 Profit and Loss Summary
The table below [which I have omitted] was prepared by Mr L based on his 
understanding of the Companys historical performance: 
This illustrates significant losses in all years [ie FY03 to FY13], which I consider 
would have deteriorated further in FY14 and FY15 as the interest expense increased.  
The results presented above show that while in most years the Company made a 
small trading profit, net losses were reported in all years due to significant 
commissions and interest expense attributable to the loans from creditors.  This 
indicates the MN never generated sufficient revenue in any trading year from FY03 to 
FY13 to service loan agreements.
4.2 Liquidators opinion as to the failure of the Company
Based on my preliminary investigation undertaken to date, it is my view that the 
failure of the Company was attributable to the following:
Poor performance of investments made by the Company;
The Company entered into loan agreements with repayment terms (including 
high fixed interest rates) which greatly exceed its trading revenue and 
accordingly the Companys ability to repay the same;
Falsified financial reports that did not represent an accurate financial position 
of the Company;
Fraudulent transactions entered into the Company (further details are outlined 
in section 7 of this report);
The death of the Companys sole director and secretary Mr J [in] June 2015.7.1.1 Falsified financial statements 
It appears the Company has been falsifying financial reports to loan creditors since 
2003 to misrepresent the trading performance and asset position to current and 
potential loan creditors.  A comparison of the financial statements provided by Mr L 
and trading reports provided by Mr J show significant differences.
A historical comparison of the two versions of accounts below [ie those prepared by 
Mr L and those prepared by the Company] illustrates that the financial performance 
and position of the company has been incorrectly reported from the outset of trading 
in 2003.
7.1.4 Other accusations
Mr C, Mr L [and others] have advised me that they believed that the business of 
the Company was effectively a Ponzi scheme paying returns to creditors from new 
capital paid to the Company by new or existing creditors.  Whilst I have not found 
conclusive evidence to support this statement my investigation to date indicate a 
strong likelihood of such activity.  In particular, the use of falsified financial 
statements and poor performance of the Company since commencement of 
operations supports the notion of a Ponzi scheme.
Further, during my interviews and discussions with the Companys personnel and 
representatives, the following anecdotal accusations of misconduct have been made:
Mr C claimed that during a visit to Australia in 2006 to conduct due diligence 
on the Company, Mr J arranged a meeting with a man purporting to be the 
Companys accountant, Mr L.  During Mr Cs visit to Australia in late 2015 he 
met Mr L and both men realised that they had not met each other previously 
and Mr J had allegedly engaged an imposter to act as Mr L in the earlier 2006 
meeting.
Mr C claims that the false financial statements issued to him by Mr J were 
produced on false letterheads with incorrect contact details for Mr L and 
incorrect financial figures.
It is claimed that the above conduct was an attempt by Mr J to keep Mr L separated 
from Mr C so that Mr C never knew the true financial position of the Company as 
understood by Mr L.
The complaint to Redswan
Mr D complained to Redswan. He thought that if it owed him a duty of care to highlight the 
risks and benefits of the fund invested in within the SIPP.    
Redswan did not uphold Mr Ds complaint.  It says it is not the SIPP operators responsibility 
to assess the suitability of an investment  this is for any appointed financial adviser.  It says 
it did however require Mr D to confirm he understood the risks in 2013, 2014 and 2015.  It 
thinks it acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
The complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was considered by 
one of our investigators. In his view:
Redswan was under an obligation to carry out due diligence.The investment was made on a direct basis so there was no checking 
needed in relation to any adviser.
Redswan did not carry out due diligence checks on the investment in 2007 when 
it first made investment  into MN (after SIPP had become regulated). However this 
did not cause Mr Ds loss because the investment would still have been made if 
reasonable checks had been made.
Although Redswan did start to revise the warnings it required investors to sign 
when renewing their MN investments in 2014 this was not linked to the fraud which 
came to light soon after.
Mr D did not agree with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
Redswan also did not agree with the investigator. Its points include:
It is not fair and reasonable to use the specifics of later guidance to criticise 
earlier practices. The issue must be whether Redswans approach to due 
diligence at the time of Mr Ds investment in MN was reasonable and in 
compliance with the Principles. In Redswans view it was.
At the time of Mr Ds initial investment Redswan knew the investment had 
existed for a number of years and those investors who wanted it had been repaid. 
Loan notes are not unusual investments for a SIPP.
MN provided a signed agreement demonstrating good title and proof of the debt.
Taken together the information held on MN constituted due diligence.
It is not reasonable to expect it to take the additional steps Mr D has suggested.
The FCA did consider and approve its MN file in 2014. It looked only at that file. 
It did not find any failings. It only made recommendations for further improvements.
The FCAs approval is strong evidence that it was acting in accordance 
with its regulators expectations.
Redswan agrees with the adjudicator that even if it had performed further due 
diligence it would not have revealed anything that would have prevented Mr D 
from investing. Further due diligence would only have confirmed:
oThe company did exist.
oThe company and the director had a long trading history.
oThere was an appointed accountant.
oThe return was reasonable given the risks of the investment.
oThe business activities proposed by MN were not unusual.
oThere was no information in that might have indicated that Mr J was 
committing fraud or misrepresenting the companys true financial position.
Mr J admitted in his suicide note that he had falsely represented the position of 
the company and that only he and his wife were aware of the true financial 
position. The true position is not something Redswan would have been able to 
uncover with a reasonable level of due diligence.
So any failure by Redswan (and it does not agree that there has been any) did 
not cause Mr Ds loss  that was caused by Mr Js sophisticated long running 
and carefully concealed fraud.my provisional decision
The complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision.  I first explained the 
basis on which I would consider what was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complain and the relevant considerations I am required to take into account.  I explained why 
I considered the Principles for Business and various publications issued by the regulator to 
be relevant.  I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and how Redswan 
should put things right.
responses to the provisional decision
Mr D agreed with the provisional decision.  
Redswan did not agree with the provisional decision.  In summary its points include:
The provisional conclusion is not fair and reasonable and is open to challenge by 
way of judicial review on the grounds of irrationality.
The MN investment is not anomalous or suspicious. The analysis in the provisional 
decision is flawed as it proceeds from this erroneous starting point.
Loans to private companies are common place in SIPPs.  Redswans due diligence 
should be considered in that context.
The views in the provisional decision are entirely driven by hindsight.
Redswan undertook reasonable due diligence on the MN investment and complied 
with any duties owed under the regulators rules including complying with the 
Principles.  
None of that due diligence could reasonably have raised any suspicions.  Nor could 
any publicly available information about MNs or its owner Mr J. 
Redswans due diligence appeared entirely to support the legitimacy of the 
investment.
The FCA reviewed Redswans due diligence on MN and found it was satisfactory.  It 
is irrational for the ombudsman to disregard the FCAs findings and come to a 
contradictory view based purely upon generic regulatory guidance.
The suggestion that a SIPP operators duty extends to instructing local accountants 
and lawyers to investigate every proposed investment is unrealistic.  Such a duty 
would be absurdly onerous and fly in the face of commercial reality.
Even if Redswan had acted differently there is no evidence the fraud would have 
been discovered.  It is more likely that Mr J would have fabricated whatever evidence 
was needed to satisfy local agents.  
In the absence of evidence that further due diligence would have uncovered the fraud 
or otherwise prevented the investment, the conclusions in the provisional decision 
are irrational and not fair and reasonable.The issue should be addressed on the balance of probabilities and on that basis the 
conclusion should be that Redswan did not cause the loss.
Redswan took reasonable steps to draw the risks of the investment to Mr Ds 
attention.  He chose to proceed in any event.  Even if Redswan had taken further 
steps or issued further warnings the investment would have gone ahead in any 
event. The decision to invest was not based on any due diligence or lack of due 
diligence by Redswan.  
The provisional decision does not refer to the risk awareness statement it introduced 
in 2013.  The statement first flagged that the investment was heavily geared and later 
specified the precise borrowing ratio of MN.  Mr D continued to roll over his 
investment despite these warnings.  The provisional decision fails to give any weight 
to these warnings.  It is not fair to ignore Redswans efforts to bring risks to Mr Ds 
attention.
The circumstances of this case are very different to the Berkeley Burke SIPP 
Administration v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878 (Admin) case.  In 
that complaint the SIPP operator carried out no checks.  Had it done so problems 
would quickly have been discovered.  Redswan did make checks and the problems 
were carefully concealed and could not reasonably have been discovered.  
Also, there was no challenge in the Berkeley Burke case on the grounds of 
irrationality  a point remarked upon by the judge.  In this complaint a final decision in 
line with the provisional decision would be irrational.  And the outcome of the 
challenge would be different to the Berkeley Burke decision. 
Further submissions by Redswan following the judgment of the High Court in Adams 
v Options SIPP:
The courts decision in Adams v Options SIPP (formerly known as Carey) [2020] 
EWHC 1229 (Ch) is highly relevant and supportive of Redswans position.
The judge said the contract had a significant role to play in establishing the duties the 
firm owed to the customer.
The judge noted that Careys application form made it clear Carey had not provided 
advice in relation to the SIPP, and that Mr Adams understood the role the firm would 
be performing  Carey was simply providing a mechanism for the transfer of pension 
funds and subsequent investment of those funds.  It was not advising on either the 
SIPP or the underlying funds.  It was solely acting on the basis of Mr Adams 
instructions given as a result of an investment decision made by Mr Adams. 
The judge concluded that the provisions in the contractual documents did not confer 
a positive obligation on Carey to choose particular investments or refuse to 
implement investment instructions because it was of the view that the member had 
made an unsuitable choice.
The FCA intervened in the case. The judge rejected its submissions.  He held that 
the key factor in determining the scope of the SIPP operators obligations is the 
contract between the parties.
The contractual position in this complaint is very similar to the position of Mr Adams 
and Carey. Redswan made it absolutely clear, and Mr D must have understood, that Redswan was not providing advice on the investments proposed for his SIPP and the 
choice of investment was entirely his responsibility.
The documentation shows Redswan made it clear to Mr D from the outset, and she 
accepted, that investment decisions were entirely for him with the assistance of any 
appointed financial adviser.  It cannot be fair, reasonable or rational in light of this 
and the judges analysis and comments in Adams v Options SIPP, to find that 
Redswan could only have complied with its duties under the COBS rules by:
orefusing to accept the MN investment, or
oundertaking extensive due diligence into the investment including appointing 
local agents and uncovering Mr Js fraud.
At its heart this complaint concerns the same inconsistency identified in Adams v 
Options SIPP between the contract Mr D entered into and the duties he now 
suggests Redswan owed to him.  In line with the courts analysis, the ombudsman 
must conclude that the extent of the duties must be construed by reference to the 
contract and there can be no suggestion that Redswan is liable on the basis of any 
perceived failings of due diligence in relation to an investment decision that was 
entirely Mr Ds responsibility.  
The court accepted in Adams v Options SIPP that a SIPP operator can properly 
perform a limited role where the scope of the role has been made clear in the 
contractual documentation.  In such circumstances there is no obligation upon the 
firm to undertake due diligence on an investment proposed by the SIPP member for 
inclusion in the SIPP.
Redswan was clear about the role it was performing, that it was the members sole 
decision as to whether or not to invest, and that Redswan could not be held 
responsible for the members investment decision. So, the ombudsman should follow 
the courts conclusion that the SIPP operator is not obliged to go further than 
required by the contractual documents.  The conclusion in the provisional decision is 
entirely at odds with the analysis in Adams v Options SIPP.
In Adams v Options SIPP the judge said: 
oThe FCA has the power under s.139A FSMA to give guidance consisting of such 
information and advice as it considers appropriate concerning the operation of parts 
of FSMA or rules made by the FCA among other things. There is no express 
provision in FSMA which provides a right to an investor to make a claim based on an 
alleged breach of the guidance issued by the FCA from time to time. This is in direct 
contrast to the specific right contained in section 138D(2) to seek damages for breach 
of rules made by the FCA, such as the COBS Rules. The Thematic Review cannot 
properly be described as a set of rules or even guidance and in my judgment cannot 
give rise to a claim for failing to follow the suggestions which it makes. Nor in my 
judgment is it a proper aid to statutory construction of the COBS Rules which must be 
construed in accordance with the usual principles of construction.
In light of the judges analysis, it is clear that too much weight was placed on the 
various regulatory publications in the provisional decision.  An unfair and 
unreasonable approach was taken in placing reliance upon publications that post-
date the events in question.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge appeared (at paragraph 23) to place reliance 
upon the fact that the regulator had visited Carey to look at its processes in relation to unregulated introducers. By analogy, in this case the ombudsman should place 
greater weight on the fact that the regulator visited Redswan and specifically 
reviewed its due diligence in relation to the M investment and found it to be 
satisfactory.
As Redswan has previous argued, its unfair, unreasonable and irrational for the 
ombudsman to disregard the regulators findings in relation to specific due diligence 
and reach a contradictory view based on generic industry wide regulator publications.
Adams v Options SIPP makes it clear that the contemporaneous views of the 
regulator on the specific activities undertaken by the relevant SIPP operator are a 
highly relevant consideration in assessing whether the firm complied with its duties.
The ombudsman is required to take into account relevant law and regulations in 
coming to a decision on a complaint.  If the ombudsman chooses to depart from the 
law in determining what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, he must give 
his reasons why.
If the ombudsman proposes to depart from the principles set out in Adams v Options 
SIPP, he is obliged to provide an explanation for the basis on which he is doing so.
The fairness, reasonableness and rationality of any departure from the principles set 
out in Adams v Options SIPP may need to be considered by the court in judicial 
review proceedings in due course.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 
3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systemsPrinciple 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific 
rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but 
specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision the 
Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment in the High Court.  The Court of Appeal also did not 
consider to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these 
judgments provide any assistance with the application of the Principles for Businesses, and 
in particular, they say nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.  
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this rule 
was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP 
owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable 
pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and 
found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams 
case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal was 
an attempt to put forward an entirely new case rather a challenge to the grounds on which 
HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim. 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mr Ds case.   
I note there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Ds complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Ds case, including Redswans role in the transaction.  
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I have 
considered them in their entirety). 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, 
taken from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we 
have made to firms:[]
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.

The 2012 Thematic Review Report
The 2012 report included the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states a a firm must conduct its business 
with dues skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence on the investments held by members or the introducers who use their 
schemes, to identify potential risks to their members or to the firm itself.  In some 
firms this was made worse by over-reliance on third parties to conduct due diligence 
on behalf of the operator.  In some cases this resulted in taxable investments being 
inadvertently held, and monies in potentially fraudulent investments. 
The 2013 finalised guidance
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved 
persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear 
disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify 
the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments 
they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that 
they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may 
be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example 
from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, 
as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, 
is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder 
money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such 
as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting 
business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of 
the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing 
the processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks 
to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept 
investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm
The 2014 Dear CEO letter
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets 
is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point 
of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I dont think the fact that some of the 
publications post-date the original investment in this case means the examples of good 
industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time of the events. Although 
some were published after the original investment in 2013 (although not all after dates 
when the investment was rolled over), but the Principles that underpin them existed 
throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non- 
exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider the 
regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Redswan complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr D), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Redswan 
could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
The relationship between Mr D and Redswan
Redswan says that, consistent with the decision in Adams v Options, the regulatory 
obligations must be read in the light of the contract between the customer and the SIPP 
provider.
Redswan says Mr D signed an application form on that included:
I have been provided with a copy of the Plans Key Features & Introductory Guide.  I 
have been given the opportunity to ask questions if there is anything I do not 
understand.
And
I hereby acknowledge that I have neither sought nor received any advice from 
Redswan as to the suitability of the Plan to my personal circumstances.  I also 
understand that such together with all investment / other decisions, rest either with 
myself and / or (where appointed) my financial adviser and any separate agreement I 
have with them governs the services they provide in respect of my member ship of 
the Plan.
Redswan also says the Key Features & Introductory Guide included:
Different investments have different levels of risk associated with them.  You, 
together with your financial adviser (if any), are responsible for ensuring they meet 
your and your beneficiaries requirements.
I accept that Redswan made clear to Mr D that it was not giving him financial advice. Their 
relationship was non-advisory or execution only as in the Adams v Options case
There is no suggestion or evidence that Redswan advised Mr D in relation to the MN investment.
However, I dont think the point that Redswan had a limited role as an execution only SIPP 
provider absolved Redswan of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when 
deciding whether to allow investment into the MN loan notes.  I do not say that Redswan 
had an obligation to advise Mr D or to consider the suitability of the investment for Mr D.  It 
was however required, in its role as an execution only SIPP provider, to consider whether it 
was an appropriate investment to make within its SIPP.
In my provisional decision I said:
Overall in the circumstances of this complaint, I think Redswans duty as a SIPP 
operator was to treat Mr D fairly and to act in his best interests and its duties included 
taking reasonable steps to at least:
ensure that it understood how the investment would operate;
ensure that it did not accept into a SIPP an investment that is likely to give rise to 
tax liabilities within the scheme (such as unauthorised payments);
ensure that a proposed underlying investment for a SIPP is a genuine asset and 
is not part of a fraud or a scam or pensions liberation
When I said that I was referring to Redswan as an execution only SIPP operator and it 
remains my view that it was under those obligations in that limited capacity.
I note that Redswan has said: 
back in 2007 we consider that checking the status of the investment and, correctly 
confirming that it was an investment that was allowed by HMRC rules complied with 
our obligations under the Principles at the time.
In any event, however, in checking to see whether the investment was permitted by 
HMRCs rules we reviewed the investment prospectus and so familiarised ourselves 
with the features of the investment.  We therefore allowed ourselves an opportunity 
to understand the nature of the investment and to identify any obviously inaccurate or 
concerning information.
This indicates that Redswan  in broad terms  considers that it did carry out checks that 
were in line with the steps I have referred to above. 
what due diligence checks did Redswan carry out on MN?
In my provisional decision I said:
One of our investigators asked Redswan:
What due diligence did you carry out on MN (and the loan, for example the 
purpose) when [the consumer] requested the investment?  For example, did 
you carry out any checks on the directors (such as whether they had criminal 
records), did you ask what the loan would be used for?
Redswan replied as follows:At the time [the consumer] made his investment, our obligation as SIPP 
operator was simply to ensure that the investment choice did not contravene 
HMRC rules, which as a loan note it did not.
In any event, we note there is no comparable entity in Australia to the UKs 
Companies House and there were therefore no publicly accessible accounts 
we could obtain in relation to MN.
Mr J, sole director of MN, was executive chairman and founder of [name 
asset management company given] and a search of the internet revealed he 
was a well-respected, regulated investment professional.  Further, [that 
company] operated a UK regulated OEIC, [name given].  No publicly available 
information on Mr J could reasonably have raised any suspicions regarding 
either his competence and honesty or the legitimacy of the investment.  In 
addition, and Australian Tax Office ruling was obtained in 2007 for an 
exemption from Australian withholding tax on the MN return.  The fact that 
Mr J was apparently open with the tax authorities regarding MNs trading 
activities further reinforced the impression there was nothing untoward about 
Mr J or MN.
Regarding the purpose of the loan, I refer you to clause 3 of [the consumers] 
signed loan agreement.  The funds provided were to be used primarily in the 
acquisition of shares/equities solely in the Australian financial markets, as 
deemed suitable by MN.
We note that the FCA has considered and approved our file on the MN 
investment.  We had a thematic review visit in 2014, as did other SIPP 
operators.  As part of the review the FCA reviewed our MN files and 
concluded as follows:
Due Diligence on investments
You advised us that the firm had not taken on any new non-standard 
investments other than continuing investments in a single investment: 
A private Australian company issuing Loan Notes.
Our assessment of the due diligence on this investment did not find 
serious failings although it was agreed you will consider retaining 
original signed copies of contract notes in the future, so that the 
scheme can produce these if needed.
We also emphasise that, even if there had been an obligation on this firm to 
undertake due diligence on the investment in 2007 and even had the firm 
undertaken such due diligence, we would have found nothing to suggest that 
the investment was unsuitable to be held in a SIPP or any suggestion that 
anything untoward was taking place.  It now appears that the sole director of 
MN, Mr J, perpetrated a long running and carefully concealed fraud.  In a 
letter written 15 June to the relevant authorities Mr J explained:
only myself and my wife have known the actual financial position of 
the company.  I have falsely represented the position to all my 
consultants, associates and investorsI alone have produced all of the quarterly reports, annual accounts 
etc to a large extent falsely promoting the companys financial 
position.
The documents produced by Mr J and provided to this firm and to investors 
were professional and convincing.  They provided no clue that anything 
untoward was occurring in relation to MN.  No amount of due diligence 
undertaken by the firm would have uncovered the fraud that Mr J was 
apparently carrying out.  If there has been a failure on the part of this firm to 
comply with its obligations in relation to due diligence, which  is not 
accepted, this has not caused Mr Ds loss in any event.  Had due diligence 
been carried out it would have revealed any concerns regarding MN and 
Mr Ds investment would have proceeded in any event.
As explained above I disagree with Redswan about whether or not it should have 
carried out due diligence checks on the investment.  The issues are therefore:
Were the checks made by Redswan reasonable in the circumstance? Before that 
there is a preliminary point about whether I [am] bound by or otherwise obliged to 
come to the same conclusion on this point as the FCA?  If I am not, and I think the 
checks were [not] reasonable in the circumstances, I need to consider whether 
reasonable checks would reasonably have led to a different outcome and if so what 
outcome.
When responding to my provisional decision Redswan has referred to some additional 
checks in made from 2010 which I mention below.
am I bound by the FCAs conclusion about Redswans due diligence?
In my provisional decision I said:
I set out above the things I am required to take into account in deciding what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.  One of those things is guidance issued by 
the regulator.  I do not consider the view of the FCA supervisor who inspected 
Redswans due diligence to be guidance I am required to take into account.  But 
even if it is I am only required to take relevant guidance into account I am not bound 
by it.
I am required to form my own view on all the matters relevant to my determination of 
this complaint.  I can, and do, take into account the view expressed by the FCA but I 
am not bound by it or otherwise bound to reach the same conclusion.
Redswan says its irrational for me to disregard the FCAs findings and come to a 
contradictory view based purely upon generic regulatory guidance.
To be clear, I do not disregard what Redswan has told me about the visit and report.  I have 
taken it into account.  I have however formed my own view as I am bound to do.  I am 
considering the circumstances including nature of the relationship between the parties, and 
all of the evidence and arguments in order to decide what is fair and reasonable taking in to 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
was the due diligence carried out by Redswan reasonable in the circumstances?In my provisional decision I said 
I have considered the sort of points suggested by [the] FCA as an appropriate 
approach.
how was the investment to operate?
The investment was a one year fixed term fixed rate loan to an unregulated and 
unregistered Australian Company.  The contractual interest rate (in [2013] when Mr D 
first invested) was 12%.  The money loaned was to be used primarily in the 
acquisition of share/equities solely in the Australian financial markets, as deemed 
suitable by the Company.
At the time the Bank of England base rate was 0.5%.
In my view these basic facts give raise to some initial thoughts:
there is a contractually fixed return
but the money is to be invested in an asset class that does not provide 
guaranteed returns.
the investment has a short term of only one year with guaranteed repayment 
at the end of a year
but the money is to be invested in an asset class that has no guarantee that it 
will not have lost value at the end of only one year.
the return was high 
and suggests the need to invest in higher risk investments, investments that 
might well have higher volatility and perhaps short term liquidity issues. 
So how is MN to pay the contractual return and repay the money loaned if required at 
the end of the one year term (rather than rolled over)?  The answer is from 
unguaranteed investment performance.  That means MN is bearing the risks of those 
returns not being sufficient.  
And that brings into focus the nature of the investment.  It is an unsecured loan to 
MN - an unlisted unregulated Australian company.  
is this a permitted type of investment for a SIPP?
A SIPP is a very flexible form of pension arrangement.  HMRC makes rules about 
what sort of investments are permitted.  There is no problem in principle with this 
type of investment being held in a SIPP.
did the proposed investment seem genuine, or was it part of a fraud or a 
scam?
In my view this was an anomalous investment for a UK investor.  It may have been a 
permitted type but that does not mean it was not anomalous.  It deviated from usual 
or normal investments in a number of respects:
the investors were based in the UK but the investment was with an Australian 
Company.
the investment and the return were not in Sterling.
the counterparty, MN, was an unlisted and unregulated company.The investment involved a guaranteed return (in Australian dollars) while the 
disclosed underlying investment purpose involved an asset class that gives a 
variable unguaranteed return.
It is now known that Mr J was not managing MN honestly.  And there is some 
indication that the dishonesty had started before the investment in the loan notes in 
2007 for the other consumers whose complaints I have reviewed.
It is however important to think about how things seemed in 2007 on the basis of 
what was known and reasonably discoverable then not on the basis what is known 
only in hindsight.
In my view it is right that a due diligence process uses a critical eye.  It is not about 
hoping for the best.  It is about thinking around an issue and looking to see if there 
are things that should give cause for concern.  
I have outlined the nature of the investment above.  In my view the structure of the 
investment does have some of the features of a Ponzi investment fraud.  That 
doesnt mean it obviously was a Ponzi scheme. But there [are] points that make one 
wonder such as:
the offering of a fixed rate of return is typical of a Ponzi scheme.
so too is the offering of a consistent return as market investment returns 
typically go up and down over time.
Ponzi schemes are also typically not registered or regulated funds and often 
involve unregulated sellers.  
There are other points that make one wonder:
In this case there was an unregulated fund  when Mr J apparently also 
managed a regulated fund that was available to UK investors and which also 
invested in Australia. So why was Mr J offering an unregulated fund to UK 
investors that involved risk for the operator (MN) rather than a straightforward 
equity fund without investment risk to the fund operator?
And why was he doing that if his fund had 15 million Australian dollars in 
undistributed profit reserves?  Why was he putting those reserves at risk?
And did he even have those reserves?  Was MN good for the guarantee it 
was giving?  Or was it only going to be able to repay leaving investors from 
the money it got in from new investors like a Ponzi fraud?
This is not a question that would only occur to someone who is unduly suspicious.  It 
is a fairly basic point that a guarantee is only as good as the person or company 
giving it.  So the basic question arises does the MN have the financial strength to 
give the guarantee it was giving  is it credit worthy?  If it is not it might be that it was 
being unwise in giving a guarantee.  Or it might be that it was deliberately trying to 
mislead.  In either event the investment is unsafe and how would someone know 
without checking? 
In my view there was enough here for a SIPP operator to have concerns that it would 
reasonably want to satisfy itself about in 2007 or if they had been carrying out such 
checks for the first time in 2013 when Mr D first invested.Further it is clear from comments such as the following (that I have quoted above) 
that important points should be independently checked.  
Findings from our review included firms failing to: 
 to independently verify that assets were real and secure, or that 
investment schemes operated as claimed 
We found that, typically, firms had difficulty completing due diligence for non-
standard overseas investment schemes where firms did not have access to 
local qualified legal professionals or accountants.
In my view it was not and is not a reasonable answer to the above to say that there 
were no publicly accessible accounts for MN because there was no equivalent to 
Companies House.  
In my view Redswan should reasonably have done one of two things:
Obtained independent verification of the financial position of MN; or
Decide that was not feasible for it [to do so] and decide that as it could not 
satisfy itself about MNs financial position it would not allow the loan note 
investments in its SIPPs.
Redswan does not agree with much of the above.  It says the investment is not anomalous 
or suspicious and that it did undertake reasonable due diligence and complied with the 
duties under the regulators rules including the Principles.  It says:
It reviewed the MN prospectus before allowing the investment to proceed.
A search relating to Mr J the sole director of MN revealed he was a well-respected 
regulated investment professional.
It established that Mr J was also the executive chairman and founder of an asset 
management company and it operated a UK regulated OIEC.
It established that the Australian Tax Office ruling was obtained in 2007 for an 
exemption from Australian withholding tax on the MN return.  The point that Mr J was 
apparently open with the tax authorities regarding MNs trading activities reinforced 
the impression that there was nothing untoward about Mr J or MN.
From 2012/13 onwards Redswan obtained copies of all MN accounts including those 
from previous years.  From 2010 onwards Redswan also obtained copies of MNs 
quarterly investment reports.  The position presented by these documents was 
consistent with the position as presented by Mr J to investors and there was nothing 
in the documents to raise suspicions or concerns.
From 2010 onwards Redswan also started to attend annual investor meetings held 
by Mr J with UK investors.  The fact Mr J organized the meetings and was open to 
speaking directly with investors supported the legitimacy of the investments.
From 2014 onwards, in light of published guidance from the FCA, Redswan obtained 
information about certain of MNs assets.  This did not raise any concerns.  In some 
cases Redswan obtained information from publicly available sources demonstrating 
that MN was a major shareholder in certain companies.  In other cases Redswan 
was provided with information from Mr J which appeared convincing at the time but 
ultimately transpired to be fabricated.  There was however nothing in this information 
at the time that caused concern.
Ultimately no publicly available information on Mr J could reasonably have raised any 
suspicions regarding either his competence and honesty or the legitimacy of the 
investment.  MN appeared to be a legitimate investment that had been trading 
successfully for years and run by a respected and regulated individual.The checks and approach were consistent with the Principles.
I note all these points but in my view it is clear that execution only SIPP providers should be 
alert to the possibility of fraudulent investments.  By their nature fraudulent or scam 
investments are not labelled as such.  The fact that an investment seems to have a 
successful record does not rule out the possibility that the investment is a fraud  the 
fraudster needs the appearance of success to draw in investors.  And the fact an investment 
is managed by a regulated individual does not rule out the possibility of a fraud.  
The level of checks called for will vary from case to case.  In this case as MN has said Mr J 
was the only director of an unregulated investment about which there was no publicly 
available information.
  
It is clear Redswan did not independently assess the investment in 2007 when it permitted 
some other investors to invest in MN.  Nor did it do so in 2013 when it permitted Mr D to do 
the same.  In 2007 in relation to MN it relied on the information provided by those connected 
to it.  It made some checks on Mr J but none on MN. It did not check its accounts.  It did not 
seek any form of independent verification of the accounts or the financial position of MN. Nor 
did it do so in 2013 before Mr D invested. 
Redswan says it could not obtain independent verification of information from a Companies 
House type public register because there isnt one in Australia.  
And Redswan says it is not realistic for it to instruct local lawyers and/or accountants in 
Australia to check on MN.  It says such a requirement is absurdly onerous and flies in the 
face or commercial reality. 
I accept that loan notes as an investment type may not be unusual for a SIPP but that is not 
the complete point.  Redswan should have ensured that it understood how the investment 
would operate.  And in my view for the reasons set in my provisional decision there was 
reason to have concerns about the investment and it should have:  
Obtained independent verification of the financial position of MN; or
Decided that was not feasible for it to do so and decide that as it could not satisfy 
itself about MNs financial position it would not allow the loan note investments in its 
SIPPs.
Redswan says it is not realistic for it to instruct local lawyers and/or accountants in Australia 
to check on MN.  But a SIPP operator is required to treat its customers fairly  even within 
the context of a non-advised service - and it must act in accordance with its customers best 
interests in a way that is consistent with its obligations as the operator of an execution only 
SIPP.  Bearing that in mind it is responsible for the quality of its SIPP business.  That is both 
the regulatory and commercial context in which it operates.  That means it should carry out 
appropriate due diligence before it allows an investment  checks that are fit for purpose.  
And if it is not economically viable to carry out the checks it should not allow the investment.  
That is the way to reasonably act in its clients best interests and also in its own interests 
within the context of the execution only service.
I should make it clear that the comment about locally qualified lawyers and accountants was 
not a point made up by me off the cuff years after the event and with the benefit of hindsight.  
The comments were the considered published view of the regulator about how SIPP 
operators should satisfy obligations in existence since 2007.  The point may not have been 
made expressly until the 2014 CEO letter but the letter is commenting on how the existing 
obligations on SIPP operators were to be satisfied.  I do not consider the point about the need for information to be independently verified to be a 
new or novel requirement.  It is an obvious point when the purpose of due diligence is kept in 
mind.  And the comment about locally qualified lawyers and accountants is just a particular 
illustration of the basic point that effective due diligence should be carried out  which 
amongst other things means sufficiently independent and expert to be reasonably reliable.  
And in this case the nature of the investment and the factors I referred to in my provisional 
decision mean that there was a reasonable need for that level of due diligence.   And that 
this should have been apparent to Redswan in 2007 and not just with the benefit of 
hindsight. 
For the avoidance of doubt I do not say now, and did not say in my provisional decision that 
the only course open to Redswan was to appoint lawyers and accountants in Australia.  I 
said in my provisional decision, and I say now, that if that does not make business sense 
then Redswan should instead have decided not to allow the investment into its SIPP 
wrappers. To choose the course of not making reasonable due diligence checks and to 
accept the investment in its SIPPs is not fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
what would have happened if Redswan had independently verified MNs financial 
position?
In my provisional decision I said:
According to [the] liquidators report I have quoted above:
Mr J had been misreporting the financial position of MN from 2003 ie for three to 
four years before Mr Ds application to invest in 2007 and way before Mr D 
invested in 2013.  
When Mr C went to Australia in 2006 to make his checks he was deceived by 
Mr J who arranged for an imposter to impersonate the accountant used by MN. 
It does therefore seem that by 2007 (when the other consumers invested) Mr Js fraud 
had started.  There was therefore something to be discovered  it is not apparently the 
case that all was in order in 2007 and the fraud only began much later and closer to the 
time of its eventual discovery.
According to the liquidators report:
7.1.1 Falsified financial statements:
It appears the Company has been falsifying financial reports to loan creditors 
since 2003 to misrepresent the trading performance and asset position to current 
and potential loan creditors.  A comparison of the financial statement provided by 
[Mr L] and trading reports provided by [Mr J] show significant differences
A historical comparison of the two versions of accounts below illustrates that the 
financial performance and position of the Company has been incorrectly reported 
from the outset of trading in 2003.
Historical profit/Loss Comparison FY03 to FY13 [I will only quote FY03-FY06]
$ Financial statement 
(prepared by 
Mr [L])Financial statement 
(prepared by the 
Company)Variance
FY03 Profit/(Loss) (72,018) 2,419,000 (2,491,018)FY04 Profit/(Loss) (105,494) 735,000 (840,494)
FY05 Profit/(Loss) (1,055.673) 1,230,000 (2,285,673)
FY06 Profit/(Loss) (1,600,434) 1,013,000 (2,613,434)
Balance Sheet Comparison [I will only quote FY03-FY06]
$ Financial statement 
(prepared by 
[Mr L])Financial statement 
(prepared by the 
Company)Variance
FY03 Profit/(Loss) (72,016) 8,791,000 (8,863,016)
FY04 Profit/(Loss) (177,510) 11,302,000 (11,479,510)
FY05 Profit/(Loss) (1,233,182) 14,253,000 (15,486,182)
FY06 Profit/(Loss) (2,833,616) 15,016,000 (17,849,616)
It is possible that in this case in 2007, Mr J would either have refused to co-operate in 
any checks made by Redswan or would have made similar attempts to deceive as in 
2006 with Mr C.  But it should be borne in mind that Redswan ought to have used local 
legal professionals or accountants to act on its behalf.  Such agents would have been 
appropriately sceptical and diligent and would not just accept things at face value.  
If Mr J had refused to co-operate that would or should have sounded alarm bells for 
Redswan and it would have refused to allow the investment in the loan notes.
The alternative is, in my view, Redswan would have discovered that there was cause 
[for] concern about Mr J and MN. In my view reasonable independent verification would 
have led to the discovery that MN was providing figures to investors and potential 
investors that varied considerably from the figures prepared by its accountants. In this 
event it would not have allowed the investment in the SIPP in the loan notes issued by 
MN.
My view remains as set out above.  
so would reasonable checks have made any difference?
In my provisional decision I said:
In the reports I have quoted above the FCA said it found widespread misunderstanding 
amongst SIPP operators of the obligations they were under.  In my view Redswan did 
misunderstand the obligations it was under in 2007and 2013.  If it had understood those 
obligations it would have:
1. Decided it was not prepared to make the kind of checks that were reasonably 
required given that the investment was with an unlisted and unregulated 
company overseas making the checking process more difficult.
2. Or it would have made reasonable steps to independently verify MNs financial 
position and 
oMN would have expressly refused to cooperate, 
oor MN would have been uncooperative and obstructive such that 
Redswan would have realised its enquiries were being frustrated and it 
would have drawn an unfavourable conclusion from that
oor serious concerns (other than non-cooperation) would have been 
discovered.In all of these events Redswan would have decided not to allow the investment in the 
Loan Note in the SIPP in 2007.  And it would still have been of that view in 2013.
Redswan has been clear that it thinks it was not economically viable to use local agents in 
Australia to make checks on MN.  This therefore means that the first of the two options 
above is the more likely and that Redswan would not have allowed the invested in MN for 
that reason. 
In relation to the second point, Redswan says that Mr J would have done whatever was 
necessary to conceal his fraud and would have successfully done so. It says the fraud was 
elaborate and sophisticated. And, it says that instructing a local professional to carry out 
independent due diligence checks on MN would not have brought the fraud to light.
I have carefully considered the submissions that Redswan has made on this point. However, 
I think this is an unlikely scenario. Credible independent local professionals would have been 
appropriately trained and would have approached the issue with no pre-conceived ideas. 
Redswan says that Mr C was successfully duped by Mr Js fraud and that this suggests
Mr J would have been able to also trick other professionals who were looking into the MN 
investment. However, Mr C was already an investor with MN when he visited Australia in 
2006 and may well have been thinking of a potentially profitable business relationship with it 
when he made that visit to Australia.  He was no longer truly independent. In my view, there 
is a significant possibility that he would have been susceptible to confirmation bias. By 
contrast, the only interest a credible local independent agent would have had was to carry 
out a thorough and professional job of undertaking appropriate due diligence checks. 
 
I accept that there is evidence that the fraud was successfully concealed for some years.  
But that does not, in my view, lead to the forgone conclusion that Mr J would have satisfied 
independent professional agents in 2007 (when Redswan first started to allow investments 
into MN in its SIPPs after establishing and operating SIPPs became regulated) or 2013 
(when Mr D invested) that the investment was not a fraud. And, I note that here is no 
evidence that independent professionals were actually deceived by Mr J at that time.  
Mr Cs own due diligence checking went so far as trying to meet MNs accountant, 
Mr L.  I do not know if Mr C asked for that meeting or if it was Mr Js idea.  In any event 
apparently in 2006 an imposter was used to impersonate Mr L. It seems unlikely locally 
qualified lawyers and/or accountants would have been so easily deceived.  They might have 
known Mr L professionally as part of the Western Australia business community.  They could 
easily have made direct contact with him to discuss the accounts and to ask for his 
cooperation in the due diligence checks it was making  and I consider that likely. If they had 
contacted Mr L it seems likely to me that the fraud would have been discovered  hence the 
use of the imposter to stop Mr C from talking to Mr L. 
It is my view that the use of the imposter by Mr J was daring and does show the lengths he 
was willing to go to.  But that was in his dealings with Mr C.  That he was prepared to go to 
that length also shows Mr Js vulnerability to discovery.  It is difficult to know if Mr J would 
have been so daring if the due diligence was being carried out by appropriate local 
professionals. Mr J might well have thought it was too risky and not co-operated in the due 
diligence process.  
It is my view that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that adverse 
conclusions would have been drawn had appropriate local professional agents been used to 
carry out appropriate due diligence on MN and Mr J in 2007.  And as a result, Redswan 
would not have accepted the MN loan note investment into its SIPP wrappers. I am satisfied that had Redswan taken steps to independently assess MN, the financial position of the 
company would have been identified. 
what would have happened if Redswan had acted appropriately?
In my provisional decision I said:
It is my view that if Redswan had understood its obligations it would have decided in 
2007 not to allow investments into the MN loan notes from that time. If that had 
been the case things would have turned out differently for Mr D. His friend would 
not have suggested he invest in MN and he would not have transferred his [existing 
pension] to Redswan in order to make that investment.
Alternatively if for any reason Redswan had not yet made the decision not to 
invest in the MN loan notes by 2013 it would have reached that view when Mr D 
was considering investing in them in 2013.
In either event it is my present view that if Redswan had carried out appropriate 
checks Mr D would not have invested in the loan notes. It is also my present view 
that he only switched his pension  to Redswan to make that investment and so 
without the investment he would not have stayed with [his existing pension 
provider]. And Mr D would not have suffered the trouble and upset he has no doubt 
suffered in seeing his pension fund in effect lose all its value overnight. This would 
have been very worrying and upsetting.
Redswan says Mr Ds decision to invest was driven not by any due diligence or lack of due 
diligence by Redswan but by advice Mr D received from Mr C.  So Mr D invested even 
though it warned Mr D about the risks of the MN investment.
In April 2013 Redswan emailed Mr D.  It included the following:
With regard to your [MN] application, I would be grateful if you could confirm to me 
by email, your understanding of the risks and that you remain committed to making the 
investment as mentioned below:
I have been given the opportunity to read & understand the [MN] Information 
Memorandum, Investment process and risk Evaluation Statement and ask any 
questions if anything remains unclear.  I am aware that:
1. The investment is high risk & speculative in its very nature;
2. Has currency risk that is not offset, i.e. hedged out;
3. Is heavily geared i.e. it is borrowing money in excess of its net assets to make 
further investments;
4. It is illiquid, or at least is until the anniversary date;
5. There is no recourse to any regulatory financial compensation scheme in the vent of 
the investments failure, or ombudsman scheme if you should have a complaint 
about the investment.
Mr D replied:
Yes I understand the risk.
Similar warnings were issued prior to the roll overs in 2014 and 2015.
Mr H was introduced to the idea of investing his pension in MN by a friend and Mr C.  But 
there is no evidence to indicate Mr H was especially motivated to invest in MN as with the investor in the Adams v Options case who was motivated by a cash back payment.   And 
while I note the warnings, they do not relate specifically to the issues such as Redswan 
being unable to carry out checks to reasonably satisfy itself that the investment was a safe 
investment for its SIPP.   
So I do not think the warnings show that Mr H would have insisted on investing in MN if 
Redswan had refused to allow the investment in its SIPP.
In my view the introduction of the warnings by Redswan in 2013, does not absolve 
Redswan of its responsibility to have carried out sufficient due diligence on the MN loan 
note investment prior to accepting the investment into its SIPP wrapper.  
my conclusion on the merits 
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances of this case it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Redswan should 
not have accepted the MN loan note investment into its SIPP wrapper. If it had undertaken 
sufficient due diligence before doing so, it would have identified either that the investment 
was not safe to include in its SIPPs, or that it was unable to obtain sufficient information on 
the investment in order to draw a conclusion as to whether it was safe or not and in that 
situation it ought to also have refused to include it in its SIPPS. 
Or alternatively, and more likely given what Redswan has said in response to my provisional 
decision, it should have decided that it was not economically viable for it to carry out 
reasonable due diligence on the MN investment.  In which case it should have refused to 
allow the investment in its SIPP wrapper because it was unable to reasonably conclude it 
was an investment it was happy to have in its SIPPs.  
Given these failings, I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Redswan to be 
accountable for the losses Mr D has suffered.   
I say this having given careful consideration to the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP, but 
also bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision that is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
reasonably be in if things had not gone wrong. In my view that means comparing Mr Ds 
present position to the position he would be if he had not moved his existing personal 
pension.
It is therefore my view that Redswan should put things right as follows:
Redswan should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr Ds pension, if 
he had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP. In summary:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ds previous pension plan, if it had not 
been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Ds SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy the loan note (or treat it as having a zero value in 
the above calculations  see below).4. Pay an amount into Mr Ds SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
5. Pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience the avoidable problems with 
his pension will have caused him.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation of the previous pension, then 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That is a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had 
been chosen taking account of Mr Ds likely attitude to risk.
If Redswan is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the above calculation. And Redswan may ask Mr D 
to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr D may receive from the investments and any eventual sums he 
would be able to access from the SIPP. Redswan will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
If Redswan is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ds SIPP it should pay the 
compensation as a lump sum to Mr D. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP it 
would have provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mr D is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr D or into his 
SIPP within 28 days of the date Redswan receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is 
not paid within 28 days.
My final decision
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Redswan Limited should pay Mr D the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 (including distress 
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
If Redswan Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment currently 
illiquid should be retained by Mr D. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from 
the investment together with the compensation paid by Redswan Limited (excluding any 
interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Redswan Limited may request an undertaking from Mr D that either he repays to Redswan 
Limited any amount Mr D may receive from the investment thereafter or if possible, transfers 
the investment at that point.
Mr D should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.Redswan Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Redswan Limited pays Mr D the balance plus any interest on 
the balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Redswan 
Limited. It is unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman