DRN-4068499
The complaint
Miss B complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs decision to decline a claim 
made under her appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B had an insurance policy with D&G to cover her fridge-freezer. The policy terms say 
D&G will cover breakdown (after the end of the manufacturers guarantee) and accidental 
damage. D&G will pay for repairs or replace the item or provide vouchers so the policyholder 
can replace it at the full retail price.
Miss B took out the policy in July 2020. She made claims - and D&G sent engineers to carry 
out repairs  in October 2020, January 2021, August 2021 and May 2022.
Miss B made a further claim in October 2022. The appointed engineer said the fridge-freezer 
was in fact two entirely separate appliances  a fridge and a freezer. And so D&G declined 
the claim, telling Miss B that she should have taken out two separate policies and the current 
issue with the freezer wasnt covered.
Miss B wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to D&G. She said the fridge and freezer 
had been connected, but shed separated them  as you can relatively easily do  when she 
moved home. 
She said theyd been bought as one item, clearly fitted together and had the same finish. 
And she said shed been clear when she took out the policy that she was insuring a fridge-
freezer. 
She also pointed out that the previous repairs has been carried out without any objection 
when the fridge and freezer elements had been connected to each other.
D&G asked an independent expert for a second opinion. They agreed that there were two 
separate appliances  each with its own model number. 
So, D&G maintained their position. They said previous claims had been recorded against the 
fridges model number, but the latest claim was for repairs to the freezer, which had a 
separate model number and was a separate appliance.
Miss B wasnt happy with D&Gs response to her complaint, so she brought it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought D&G hadnt dealt with Miss Bs claim fairly. 
He said D&G should carry out the repairs - or pay Miss B the cost of any repairs shed had 
carried out. And if the latter, they should add interest at 8% simple to the payment. He also 
said they should pay Miss B £50 in compensation for her trouble and upset, particularly 
because D&G had sent communications about the claim to Miss Bs previous address.
D&G disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in no doubt that the fridge-freezer  which Miss B bought second hand as a single item  
is in essence two appliances. They might match and fit together, but D&G have provided 
convincing evidence that there are two separate model numbers - one for the fridge and one 
for the freezer.
I believe Miss B has accepted this and acknowledged that in future, she will need to cover 
the items separately if she wants to insure them.
However, Miss B undoubtedly asked D&G to cover a fridge-freezer when she took out the 
policy. And thats what the policy says is covered. Its absolutely clear Miss B thought shed 
bought a single item  a fridge-freezer  which could legitimately be insured under one policy 
with D&G.
Im also satisfied that D&G carried out several repairs to the fridge-freezer whilst it was 
connected together, in Miss Bs previous home. And from what Miss B tells us, the repairs 
werent just to the fridge, they were to both the fridge and the freezer at various times.
D&G say all the previous repairs were recorded by their engineers against the fridges model 
number. But it appears that was the engineers error on at least one occasion.
So, in summary, Miss B applied for a policy to cover a fridge-freezer in good faith. D&G 
accepted that application. D&Gs engineers then attended several times to carry out repairs 
 to both appliances  and never said to Miss B that she in fact had two appliances that 
needed to be covered separately.
If any of the previous engineers had identified that issue and advised Miss B correctly, then 
Im convinced Miss B would have insured the two appliances separately. She clearly wanted 
them to be covered. Theres no reason to suspect she wouldnt have paid a small amount 
extra each month to give her peace of mind.
That being the case, I agree with our investigator that it was unfair and unreasonable for 
D&G to decline the claim in October 2022. It was their own engineers failure to identify the 
issue which put Miss B  entirely unbeknown to her - in the position of technically not being 
insured for one or other of the appliances.
Putting things right
So, Im going to require D&G to carry out or pay for the necessary repairs to Miss Bs fridge-
freezer on this occasion  although as our investigator said, I dont think theyre in any way 
obliged to provide cover for both appliances under one policy after that point.
If Miss B has already had the repairs carried out, D&G should reimburse her the full cost as 
soon as Miss B provides a receipt or invoice for the repairs. Given that Miss B has been 
deprived of that money since she paid it out, D&G must add interest at 8% simple  
calculated from the date Miss B paid for the repairs to the date D&G reimburse her.
I understand the policy was cancelled in December 2022, so Miss B has paid no monthly 
premiums after that date. I think D&G should have settled this claim before then and so 
Miss B cant be said to have derived any benefit from the policy after that date. However, I think D&G are entitled to ask Miss B to pay any premiums up to December 2022 
if she hasnt already paid them. For the sake of simplicity, they can deduct any remaining 
premiums to cover that period (up to 24 December 2022) from the amount the now pay 
Miss B for the repairs. 
Of course, if Miss B paid her premiums in full up to 24 December 2022, I wouldnt expect 
D&G to make any such deductions when they settle the claim.
Miss B has suffered a degree of inconvenience and stress as a result of D&Gs refusal to 
settle the claim in October 2022 soon after it was made - and as a result of their mis-directed 
communications which went to her previous address. I agree with our investigator that £50 is 
sufficient compensation for Miss Bs trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must:
settle Miss Bs October 2022 claim by repairing her fridge-freezer or by paying her in 
full for the repairs if shes already had them carried out, on presentation of a receipt 
or invoice; and
if they pay for repairs already carried out, add interest at 8% simple calculated from 
the date Miss B paid for the repairs to the date this payment is made; and
pay Miss B £50 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
If Domestic & General Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman