DRN-2353783
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in August 2010. Mr and Mrs S say Scottish Building Society (SBS) mis-sold them PPI.
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI when they were arranging further borrowing on their 
existing mortgage. 
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint and also said that SBS didnt 
need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs S had paid for the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think SBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because SBS has provided us with the paperwork from 
their mortgage application. I see that they completed a separate PPI application form on 
which they specified the type of PPI cover they wanted, having first answered a number 
of questions to show they were both eligible for the cover. They then both signed the 
form. If Mr and Mrs S hadnt wanted PPI its unlikely they would have completed this form. 
So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs S chose to take out PPI and they likely 
did so without undue pressure.
SBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S  Ive not seen anything to suggest it 
provided advice to Mr and Mrs S and I think thats supported by the fact they agreed to 
take the policy out during a telephone call  and not at a meeting as theyve suggested. 
So it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give 
Mr and Mrs S enough clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it 
was right for them.
While the mortgage application provided an outline of the cover, including how the cost 
was calculated and set out some of the key exclusions of cover, I still think the information 
SBS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found 
that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S  for example they were both was eligible for 
the cover and there was nothing about their occupations that would have made it difficult 
for them to claim. They didnt tell us about being entitled to any benefits from their 
employers if they were unable to work. Mrs S told us she was entitled to redundancy pay 
but given her length of employment I think its likely that the PPI would have paid out for 
longer than her redundancy entitlement.
Although Mr S has told us about a medical condition he had some time before the policy 
was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused them to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say this because 
he had the medical condition occurred in or around 2001, was controlled by medication and 
appropriate treatment and only led to Mr S taking an occasional day off work. Hes not said 
or implied that the condition caused him ongoing problems such that I think it was likely 
hed have thought the main reason hed need to claim on the policy would be for this 
particular medical condition. 
Finally I note there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. So it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs S if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have declined the cover had SBS 
done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time; 
particularly given the policy was protecting their mortgage and ultimately their home. And 
in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints.
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not 
correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant SBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means SBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Commission complaint
Ive also decided that this is not a complaint where Im able to look into commission.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and regulated 
mortgages were no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was also possible for 
mortgages taken out before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the 
mortgage  such as a further advance or interest rate switch. Different lenders took 
different approaches to this. 
SBS has confirmed to us that Mr and Mrs Ss additional borrowing had been regulated 
from when it started in August 2010. So it wasnt covered by the Consumer Credit Act. 
This means the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. Therefore, SBS doesnt need to 
refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S for the PPI they took out to go with their 
mortgage.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons
And as Ive also decided that there isnt a commission complaint to consider, I dont require 
Scottish Building Society to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman