DRN-3720146
The complaint
Ms P has complained about the service received from Computershare Investor Services 
PLC (Computershare). She says it didnt let her sell shares due to imposing checks to 
verify who she was. She said it didnt acknowledge a suggestion she made as to how to 
verify her identity. She said it should have verified her a lot quicker than it did. Ms P says this 
led to her incurring investment losses. 
What happened
Ms P held shares with her employer as part of an employee share scheme. These shares 
were administered by Computershare. Ms P logged in online with Computershare on 10 
January 2022, with an aim to sell her shares but she was unable to. Two days later, she sent 
a query to Computershare about this. 
Computershare says it then replied on 13 January 2022 and asked at this point for 
identification so that it could verify her identity. Ms Ps name was different on her 
identification documents than what had been given on her account with Computershare. Ms 
P has explained that this is because the name she goes by and is known as, is different to 
the name that is on identification documents such as a birth certificate or passport.
Computershare says that it advised during a call on 2 February 2022, that Ms P needed to 
obtain a statutory declaration form from a solicitor and then send it to them, after which they 
could proceed and verify her so she could sell her shares. It says it provided a follow up 
letter on 9 February 2022 advising of this also. It says it also sent a further email explaining 
what it needed on 22 February 2022.
Ms P says that she tried to explain to Computershare during this time, and then again on 23 
February 2022 that she had been an employee with the company that it was administering 
the share scheme for, for many years and that the HR section of the company could verify 
her identity. She says Computershare did not respond to her suggestion or acknowledge 
what she was saying. Ms P did then go on to provide Computershare with a statutory 
declaration from her solicitor and was notified that she could sell her shares from 31 August 
2022.  
Ms P was not happy with the way Computershare handled her request to sell her shares and 
then her complaint. She said she was not happy at the amount of time it had taken her to 
chase things up and that there was no acknowledgment from it about what she was saying. 
So, she contacted our service. 
An investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint. He initially sent a view upholding Ms Ps 
complaint as he didnt feel Computershare had given the correct information to her and if it 
had, in his view, Ms P would have been able to sell her shares a lot sooner than she did. 
Computershare responded and provided further information. The investigator sent a second 
view this time saying that Computershare most likely gave Ms P information about requiring 
a statutory declaration form a lot sooner, so he couldnt conclude that it was responsible for 
any failings.
Ms P disagreed with the investigators second view. So as this is the case and the parties 
are not in agreement, Ms Ps complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look 
into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Ms P tried to sell shares that she held in an employee share scheme. This scheme 
was administered by Computershare. She tried to do this on 10 January 2022 but was 
unable to do so. This is because Computershare said that it needed to verify Ms Ps identity 
first. 
The issue that I have looked into with this and I think is the crux of Ms Ps complaint, is 
whether Computershare was responsible for any delay in Ms P being able to sell her shares. 
When I look into what both parties have said and the documentation that has been 
submitted, I dont think it was. I will explain why.
There is not a lot of information provided by either party about what was said between 10 
January 2022 and 2 February 2022 but there was some discussion between them about 
verification. I have made this conclusion based on Ms Ps recollections and the notes 
provided by Computershare. So, at this stage, I cant conclude Computershare didnt 
respond within a reasonable timeframe to Ms Ps requests at this early stage.
That said not a lot of detail has been provided about what was said by either party. On 
balance and based on what I have in front of me, I havent seen enough to conclude 
Computershare gave the wrong or incorrect information to Ms P before 2 February 2022. 
Computershare has provided a call recording from 2 February 2022. I have listened to this 
call between the parties. Computershare confirmed within this phone call that Ms P needed 
to obtain a statutory declaration form. So, I think it is clear to me that Computershare has 
made Ms P aware of what is needed, at least from this point, that is to obtain a statutory 
declaration form signed by her solicitor in order to verify her identity. 
Ms P didnt then go and obtain a statutory declaration form signed by her solicitor. Instead, 
Computershare went on to repeat its request on 9 February 2022 and then again explained 
in detail on 22 February 2022 again what it needed to verify Ms Ps identity. 
Ms P then responded to Computershare on 23 February 2022 to say that alternatively rather 
than obtain a statutory declaration form, her employers HR section could provide a letter to 
verify who she was. Computershare was unable to take Ms Ps suggestion as a form of 
identification. I can see that it had put in place a process to verify its clients and part of this 
was in certain circumstances, to request that a statutory declaration form be obtained. I dont 
think this was an unreasonable or out of the ordinary request in the circumstances here from 
Computershare.
Ms P though, was still of a view that Computershare should obtain verification through her 
employer, when she made her complaint to our service on 14 and 18 March 2022. Ms P then 
accepted on 23 May 2022 that she needed to obtain a letter from her solicitor and did so 
again on 10 June 2022.
Ms P then arranged through her solicitor, a signed statutory declaration form and got 
confirmation from Computershare on 31 August 2022 that she was able to sell her shares 
from then. After looking through in detail at what happened, I can see that Ms P was informed she 
needed to obtain a statutory declaration form on 2 February 2022. But Ms P then tried to 
argue that Computershare could obtain verification using a different method. It wasnt until 
23 May 2022 that Ms P informed our service that she needed to obtain the declaration form 
from her solicitor, and she then didnt go on to be verified until August 2022. So even if 
Computershare had provided verification details sooner than I can be sure it did, on 2 
February 2022, I dont think it is likely Ms P would have sought to obtain the information 
needed, any sooner than she did. This is because Ms P felt Computershare could verify her 
in a different way and only agreed that she would get the declaration form at a much later 
date. So, it follows that I dont think it would have made any difference if Ms P had been 
given information about verification any sooner by Computershare. 
In conclusion, I havent seen enough that would suggest Computershare provided incorrect 
information or ought to have provided more about the verification process, when Ms P 
looked to sell her shares. I also dont think Computershare was wrong to ask Ms P for the 
information it was seeking as part of this. And even if it had provided the information sooner, 
I dont think it would have made any difference to when Ms P sold her shares.
Finally, Ms P has said she is unhappy at the amount of time she has had to chase 
Computershare and that it didnt acknowledge what she was saying. But after looking 
through the documentation provided here, I can see that Computershare was clear as to 
what it needed for verification and asked Ms P for this on a number of occasions as I have 
already mentioned. 
So, for the reasons given, I dont think it would be fair to ask Computershare to compensate    
Ms P for any investment losses or for anything else as I dont think it was responsible for any 
failings here. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms P but I hope she will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman