DRN-4330806
The complaint
Ms D complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) adding her name to a joint 
account, agreeing an overdraft without her knowledge and unfairly defaulting the account.
What happened
Ms D was added to her ex-partners joint account in 2014. 
In 2023, the account defaulted due to overdraft arrears. Ms D feels she shouldnt be liable 
for the debt. She says she was deemed unfit for credit, didn't take out the overdraft, was 
coerced and wasnt given any support when she complained. 
Ms D explains that she has been proactive with the account and the default occurred 
because RBS didnt communicate with her by her preferred method.
For these reasons Ms D wants RBS to:
Remove her name from the account
Remove the default from her credit file
Pay her compensation 
RBS say they previously responded to Ms Ds requests to be removed from the account and 
were unable to do so unless both parties agreed to this and if they can ascertain that the 
other party can service the debt. They also said that Ms D was liable for the debt, and they 
had correctly applied the default.
Ms D complained to our service; however, our investigator couldnt see that RBS had done 
anything wrong.
As Ms D remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
In cases where some information is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I must reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available information.
Ms D believes that she shouldnt be responsible for either the account or overdraft. Also, that 
RBS didnt offer support or consider freezing her account when she asked for support.
The file shows that Ms D previously complained about this to RBS in both 2020 and 2022. 
Ms D wanted to know how RBS had agreed the overdraft facility without her approval and 
requested that her name be removed as the joint party. 
RBS didnt uphold her complaints and gave advice. They explained that joint accounts are 
subject to joint and several liability which means that each party is liable by themselves to 
repay the whole of the borrowing as well as together with the other party. Also, they said 
there was no error in respect of the joint party applying for an overdraft facility as under joint 
& several liability each account holder could operate the account independently.
I found that following both complaints RBS gave Ms D the following referral rights which had 
a 6-month time limit:
If you do not refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not have our permission to 
consider your complaint and so will only be able to do so in very limited circumstances. For 
example, if the Ombudsman believes that the delay was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances.  
As Ms D didnt submit a complaint to our service within the time limits, I considered if there 
were any exceptional circumstances that may have prevented her referral. 
I found that Ms D informed RBS that she had been coerced into agreeing to the joint 
account. However, this was shortly after her second complaint in 2022, which was two years 
after she had separated from her ex-partner.
This led to RBS undertaking an investigation in line with their coercive debt framework. RBS 
have file notes and these show that they couldnt see any evidence of coerced debt or 
request to freeze the account. Also, they had evidence that both parties were using the 
account when it went into an overdrawn position, so they couldnt determine that Ms D 
wasnt gaining a benefit from the funds.
Furthermore, the file submissions from Ms D describes an ex-partner experiencing financial 
management difficulties. 
So, considering the above and all the information on file, I cant see any exceptional 
circumstances to look at the complaints Ms D raised with RBS in 2020 and 2022 about 
opening the account, the overdraft or lack of support.
I did though look closely at whether RBS acted in a fair and reasonable way when applying 
the default to Ms Ds joint account. 
As Ms D said she didnt know about RBSs default action and would have contacted the 
bank immediately to make some payment arrangements, I looked closely at the terms and 
conditions of the account and the correspondence on file. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that RBS acted correctly. They sent letters to the address they 
had on their system, which was provided by Ms D, informing her that her account was in 
arrears and of their intended action. They also sent support letters together with emails and 
attempted collection calls.
Ms D says she didnt receive RBSs important notification letters, her preferred method of 
contact was by email and the emails she received were unclear. However, the reason Ms D 
didnt receive RBSs letters was because she didnt update her address due to confidentiality 
concerns. Although I can understand Ms Ds address concerns and think it more likely than not that 
she did state a preference for email communication, I cant see that she had a discussion 
with RBS about her communication concerns. Had she informed RBS that it was more than 
a preference, I think it likely that alternative methods of receiving important and sensitive 
correspondence, that banks cant send by email for security reasons, couldve been 
discussed or explored. 
Also, it appears that Ms D may possibly have a connection or arrangement with the address 
RBS hold. I say this because Ms D hasnt provided RBS with a new address. Also, she 
hasnt explained how she intends to manage correspondence being sent to her at the 
address they held. Furthermore, RBS say they have no records of any letters being returned 
and Ms D was using the address they held when they communicated with her about her 
complaint in 2022.
From reviewing RBS summary of calls and correspondence, including statements and email 
alerts, I dont think it would be fair to say that RBS have made an error in their 
communications. Also, I found RBS offered support and payment plans.
I recognise Ms Ds difficult position here and appreciate she will be disappointed with my 
decision but, having considered all the above, I think RBS have acted fairly and reasonably 
when applying their default process.
So, having considered all the above and information on file, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman