DRN-1766407
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to cancel a term 
assurance policy she held with it when she took out new protection. She feels Aviva didnt 
act on her instruction and therefore she has been paying for more cover than she needed.
What happened
Mrs G took out a level term assurance policy in 2008 in her sole (maiden) name. Little 
information has been provided about this policy, but she has said it was taken out for her flat. 
In 2013 she took out a joint critical illness policy with her husband, via a broker.
Mrs G has said that since 2013 she had seen she was paying two premiums to Aviva but 
had assumed this was because the 2013 policy was in her and her husbands single names.
She also said that shed queried this with Aviva in the past and had been told this was the 
case.
Shes explained that recently she had cause to question Aviva again about the two 
premiums and this time it came to light that the 2013 was in joint names but the policy she 
had taken in 2008 was also still in force.
Mrs G has said she remembers calling Aviva in 2013 to cancel the policy when she took the 
joint one out. She says he did this from her brokers office.
Mrs G is also unhappy with the wrong information Aviva had previously provided to her 
about having single polices.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
explained that he couldnt find any evidence that Mrs G had asked Aviva to cancel the 2008 
policy in 2013.
Mrs G didnt agree and remained of the view Aviva hadnt followed her instructions. She also 
reiterated how unhappy she was with the wrong information Aviva had given her several 
times about having the critical illness policy in single names when in fact it was in joint 
names.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, its important to make clear that as an impartial service I must make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by both parties. Where this evidence is sparse or 
inconclusive, I need to base my decision on what I think most likely happened.
In this case neither Aviva or Mrs G can provide any conclusive record of the request to 
cancel the 2008 policy from 2013. Mrs G has told what she thinks she did in regard to the 
policy and while I am not disregarding this, I need to be sure that she called to cancel the 
policy if I am to uphold this complaint. On the other hand, I can see that Aviva searched its 
systems going back to 2008 for any calls from Mrs G but didnt find anything. I have no 
reason to doubt this information therefore I cant conclusively decide that there is a failing on 
the part of Aviva in respect of the 2008 term assurance policy.
Only a policyholder can cancel their policy. Aviva wouldnt have been able to review any 
protection Mrs G had in place at any time nor could it have discussed the matter with her or 
suggest she cancel it. This was her decision alone. Also, level term assurance policies are 
usually sold as a means to provide some protection for the policyholders family in the event 
of their death so its not unreasonable that she would have wanted to keep this in place even 
though she took out another protection policy.
Further to this the information I have is that the policy Mrs G and her husband took in 2013 
was just for critical illness protection which is very different to the protection provided by the 
2008 policy. So again it doesnt seem wholly unreasonable that both policies were in place at 
the same time.
Regarding the wrong information Mrs G received from Aviva, I appreciate this was frustrating 
but ultimately Mrs G was responsible for knowing what protection she had in place. Im sure 
she would have had the policy documents from 2013 so she would have been able to see 
that the policy was in joint names. So while I agree Aviva gave her wrong information about 
the policy I think Mrs G could have rectified this quite quickly by finding the policy information 
herself.
In addition to the point already made I do think that its reasonable Mrs G should have 
noticed she was making the extra unwanted payment a lot earlier than when she raised her 
concerns with Aviva. Its reasonable that Mrs G would have seen she was paying two 
premiums from the point she took the joint policy in 2013. I know she says she was told by 
Aviva that this policy was in single names but when she took out the policy in 2013, she 
would have known the policy was in joint names and she would have known what she was 
paying for it. Therefore, when she noticed two premiums going to Aviva, I think she would 
have realised that something was wrong if that wasnt what she had wanted. She therefore 
would have had the opportunity to contact Aviva with the relevant policy numbers, for 
accurate identification, and cancel the policy she no longer wanted. But again, I havent seen 
any evidence that this is something Mrs G did before now.
Overall, I havent seen anything that leads me to safely conclude that Mrs G spoke to Aviva 
in 2013 about cancelling the policy from 2008. I therefore cant safely conclude that Aviva 
failed to follow any of her instructions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman