DRN-3802463
The complaint
Mr B says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for a hotel stay.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs B used Mr Bs Amex credit card (shes an additional cardholder) to 
make payment for hotel accommodation abroad in April 2020. In March she sends the Hotel 
an email saying shed cancelled the accommodation through the online process due to the 
spread of the Pandemic. The Hotel responded by saying as the accommodation had been 
cancelled its terms and conditions meant it wouldnt be making a refund. The Hotel noted it 
was still open, as were its countrys borders. After some debate, deadlock was reached with 
the Hotel, so Mr B complained to Amex.
Amex said it raised a Chargeback with the Hotel, and on receipt of the Hotels defence to the 
chargeback decided not to take the chargeback further. It also considered Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1975 and decided that the requisite relationship wasnt in place for it to 
be held liable under that legislation. Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our Investigator felt Amex didnt have to do anymore. And Mr B remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B used his Amex credit card to pay for the Hotel. This meant that if certain criteria were 
met Amex can have certain responsibilities to Mr B which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain 
circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr B to hold Amex liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence Amex 
can be held responsible for a like claim against the Hotel.
Also Mr Bs Amex credit card is part of a card scheme and this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Amex a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as 
the hotel, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, but this 
service considers raising chargebacks to be good practice. However it is possible that Amex 
could take the chargeback as far as possible and Mr B still not be successful in getting a 
refund.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Amex and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr B fairly. This decision isnt about the Hotel, 
which isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr B doesnt dispute that his Amex credit card was used here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Amex couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Amex did raise a chargeback here. It says it considered the matter and noted that Mr B 
originally accepted that the Hotel reservation was cancelled by Mrs B. And it points to the 
terms and conditions of the Hotel. So Amex says it didnt continue with the chargeback 
because it felt that such a chargeback would not have a reasonable prospect of success.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions and I can see that the booking wasnt refundable if 
cancelled. And that was the defence the Hotel provided to Amex. Chargeback is in essence 
a simple, internal mechanism for disputes between parties based on specific reason codes 
for chargebacks and the relevant defences to those reason codes. It doesnt consider 
broader matters, but rather considers the matter purely on the rules of the scheme. Having 
considered the defence the Hotel raised and the established facts of the case Im not 
persuaded Amex treated Mr B unfairly by not taking the chargeback further. So I dont think 
Mr B has lost out because of what Amex did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Bs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place. Amex has said because Mrs B arranged the Hotel stay and isnt the 
debtor here (because she used an additional card which is linked to Mr Bs Amex account 
rather than being her own account) then the DCS arrangement isnt in place and thus Amex 
cannot be held liable.
 
Amex is wrong here and it is disappointing to see it has repeated this stance to this service. 
Mr B has argued vehemently on this point and is broadly correct in his arguments. Amex 
doesnt have to refund Mr B for this Hotel stay but for different reasons than those to which it 
has given. The Investigator has explained the reasons why it doesnt have to pay, and those 
reasons are correct. But in order for the relevant Amex staff to learn from this case Ill 
explain why its position is incorrect.
Firstly Mr B and Mrs B have said the booking was for them both to go to the hotel. Mr B was 
on balance a contracting party as I can see he said he was due to go and I can see that the 
hotel confirms two people are due to stay in the room and there is no evidence of anyone 
else due to stay in the room with Mrs B. Just because he isnt named on the booking doesnt 
mean he isnt a contracting party. Accordingly as hes the debtor, a contractor, and a 
beneficiary, as he would receive benefit under the contract, that is, he was due to stay in the 
hotel, then the DCS arrangement is in place here.Secondly, as a married couple and Mrs B having an additional card and that Mr B was to be 
at least a beneficiary of the contract, as he was due to stay in the room, and clearly Mr Bs 
and Mrs Bs financial affairs are intertwined then the principle of Joint Affairs would apply 
here also. So for either and both of these reasons Im satisfied Amexs arguments about the 
DCS arrangement are erroneous.
So although Amexs position on DCS here is incorrect I dont think this makes a difference 
here as I dont think it needs to refund Mr B. For Amex to be held accountable under a like 
claim under s75 it has to be shown that the Hotel either breached the contract or materially 
misrepresented something to Mr B which was untrue and that led to loss.
Mr B didnt originally dispute that they cancelled the hotel stay. But he says its unfair that he 
has to bear this cost because of Covid. But other than saying Amexs position on the DCS 
arrangement was flawed he hasnt provided any reasoning why Amex should bear this cost 
instead of him. And just because Mr B has lost out doesnt make it fair for Amex to bear this 
cost.
Mr B points to the government of the country where the Hotel is located announcing 
restrictions just prior to Mrs B cancelling. But this announcement made clear the restrictions 
were only in place for a limited period and didnt cover the period Mr B and Mrs B were due 
to stay at the hotel. The Hotel made the point it was open, and the country borders were 
open. So when Mrs B cancelled Im not persuaded the hotel couldnt provide the 
accommodation when it was due to. And irrespective of this the booking was cancelled 
before any opportunity to find out. It is possible if Mrs B hadnt cancelled and the contract 
had remained in place then it may have resulted in a frustrated contract or Force Majeure 
clauses coming into play and possibly a different result for Mr B. But this didnt happen 
because Mrs B cancelled the agreement and at that point it came to an end. So what 
happened after this point is in not at the crux of this matter.
Mr B says the cancellation clause shouldnt have applied because it wasnt possible for them 
to fulfil their side of the contract. But I disagree, because its a fundamental basis of contract 
that the parties agree to the terms of the agreement and thus in essence both bear potential 
benefits and potential risks depending on what happens between agreement and fulfilment 
and how the contract plays out. And the cancellation/no refund clause is what the parties 
agreed to here. And I see no persuasive reason for why Amex should cover this loss. Its 
liability is the same as that of the hotel in a like claim in the courts. And Im satisfied that 
there is no persuasive reason to believe Mr B would be successful in a claim for getting a 
refund on a non-refundable cancellation.
Mr B says the contract wasnt cancelled because there was later discussion about a change 
of dates. But such discussion was after Mrs B wrote shed cancelled the contract and had 
received confirmation of the contract being cancelled. So clearly the hotel was offering such 
dates as a gesture of goodwill. And Amex isnt responsible for that. The contract had ended 
once Mrs B cancelled it and the Hotel was on notice of this.
Mr B says that because Amexs arguments to him were wrong it should refund him. But that 
doesnt follow. As Mrs B cancelled the contract and it had ended, Amex had no liability to Mr 
B from that cancellation under this legislation. So just because much later it gave the wrong 
reasons for not having a liability to Mr B doesnt mean that Mrs B didnt cancel the contract 
or that Amex should bear a liability it doesnt have. Mr Bs arguments arent persuasive here.
Mr B has said that the Investigators position (and hence mine) isnt fair. There is no doubt 
that Mr B has lost these funds for a hotel booking that he never had use of. But there is no 
persuasive reason why Amex should cover these costs bearing in mind Mrs B cancelled the 
booking having previously agreed to the terms (including the no-refund term of the booking).So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr B has said, Im not persuaded 
Amex has treated Mr B unfairly by not refunding him (albeit for incorrect reasons). And as a 
consequence Ive decided that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman