DRN-2810236
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L are unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited cancelled their 
existing life insurance policy when they applied for a new one. And that L&G then declined 
Mrs Ls application.
 
What happened
In 2006 Mr L and Mrs L took out a joint life insurance policy which Ill refer to as policy A. 
In November 2019 Mr and Mrs M applied for a new joint life insurance policy with L&G  
which Ill refer to as policy B. In this application they made L&G aware of Mrs Ls 
fibromyalgia and Sjogrens syndrome. The policy was set up and L&G started taking the 
monthly premiums. Policy A was then cancelled. L&G then wrote to Mr L and Mrs L asking 
them to check their details and confirm if there were any changes to make. Mr L and Mrs L 
then disclosed further details about Mrs Ls medical history. 
In January 2020 L&G reviewed the medical information Mr L and Mrs L supplied but decided 
not to accept cover for Mrs L on policy B. Instead L&G offered Mr L a single policy. In March 
2020 L&G set up Mr Ls single policy and cancelled policy B. And it said it would refund the 
premiums Mr L and Mrs L had paid for policy B. 
Mr L and Mrs L were unhappy both policy A and B had been cancelled, so they made a 
complaint. They said they were told by L&G when they applied for policy B that policy A 
would remain open until it ended in March 2021. 
L&G reviewed the complaint. It said its decision to cancel policy B was fair because of the 
conditions Mrs L had made it aware of, and Mr L and Mrs L had instructed it to cancel policy 
A when they submitted their new application. But L&G did say it shouldve reinstated policy A 
when Mr L requested this in January 2020. L&G offered to pay the outstanding premiums on 
policy A that hadnt been collected (since November 2019) for the trouble and upset it had 
caused. Mr L and Mrs L remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said L&G 
had fairly reviewed the medical information and decided it didnt want to accept the risk of 
insuring Mrs L on policy B. And she was satisfied that Mr L and Mrs L had confirmed they 
wanted policy A to be cancelled when policy B started. The investigator added that L&G 
shouldve reinstated policy A when Mr L and Mrs L asked in January 2020, but L&G did offer 
to do this and didnt receive a response from Mr L and Mrs L.  
Mr L and Mrs L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. They said L&G didnt 
have to rush to set up policy B and it couldve asked for more medical information from their 
GP before deciding not to insure Mrs L.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr L and Mrs L feel strongly about this complaint and this will come 
as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading) provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr L and Mrs L made a misrepresentation 
when taking out policy B, and if so, whether L&G has shown it wouldnt have offered the 
policy at all or wouldve done on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation when applying for policy B?
During the application process for policy B, Mrs L answered No to the following question;
22. During the last 2 years have you seen a health professional about a stomach, bowel or 
oesophageal condition, for example Crohn's?
c) Is, or was, your Sjogren's Syndrome associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, 
rheumatoid arthritis or another medical condition?
When L&G asked Mr L and Mrs L to check their answers, they made L&G aware Mrs L was 
suffering from fibromyalgia caused by Sjogrens syndrome. They also said an 
Electromyography (EMG) test had been requested for Mrs L. L&G then requested further 
information and Mrs L said the test was linked to her Sjogrens syndrome and confirmed she 
had fibromyalgia with ongoing symptoms. 
After considering the above question, Im satisfied it was clear that L&G wanted Mrs L to 
confirm if her Sjogrens syndrome was associated with another medical condition. And 
having reviewed the medical records and what Mrs L subsequently provided to L&G, Im 
satisfied the question was answered incorrectly. Mrs L confirmed there was a link between 
her fibromyalgia and Sjogrens syndrome and that she was suffering ongoing symptoms 
from these conditions later in the application. 
So, Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation here. 
What would L&G have done differently in relation to policy B? 
It would be unfair to require an insurer to honour a contract when the terms it agreed to were 
influenced by incorrect information. L&G has said Mrs L was careless when she failed to 
answer the above question correctly. Im not satisfied she deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented her medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise her actions as careless here. The questions L&G asked in its application were clear and Mrs L was happy 
to check these answers and provide further information in relation to her conditions. 
So, where there has been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says insurers can re-
underwrite the policy as they wouldve done if theyd received correct answers. 
L&G has provided us with information from its underwriting department which Ive reviewed 
independently, including parts of the underwriting manual which sets out its general 
approach to new applications. These show that L&Gs normal approach wouldve been to 
decline cover for Mrs L based upon the answers and information she subsequently gave to 
L&G. Which means L&G didnt treat them unfairly when it declined Mrs L cover under their 
joint policy. 
L&G cancelling policy A
I note Mr L and Mrs L are also unhappy policy A was cancelled when they applied for policy 
B. Ive listened to the phone call where L&G explained to them that when policy B started 
their existing policy could end, and it was up to Mr L and Mrs L whether they wanted to pay 
for both policies at the same time. As a result, Im satisfied this was clearly explained to them 
at the time. And Im satisfied, it was Mr L and Mrs Ls decision not to have both policies 
running at the same time. So, I dont think L&G made a mistake when it cancelled policy A. 
Ive seen that Mr L did then ask for policy A to be reinstated in January 2020. L&G shouldve 
taken action at this point. But Ive considered that it did offer to reinstate this cover in its final 
response letter and to cover the missed premiums. However, it didnt hear back from 
Mr L and Mrs L in time. And because policy A was due to end in March 2021, I can no longer 
ask L&G to reinstate it. 
I know my decision leaves Mr L and Mrs L in a difficult position in her current state of health. 
Im sorry to disappoint them, but overall, I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. 
So, Im not going to ask L&G to take any further action here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman