DRN-2261152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about the way in which Aviva Equity Release UK Limited applies 
partial repayments to its lifetime equity release mortgages. Mr and Mrs B would also like a 
lower rate of interest applied to their mortgage.
What happened
In October 2015, after taking advice from an independent financial adviser, Mr and Mrs B 
took out an equity release mortgage with Aviva. They had an initial cash advance of £15,000 
at a fixed rate of 5.25%, with a cash reserve of £74,000 that they could draw down on at any 
time. 
Further drawdowns were made as follows:
March 2019 - £5,000 at a fixed rate of 4.80%
July 2019 - £7,500 at a fixed rate of 4.19%
September 2019 - £10,000 at a fixed rate of 3.95%
The mortgage conditions provide that in any 12-month period partial repayments can be 
made without incurring an early repayment charge of up to 10% of the sum initially borrowed 
plus any additional drawdowns. 
Six months after their last drawdown, in March 2020 Mr and Mrs B wanted to make a 
voluntary partial repayment (VPR). They contacted Aviva about this and were told that the 
VPR would be applied to the newest advance first. 
Mr B, whos dealt with the complaint throughout, was unhappy about this and complained to 
Aviva. Mr B wanted the VPR to be applied against the oldest advance which is charged at 
the highest interest rate. If Aviva wasnt able to do this, Mr B wanted the interest rate for his 
older drawdowns to be lowered. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that its policy was to apply VPRs to the 
newest drawdown first. Aviva also explained that it wasnt able to reduce the interest rates 
on any part of the drawdowns.
Mr B brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where it was considered 
by an investigator. He didnt think it should be upheld. In a detailed letter dated 5 October 
2020 the investigator went through Avivas terms and conditions in relation to VPRs. He 
noted that Aviva reserved the right to determine how to apply VPRs to the mortgage 
account, and was satisfied it was entitled to do so.
The investigator also noted that the drawdowns were all at fixed rates and so he was 
satisfied that Aviva was under no obligation to reduce the interest rate.
The mortgage allows for partial repayments of up to 10% per annum, and the investigator 
noted that Aviva had clarified that Mr and Mrs B could, if they wanted to, use this allowance 
to pay off interest on the first part of the drawdown which was at the highest rate. 
Alternatively, if Mr and Mrs B wanted the VPR to reduce the capital Aviva was entitled to 
apply the VPR to the earliest loan first.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said that Avivas terms and conditions 
are oppressive and typical of small print deliberately designed to confuse older people. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B did not make any VPR to their mortgage account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equity release mortgages are intended to be long-term products which are meant to run for 
the lifetime of the borrower. No monthly repayments are required, as a result of which the 
pricing and structure of this type of loan reflects that Aviva has lent money on which it may 
not receive any repayment for several decades. 
But Aviva has recognised there are circumstances in which a borrower might want to repay 
part of their loan, and this is provided for in the terms and conditions. I will not repeat these 
here, as the investigator set them out in his letter of 5 October 2020. But there is some 
flexibility in allowing borrowers to repay part of their loans, to a maximum of 10% of the total 
amount borrowed each year without incurring an early repayment charge.
The terms give discretion to Aviva as to how it will apply any VPR, and Aviva says that this 
will be explained in advance of any VPR being made. 
I dont have any power to tell Aviva how to run its business or what policies and processes it 
should have in place in relation to its administration of its lifetime mortgages. But I am 
required to decide if Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably. 
Im satisfied that, taking into account the long-term nature of an equity release mortgage, 
Aviva is entitled to apply a VPR to the newest drawdown first. This is a legitimate 
commercial decision which Aviva is entitled to make. Otherwise borrowers might use the 
VPR flexibility to pay off an older drawdown at a higher interest rate and then withdraw the 
additional funds at a lower interest rate, use those to repay another earlier drawdown at a 
higher rate, and then withdraw funds again at a lower rate, and so on, in effect re-scheduling 
their borrowing until it is all on an interest rate which suits them better than the ones they 
originally agreed to at the time of their original drawdowns. 
If this was to be allowed, then inevitably interest rates would need to be increased for all 
customers in order to offset the risk to Aviva of some customers re-scheduling their 
borrowing onto lower interest rates. This would penalise customers who didnt intend to 
make any VPRs. So in order to avoid penalising all customers, Aviva is entitled, I find, to 
determine how to apply VPRs as part of its business operations in order to minimise the risk 
of commercial loss.
After reviewing everything Mr B and Aviva have said, Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly. It 
explained before Mr and Mrs B made a VPR how this would be applied to the account. As 
Ive said above, the way VPRs are applied is up to Aviva, and Ive seen nothing inherently 
unfair in Avivas decision to apply VPRs to the newest drawdown first.I also note from the terms and conditions that a VPR can only be made provided that in the 
previous 12 months you have neither taken any Cash Payments from your Cash Reserve 
under Section 2 nor been given any Additional Borrowing under Section 13. 
Mr and Mrs B had taken a £10,000 drawdown from their cash reserve in September 2019, 
so it appears that they wouldnt have been able to make a VPR in March 2020 in any event. 
As it is now more than a year since their last drawdown, Mr and Mrs B are free to make a 
VPR if they wish to do so, but this would be subject to Aviva applying the VPR to the newest 
loan first.
Mr B has said that if Aviva wont apply a VPR in the way he wants, he would like the interest 
rate on those parts of the mortgage that are on higher interest rates to be reduced. Im 
satisfied Aviva is under no obligation to do this. Mr and Mrs B agreed to the interest rates at 
the time they drew down the funds.
I acknowledge Mr B considers the small print to be deliberately obscure in order to confuse 
elderly customers. That is precisely why borrowers entering into equity release mortgages 
are required to take advice from their own independent financial adviser and solicitors, which 
Mr and Mrs B did. I think the terms and conditions and mortgage offer are written in plain 
English and if there was anything Mr and Mrs B didnt understand, it was up to them to clarify 
this with their advisers before going ahead with the mortgage.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. But after careful consideration of 
everything he and Aviva have said Im unable to find Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman