DRN-3191384
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) declined to refund £1,800 which he 
lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, both parties accept that in April 2021, Mr P was called 
by a fraudster pretending to be from the relevant authorities telling him he owed money for 
taxes. 
Mr P received a series of phone calls addressing him by name, which he was told were from 
the Royal Courts of Justice, and on behalf of HMRC and the police. He was told that he 
owed unpaid taxes because his employer had made a mistake. The fraudsters told him that 
if he did not pay them he would be arrested and prosecuted. Mr P said he checked the 
number that called him through a search engine, and found it was a genuine number for the 
Royal Courts of Justice. After speaking to the fraudster for some time, and potentially telling 
them where he worked, Mr P said he also got a call from what appeared to be his employers 
phone number. The person he spoke to claimed to work for his employer and confirmed that 
errors had been made so if he didnt pay what was owed, they would get in trouble too. The 
person he spoke to told him that they would reimburse him once he had paid the taxes. 
Mr P said that when he received the call, he had only lived in the UK for around a year and a 
half and so was not familiar with how taxation works here. He was alone and felt under 
pressure from the fraudsters  fearing that he would indeed be imprisoned if he didnt 
comply with their demands. Believing things to be genuine, Mr P went ahead and made the 
payments in line with the fraudsters instructions. He transferred two payments of £900 each 
to two accounts in two individuals names  which, when questioned, they told him was 
being sent to two government officials accounts to process. 
The scam came to light when Mr P later spoke to a colleague about what had happened, 
who informed him he may have fallen victim to a scam. Mr P raised the matter with HSBC. 
HSBC investigated Mr Ps complaint and issued its final response in May 2021, not 
upholding the complaint. In summary, they didnt accept liability because they said they had 
provided sufficient fraud warnings before Mr P made the payments. They also thought Mr P 
could have done more to check she was genuinely dealing with HMRC. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld, and that HSBC should refund the money that Mr P had lost, along with interest. In 
summary, our investigator didnt consider the warnings given by HSBC were genuinely 
impactful and they thought this was a sophisticated scam and very believable to Mr P, so he 
had a reasonable basis for believing that official institutions were contacting him about tax he 
owed. 
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators opinion on Mr Ps complaint. In summary they said 
they could have given a more specific warning about fraud and scams if he had selected that 
he was making a payment following an unexpected request from a bank, police or other 
organization  but he selected that he was paying friends and family. Nevertheless, he was 
still warned to check the payment information through a trusted source. But they did say they 
did not agree that they should be held 100% responsible for the loss  which appears to 
mean that they may not think they did provide an effective warning to Mr P. They did 
maintain that he didnt do sufficient checks to ensure he was genuinely talking to HMRC or 
the Royal Court of Justice because he: 
Searched for the phone number online to check its authenticity, which would have 
brought up numerous warnings from other users that this number was being used to 
perpetrate scams, but he failed to look at these; 
didnt call back the institutions himself to verify that he owed taxes;
wasnt provided any details about how the tax liability had been calculated or what 
time period it was allegedly for, nor had he received any letters, invoices or other 
written records relating to the tax owed; 
didnt find it suspicious that he was paying two individual customer accounts rather 
than HMRC; and
ignored the fact that HSBC werent able to verify that the account names matched 
those Mr P entered when making the payments.  
 As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats far and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of their customers account. However, 
where the customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have considered whether 
HSBC should reimburse some or all of the money Mr P lost in line with the provisions of the 
CRM Code they have signed up to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr P 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. There is no dispute here that Mr P was 
tricked into making the payments. But this is not enough, in and of itself, for Mr P to receive 
a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr P too. 
The CRM Code 
HSBC has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for HSBC to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mr P ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment being made? 
HSBC, in their final response letter to Mr P and in their submissions to this service, referred 
to a warning that Mr P wouldve seen at the point he was making the payments. And under 
the CRM Code, HSBC can be required to present an effective warning where they identify a 
scam risk. But I dont consider that the payments made by Mr P were so out of the ordinary 
that the bank ought to have believed there was a scam risk. The amounts sent werent 
sufficiently unusual in size nor do I consider there to have been any concerning features of 
the payments to put HSBC on notice that Mr P was at risk of financial harm. And so, I dont 
believe HSBC needed to do more than it did in terms of providing warnings about making the 
payment. 
But, as they referred to this warning, for completeness I have considered whether it 
amounted to an effective warning that was ignored by Mr P. Under the provisions of the 
CRM Code, as a minimum any effective warning needs to be understandable, clear, timely, 
impactful and specific. It must also provide information that gives customers a better chance 
to protect themselves against being defrauded and should include appropriate actions for 
customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams. In short  the warning needs to 
be capable of countering the typical features of the generic scam type identified during the 
payment journey. 
I appreciate that Mr P clicked that he was sending the payment to friends and family rather 
than unexpected request from Bank / Police / Organisation. Hes not been able to explain 
what made him pick this one. This meant that the payment journey he took, and the warning 
given, was not linked to unexpected requests from organisations. Mr P did see that HSBC 
were unable to confirm the payee for either of the payments, and was therefore given a 
warning that told him before proceeding with the payment you should contact the beneficiary 
and confirm their account details via a phone number or email from a trusted source. Mr P 
would have had to click continue in order to confirm the payment. 
 I dont consider this to constitute an effective warning because: 
There does not appear to have been any mention in the warning of the 
consequences of proceeding such as saying that the funds might not be recoverable. 
The warning is not specific to the type of scam Mr P fell victim to  it does not 
mention HMRC scams, or any of the hallmarks of this type of scam including number 
spoofing.
The warning does not mention the prevalence of the type of scam Mr P fell victim to. 
For example, it does not stress how the fraudsters will apply pressure and often 
given threats of arrest or prosecution. 
The warning does not mention that checks the consumer may consider or have been 
coached to do would not uncover the scam  such as checking the number they are 
speaking to online as Mr P did in this case. 
I dont underestimate the challenge HSBC faces in providing warnings strong enough to 
break the spell in a sophisticated scam such as this. But the difficulty of meeting that 
challenge does not mean the warnings given by HSBC were sufficient or contained enough 
clarity to meet the minimum requirements in the CRM code. Overall, I am not satisfied that 
the warnings met the requisite criteria here. I dont consider the warnings given were 
effective warnings as defined within the CRM code. It follows that HSBC has not established 
it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning. Even though Ive concluded the warnings were not effective, I appreciate the warning to 
check the payment details independently was relevant to the scam Mr P fell victim to. So, I 
will consider whether Mr Ps decision to move past this warning and continue with the 
payment, in the circumstances of the scam as it was unfolding, was reasonable.  
Did Mr P have a reasonable basis for belief?
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr P had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But it does not persuade me to reach this 
conclusion. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr P failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code and I 
dont consider Mr P lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I say this because: 
Mr P took steps to verify the callers identity. He had checked the number he was 
being called from online and it appeared to be genuine. This is a scam technique 
which is likely to be unknown to a lot of people  and Mr P was clearly unaware of it 
according to his testimony. Without knowledge that numbers can be manipulated in 
this way, Mr P would have taken this as a reason to believe the call was genuine. 
Mr Ps circumstances meant that he was more vulnerable to this type of scam  he 
was reasonably new to the UK having moved here only around 18 months before the 
scam. This meant he had limited experience when it came to taxation matters here, 
given the amount of time he had worked in the country. So, whilst I understand that 
some people who pay tax through the PAYE system would be confused as to why 
they were being asked to pay tax directly  I dont think it is unreasonable that Mr P 
thought he had to pay tax. This was further added to by the spoofed call from the 
fraudsters pretending to be from his employers  he believed that his employers had 
called him to let him know that they had made a mistake and would reimburse him 
money paid out. As Mr P recognised his employers number (not knowing it to be 
spoofed), this call acted as verification from a known and trusted organisation who 
employ him. 
Mr P explained that he was under pressure and panicked. The fraudsters convinced 
him that if he did not pay the sums due within a short space of time, he would be 
arrested and could face court and prison. He also thought his employer could get in 
trouble if he did not pay it  which may have led him to believe that his employment 
would be jeopardised too. I think the fraudsters deliberately tried to create anxiety 
and fear in the hope it would disrupt Mr Ps thought processes and make him more 
compliant. It is important to consider the actions he took against this backdrop. 
Ive thought carefully about what HSBC said about the fact that searching for the 
phone number online would have also brought up numerous warnings from other 
users about the number being used to perpetuate scams  and that he didnt call 
back the institutions himself to verify that he owed taxes. I do appreciate that when 
one searches for the number online, it currently shows that it appears to be the 
correct number for the Royal Courts of Justice on one side of the webpage, but 
shows some user warnings on the other side of the page. But Mr P said he did not 
see these  and I think it is plausible that he saw that it was the verified number and 
in the pressure of the situation didnt read the other entries that appeared on the 
webpage. And I cant say that something he did not see or read should have 
impacted his basis for believing that he was talking to the authorities. 
Ive also considered what HSBC said about the fact he didnt ask for any details 
about the tax liability including what time period it was for, how it had been 
calculated, or why he had not received any written correspondence before the phone 
calls. Ive thought about this alongside the fact that Mr P paid two individuals 
accounts and proceeded despite the fact the confirmation of payee process was 
unable to confirm whether the payee names matched the accounts. Mr P didnt appear to question the lack of paperwork or details of the tax liability. He said he did 
ask why they were going to individual payees, and he was told that they were 
accounts for the relevant government officials. As I explained above, Mr P was not 
familiar with how taxation works here, and it seems he was of the belief that his 
employer had confirmed what he was being told by who he thought were the 
authorities. And whilst he did not call his employer or the authorities back on verified 
numbers, he thought he had already checked he was speaking to them on verified 
numbers. So I think it is reasonable that in the circumstances he thought that the 
need to send the money and payment details were legitimate. 
On balance, I am satisfied that when considering all of the circumstances, Mr Ps response 
was not unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Mr P to think clearly in the moment. 
HSBC was aware of this type of scam at the time Mr P fell victim to it and by not providing a 
relevant warning to him at the time, missed an opportunity to protect him from financial harm. 
In the absence of any warnings on these types of scams from HSBC, Mr P was not alive to 
the possibility he was dealing with a fraudster and this is another reason why I dont think he 
acted unreasonably by engaging with the fraudster and making the payments. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, I am not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that 
when Mr P sent the payments he did so without a reasonable basis for belief. 
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as I 
have explained, I am satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money 
that was lost. So I think it is fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc should: 
Refund the £1,800 lost as the result of the scam; and 
Pay 8% simple interest from the date they declined to refund Mr P under the CRM 
Code until the date of the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman