DRN-3149541
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
There is limited information available about this matter but from what Ive seen, Miss S 
borrowed £3,000 from Madison in August 2016. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of about £237. The total amount repayable was around £5,704.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think there was enough 
information to say that Madison had been wrong to provide Miss S with the loan. Miss Ss 
representatives disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint has not been 
settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ss complaint.
Madison needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss S 
irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
S was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Madison make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
Madison was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Madison had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. 
Madison had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Madison had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period)
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Miss S.
Madison says that Miss S applied for her loan on its website. The lender asked Miss S for 
information about her income and expenditure and acquired a credit report before providing 
the loan. Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan 
was affordable for Miss S.
As Ive explained, there is limited information available about what happened at the time. 
The credit report shows that Miss S had outstanding credit of around £8,623 plus a 
mortgage. I can see there is some adverse information included on the credit report, 
including defaulted accounts from 2013 and 2014 which I think it would have been 
reasonable for Madison to have considered as historic. 
Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate. But Miss S was applying to 
Madison for a costly loan, repayable over an extended two-year period. I would have 
expected the lender to want to obtain a thorough understanding of Miss Ss financial 
circumstances to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan over the whole loan 
term  especially as the credit report showed that she had some outstanding credit which 
she doesnt appear to have taken into account when she calculated her limited outgoings on 
her application. And Miss S doesnt appear to have been asked to supply independent 
evidence of her income such as a wage slip or her expenditure. Overall, I cant fairly say that 
I think Madisons checks were reasonable or proportionate.
However, even if Madison had carried out more in-depth checks at the time, its not clear to 
me whether the lender would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Miss S 
might have difficulty repaying her loan sustainably. Miss S was asked by this Service to 
provide her bank statements or other evidence of her financial position at the time, but she 
hasnt been able to do so. This is understandable, given the time that has passed since Miss 
S took the loan in 2016. However, I cant fairly say, from what Ive seen, that better checks 
ought reasonably to have led Madison to conclude that it shouldnt lend to Miss S. And from 
what Ive seen, I dont think Madison ought simply to have declined the loan application 
based on the information it had gathered.
On the basis of the limited evidence available, I cant fairly say that Madison lent to Miss S 
irresponsibly.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think that Madison treated Miss S unfairly in any 
other way. And as I have explained, on the information provided, I cant fairly say that I think 
Madison ought reasonably to have declined to lend to Miss S. I know Miss S will be 
disappointed by my decision and Im sorry that she experienced difficulties repaying the 
loan.  But Id like to reassure her that I have carefully considered the information that has 
been provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint about 
this loan.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman