DRN-4425051
The complaint
Mr P (represented by Mrs P) says Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly 
rejected a claim he made on his motor insurance policy on the basis that it was false or 
exaggerated and that hed delayed in reporting it. 
What happened
Mr P was away from home on the night of 31 July 2022 with a local sports team. He left his 
car at home. A neighbour called him early in the morning to say shed found it damaged at 
the roadside. The police were with her and spoke to Mr P. He says he cant recall the details 
of the conversation, as he was intoxicated. But the police recorded hed said he was driving 
the car and had an accident in it, and that hed left it to be recovered to a garage. 
A month later, Mr P called the police to say in fact his car had been taken without his 
consent on 31 July 2022 by a friend (Mr A) who was staying at his home address that night 
and that Mr A had caused the damage. He said he wanted the police to charge Mr A. Mr P 
then called Watford for the first time. He said the car had been driven without his consent 
and damaged by Mr A, and that the reason for not reporting the claim sooner was that he 
hoped hed be able to deal with the damage privately. 
Watford noted the police account of what Mr P had said to them initially and declined the 
claim. It said if a claim was made knowing it to be false or exaggerated, it wouldnt be dealt 
with - and that it had the right to cancel or avoid the policy. In addition, it said an incident 
should be reported to it within 24 hours, or any claim arising from it may not be valid. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. She said she didnt think Watford had 
shown that he made a false claim to it or exaggerated his loss. She didnt think his failure to 
report the incident and make a claim immediately was a sufficient basis on which to decline 
the claim either. She thought Watford should reconsider the claim, remove any fraud 
markers, and pay Mr P £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Watford asked 
for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud
I dont think theres evidence that Mr P misled Watford by giving it details of the incident that 
he knew werent true, or made a claim knowing it to be false. He told Watford from the start 
that his car had been taken without his consent and damaged by Mr A. In my opinion, the 
fact that Mr P had already given the police Mr As personal details and had asked them to 
charge him supports the account he gave to Watford. I think it shows he supported the 
prosecution of Mr A, in line with the policys requirement. 
I dont think Watford has shown that Mr P tried to exaggerate the claim either. He didnt say 
hed had a greater loss than was the case  he just wanted it to deal with the damage 
caused to the car. 
I appreciate that the record of Mr Ps initial statement in the police report contradicted the 
account he provided to the police and to Watford later. And it doesnt help that he cant recall 
the details of his first conversation with the police. But I think the police report lacked clarity 
and could have been queried by Watford. Mr P couldnt have been driving the car at the time 
of the accident. It was found shortly afterwards near his home by a neighbour, who knew 
that Mr P was more than 50 miles away with his team mates. She told the police that fact  
and Mr Ps location at the time of the accident could have been confirmed by many others. 
The police report refers to their having visited Mr As home shortly afterwards, where they 
found Mr Ps friends (who denied any knowledge of the incident). There was no explanation 
in the report of why the police went to Mr Ps home when he was away. I think a query could 
have thrown up further relevant information (see below).  
Late reporting of the claim 
The policy says if an incident isnt reported within 24 hours, a claim may not be treated as 
valid. I think that restriction could have an unduly harsh impact on consumers in various 
situations, and I think it would do so in this case. 
In my opinion, Mr P has provided a credible explanation about why he didnt contact Watford 
immediately. He didnt want to make a claim on the policy, as he thought the premium was 
already high  and he hadnt damaged the car. I think he should still have reported the 
incident quickly, but I understand why he didnt. He had to establish who damaged the car, 
as more than one person had stayed overnight at his house. Mr A accepted the blame for 
the accident and agreed to pay for the damage, so Mr P had the car taken to a garage and 
had to wait for a repair estimate. It seems Mr A later reneged on his promise to pay for the 
repairs, which caused further delay. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Watford to rely on the late notification to decline the claim. 
Additional information
Since the investigator issued her view in September 2023, Mr Ps neighbour has provided a 
statement. She says she saw Mr A and another male standing next to Mr Ps damaged car 
at the roadside. She spoke to Mr A, who said hed driven the car to get breakfast and had 
caused an accident. Another driver called the police, as the car was partially blocking the 
road. The neighbour had to leave the scene for a short time. When she returned, Mr A and 
his friend had gone, but the police then arrived. 
Mr Ps neighbour says she reported the conversation shed had with Mr A to the police. She 
told them Mr A was away, but that Mr A and the other male were staying at Mr Ps house. 
The police used the neighbours phone to speak to Mr P. It seems her account is what led 
the police to visit Mr Ps home shortly afterwards (where she spoke to them again). What 
isnt clear is why the police report doesnt refer to either conversation with the neighbour.  
We asked Mrs P why the neighbour only provided a statement recently. She said she, Mr P 
and the neighbour all thought the neighbours conversations with the police would have been 
in the police report (which none of them has seen). When it became clear to them recently 
that it wasnt the case, they all wanted to clarify what had happened. 
In summary
I think its very unfortunate that Watford wasnt made aware of the neighbours evidence, 
which seems to be the result of an omission or confusion on the part of the police. But even without that evidence, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Watford to decline the claim 
and cancel the policy. I dont think theres evidence that Mr P said anything to Watford he 
knew to be untrue, that he made the claim knowing it to be false, or that he exaggerated it. I 
think his delay in reporting the claim was ill-advised, but in my opinion, he provided a 
reasonable explanation for that. 
I think some of Watfords service was poor and that the poor service (plus the fraud marker 
on his record) caused Mr P a great deal of upset and inconvenience. So I think it would be 
fair for it to pay him £300 compensation for that, as well as reconsidering the claim and 
removing any fraud markers.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do the following:
Overturn the policy cancellation and reconsider the claim, subject to the policys 
remaining terms and conditions
Remove any fraud markers from databases / records
Pay Mr P £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman