DRN-4280580
The complaint
Miss D complains about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc when she was tricked 
into making payments on her debit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
In April 2023 Miss D came into contact with a merchant and was invited to join an investment 
group on a messaging platform. In total she made various debit card payments totalling 
around £2,500 but received around £440 in credits back into her account. So, her total loss 
is around £2,000. 
After she wasnt able to withdraw the majority of her profits from the merchants website Miss 
D became suspicious and raised a claim with NatWest. But NatWest said it wasnt going to 
offer a refund to her. So, Miss D brought her complaint to this service. She said the 
payments shouldve been stopped and that she was vulnerable at the time due to her 
personal circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the payments Miss 
D made werent sufficiently unusual for NatWest to have intervened. And because they were 
sent to accounts in her own name at crypto exchanges the money couldnt be recovered via 
a chargeback. He added that as NatWest wasnt aware of Miss Ds personal circumstances 
at the time of the payments then he couldnt fairly expect it to do more. 
Miss D disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She said the payments 
were unusual and NatWest shouldve done more to stop and then warn her about these 
types of payments. If it had then the scam wouldve been stopped. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss D has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly considered whether NatWest shouldve done more to stop all the payments Miss D 
made towards this scam. It is common ground that Miss D authorised the scam payments 
with a total loss of around £2,000. I accept that these were authorised payments even 
though Miss D was the victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Miss D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for NatWest to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I have looked into what this means for this case and whether NatWest should have done 
more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Here, Miss D sent various payments over a matter of weeks to various merchants via 
accounts held in her name with legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. The payments were 
for relatively small amounts, ranging from £300 to £700. I can see from her statements that 
she had made larger payments in the past ranging from £291 and £1,650. And because the 
payments were made over a period of time, they created a pattern of spending on Miss Ds 
account that wouldnt have seemed unusual. So, I dont think the payments were so unusual 
that NatWest shouldve stopped them and asked further questions of Miss D. Because of 
this, I dont think NatWest missed an opportunity to prevent the fraud from taking place. 
And because the payments were sent to accounts in her own name a chargeback couldnt 
be raised by NatWest here. As a result, NatWest didnt treat Miss D unfairly by not raising a 
chargeback. 
I note Miss D has mentioned her personal circumstances and health made her vulnerable at 
the time. I appreciate Miss D was going through a difficult period with her health. However, 
Ive not seen any evidence that NatWest was aware of this at the time of the scam and 
shouldve therefore acted differently. 
Im sorry to hear Miss D has been a victim in this way, but I dont think NatWest are 
responsible for her loss and so I cant fairly ask them to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman