DRN-3376698
The complaint
Mr A complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni Capital) has rejected the 
claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to an 
air source heat pump he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2017 Mr A bought a heat pump for £10,750. The purchase was 
financed with a loan from Omni Capital. It is not in dispute that the heat pump was supplied 
and installed by Green Energy Power Solutions Ltd (GEPS), and that the Omni Capital 
loan agreement named another firm, Green Energy Advisors Ltd, as the credit intermediary. 
The latter company changed its name a few days later to Improveasy Ltd, and so I will refer 
to it by that name.
In 2019 Mr A approached Omni Capital, alleging that the heat pump was not performing as 
well as he had been told it would and that this amounted to a misrepresentation by GEPS. 
He said that Omni Capital was liable for GEPSs actions under section 75 of the Act, and 
asked Omni Capital to rescind the loan agreement and to compensate him.
Omni Capital did not accept that section 75 applied, since it said it had no direct relationship 
with GEPS. Instead, it had paid the loan money to Improveasy, which in turn had then paid 
GEPS. Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr A brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He recognised that GEPS and Improveasy were 
different companies, but he relied on an email Improveasy had sent to Omni Capital which 
said that GEPS had been Improveasys appointed representative and had acted on 
Improveasys behalf. Therefore the investigator concluded that the two companies could be 
treated as one for the purposes of the Act. He accepted that the heat pump had been 
misrepresented to Mr A, and so he recommended that Omni Capital should put matters right 
by re-structuring the loan so as to make the heat pump effectively pay for the loan.
Omni Capital did not agree. It insisted that its relationship with GEPS was not such that 
section 75 could apply to Mr As purchase, and it referred to a final decision by another 
ombudsman in another case, which had said as much. So this case was referred to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the other ombudsmans decision which Omni Capital referred to, but it is not 
about GEPS, and so it was only of limited assistance. I have made up my own mind about 
Omni Capitals connection to GEPS via Improveasy.
Mr A can only have a valid claim under section 75 if his payment was made under a debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement (as defined in other sections of the Act). Here, Mr A is 
the debtor, Omni Capital is the creditor, and the supplier is the company Mr A had a contract 
with, GEPS. His payment would have been made under a DCS agreement if he (or Omni 
Capital on his behalf) had paid the supplier directly. But the money was paid to another 
company, Improveasy, which passed the payment on to the supplier. That usually means 
that section 75 does not apply  even if the company which accepted the payment was 
acting as an agent for the supplier.
There is one exception to this rule. Put as simply as possible, under section 184 of the Act 
two companies are said to be associated with each other if the same people control both 
companies. And under section 187, two associated companies can be treated as if they 
were one and the same company for the purposes of section 75. So if the two companies 
Mr A dealt with were controlled by the same people, then section 75 would apply as if he had 
paid the supplier directly. However, after reviewing the information about these two 
companies published by Companies House, I am satisfied that GEPS and Improveasy were 
not associates of each other.
Mr A may feel  quite understandably  that its unfair that he should be left without the 
protection of the Consumer Credit Act just because the money was paid to GEPS via an 
intermediary. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me to hold Omni Capital liable 
in circumstances where the Act does not apply.
So for the reasons Ive set out above, I am currently not minded to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC did not accept that section 75 did not apply to Mr As purchase. It argued that the 
credit intermediary was irrelevant. It was enough that Mr A was the debtor, Omni Capital was 
the creditor, and GEPS was the supplier.
(The CMC also argued that Omni Capital should have told Mr A in writing that there was a 
credit intermediary. I put this to Omni Capital, which sent me a copy of the pre-contract credit 
information, which I have shared with the CMC. This document gives the credit 
intermediarys details.)
My findings
I remain of the view that section 75 does not apply. I will explain why.
The opening words of section 75(1) are:
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation
Here, the debtor means Mr A, the creditor means Omni Capital, and the supplier means 
GEPS.
The relevant words of section 12 are (emphasis added):A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is
(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which  is made by the creditor under 
pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier, or
(c) an unrestricted-use credit agreement which is made by the creditor under 
pre-existing arrangements between himself and a person (the supplier) 
other than the debtor in the knowledge that the credit is to be used to 
finance a transaction between the debtor and the supplier.
Mr As loan agreement was a restricted-use credit agreement, so paragraph (b) is relevant in 
this case. It requires that the agreement is made under pre-existing arrangements between 
Omni Capital and GEPS, but that requirement does not appear to be fulfilled in this case. 
Instead, the agreement was made under arrangements between Omni Capital and 
Improveasy. That means that if Mr A had a claim against Improveasy for breach of contract, 
then section 75 would make Omni Capital liable for that too. But section 75 does not operate 
to make Omni Capital liable for what GEPS did.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the CMC, on 
behalf of Mr A, to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman