DRN-3204033
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined her claim for reimbursement of 
payments on her account she says she didnt make.
What happened
Ms G says she doesnt recognise 13 monthly payments on her account totalling £1,799.21. 
The payments were made between 24 March 2016 and 21 March 2017, all to the same 
third-party company.
Lloyds couldnt confirm how the transactions were made because of the time that passed 
between the payments (2016) and when Ms G reported them to Lloyds as fraudulent (2020). 
But, it did say the payments looks like a subscription of some kind, because they were each 
made around the same time each month. It said the payments stopped in March 2017, which 
would have required somebody to take action to stop the payments, that the payments were 
made over two different debit cards, and that Lloyds couldnt identify when Ms Gs payment 
details were compromised, in order to allow a fraudster to create the payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. She said it looked like a continuous 
payment authority (CPA) had been set up, meaning the details on Ms Gs card had been 
entered into a website, and noted that the payments spanned across two cards, including a 
new card that was issued to Ms G sometime around January 2020, with a new PIN being 
issued around the same time too.
She said whoever setup the CPA would have needed personal details such as Ms Gs 
address and date of birth, and that she hadnt seen anything to explain how those details 
could have been compromised.
She thought the pattern of transactions was unusual in a fraud claim because they were 
spread out over a long time (12 months), that it was unusual Ms G hadnt noticed the 
transactions, particularly given shed raised a separate fraud claim in 2019, and that Ms G 
hadnt disputed a previous transaction made to the same third party company.
Ms G didnt agree. She said shed been unwell at the time, and that it wouldnt be fair for the 
bank to hold her liable for the transactions if she had authorised them herself. And that she 
thought the differing amounts suggested the transactions didnt relate to a subscription. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, if Im to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Ms G didnt 
authorise the transactions herself. That is to say that she didnt make the transactions 
herself, or give someone permission to make the transactions.
I agree with our investigator that the payments in dispute dont fit what you might call a 
normal pattern of fraud. Typically, when a fraudster obtains someones card details, they 
would usually look to spend as much money as possible, in a short space of time. Further, 
while its not uncommon for someone to lose their card and for it to end up in the hands of a 
fraudster, it would be unlikely for that to happen with two cards, as was the case here. And 
while that doesnt necessarily mean the transactions were made by an unknown party, on 
the balance of probabilities, I think its likely that they werent. So, Im not persuaded Ms G 
was defrauded by an unknown third party.
However, its entirely possible that someone known to Ms G made the transactions. Shes 
said she regularly gives her card to three people in her family and friends and that she 
doesnt regularly check her statements. So, its possible that the transactions were made by 
one of those people, without Ms Gs consent.
In this case, I think its more likely than not that either Ms G made the transactions herself, or 
that they were made by someone Ms G had given her card to, either with Ms Gs permission 
to make the payments, or not. 
I say that because Ms G hasnt been able to explain how both cards used to make the 
payments would have fallen into the hands of an unknown fraudster, and because Ms G has 
told our Service that she regularly gives her card to three people she knows.
If Ms G made the transactions herself, clearly I cant say she was defrauded. But I also dont 
think it would be fair to hold Lloyds liable for the payments, if they were made by one of the 
third parties Ms G had given her card to. If this was the case, my view would be that the third 
parties had apparent authority to carry out the transactions on Ms Gs behalf. That is to say 
that she had given her card away, and I cant reasonably hold Lloyds liable in light of that, 
even if Ms G hadnt expressly authorised the payments in question. And I havent seen 
anything to demonstrate that Ms G took sufficient actions to withdraw that authority.
It's also unusual that the transactions went unnoticed for so long. Ms G made a separate 
fraud claim to Lloyds a year before she raised this one, at which point I might have expected 
Ms G to identify 13 additional transactions, given she now says she didnt make them 
herself, and that she doesnt recognise the payee. All of which lends further support to the 
probability that either Ms G made them herself, or authorised someone else to make them 
on her behalf.
While Im sympathetic Ms G was unwell during this time, that doesnt change my outcome as 
Ive still seen no evidence to demonstrate Ms G didnt authorise the transactions, or did 
enough to withdraw authority to make transactions to any party she gave her card to.
Because I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that Ms G didnt authorise the 
transactions, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman