DRN-3407779
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation
to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that he held. Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr Ms DB scheme benefits to a personal pension so that he could take a tax-free 
cash lump sum and an income via an annuity on an insistent client basis. Mr M says Portal 
provided him with negligent advice, which has resulted in a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr M approached Portal in 2014 in response to an advert to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs.
On 13 March 2014 Portal arranged to speak with Mr M by phone to carry out a fact-finding 
exercise to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. My 
understanding is that Portal would also have carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to 
risk. Unfortunately Portal hasnt provided a copy of the fact-find, so I dont know all of Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time  but Portal says the assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk was 
cautious, which hasnt been disputed. 
On 14 March 2014  and again on 9 May 2014 - Portal sent Mr M a letter saying that it 
recommended he didnt transfer his DB pension scheme benefits because of the guarantees 
and benefits that he would be giving up. It said that the growth rate required to match his 
guaranteed benefits available from his DB scheme at age 65  a pension of around £880 a 
year  was 20%. But Portal said it could still help Mr M if he wanted to go ahead and it asked 
him to complete and return the enclosed insistent client form.
It is assumed that Mr M returned his insistent client form, although Portal hasnt provided a 
copy Mr Ms signed form. But looking at the file copy, Mr M was asked to confirm that he 
acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve the required growth rate and that he 
was giving up guaranteed benefits.
On 16 May 2014 Portal sent Mr M a suitability report setting out its advice. The report
outlined Mr Ms circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was 59; he was 
employed; he was renting his home; he had no assets or liabilities; and he had a disposable 
income of around £550 a month, which was used for general living costs.
The report went on to set out the details of Mr Ms existing DB pension scheme, which
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mr M could expect from his scheme at
age 65. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr Ms existing scheme benefits was
20%.
The report said that Mr Ms objective was to access his pension benefits to go on holiday.
Portal noted that it had explored with Mr M other ways to generate the money required to
meet his objective - but said that he didnt have enough assets to raise the money required,
he didnt want to use his disposable income and he didnt want to take on further lending or 
pay any interest.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended
that Mr M shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would
be giving up  but it said that Mr M had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr M transfer his pension and 
take out an annuity to enable him to meet his objective.
Mr M signed the relevant application forms and the transfer went ahead. Mr M
subsequently received his tax-free cash payment and an annuity was set up paying around 
£30 a month.
In 2021 Mr M complained to Portal, via a representative about the advice he received.
Portal considered the complaint and issued its final response to Mr M in June 2021. In 
summary it said that it had provided suitable advice and had acted in Mr Ms best interests. It
said that it had recommended Mr M not to transfer the benefits from his DB scheme because
of the guaranteed benefits it provided. It said that it fully explained the risks involved and that
Mr M was better off remaining in his DB scheme  it also said it discussed the alternative 
ways of generating cash. But it said that Mr M insisted on going ahead against the advice, so 
it treated him as an insistent client and facilitated the transfer.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they
concluded that his complaint should be upheld. In summary they said that Portal hadnt
acted fairly towards Mr M and they didnt think he was a true insistent client. They said Portal
only provided Mr M with its suitability report and the reasons why he shouldnt transfer out of
his DB pension scheme after hed signed the insistent client form, so they didnt think Portal
had given him enough information to make that decision. They said the insistent client form 
was a template  it wasnt in Mr Ms own words. And they thought Mr M wouldve been 
confused by being told not to transfer at the same time as being given the opportunity to go 
ahead anyway. They also said this was contradictory. In conclusion they said Mr M had a 
cautious attitude to risk and they didnt think he wouldve risked his guaranteed pension for a 
holiday had the risks been properly explained or had the alternative ways of meeting his 
objective been properly considered.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said:
It is incorrect to say that advice was given by phone  a telephone assessment was 
carried out to establish Mr Ms circumstances and objectives, which was then passed 
to the adviser for their consideration.
The regulators guidelines around insistent clients, which the investigator referred to 
in their assessment, were not in place at the time of the advice.
it advised against the transfer and clearly explained this to Mr M.
Mr M made an informed decision to disregard the recommendation provided to him 
choosing to be an insistent client.
The correct process was followed and Portal facilitated the transfer for Mr M.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
 
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here. 
 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
 
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
 
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. 
 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. 
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr M as an insistent client - this is a
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients  as Portal has pointed out. But the COBS rules in the regulators Handbook 
required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr M had to have 
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Portal says that it followed the correct process  it provided suitable advice which Mr M 
disregarded so it facilitated the transfer for Mr M on that basis. Mr M says that he didnt 
realise he was acting as an insistent client  this wasnt explained to him and he wasnt told 
what this would mean in terms of giving up any right or benefits.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Ms best interests. And
I think Mr M likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending he should
go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 14 March 2014, following the telephone discussion Portal had with Mr M about his pension options, it sent him what I think can only reasonably be described as 
a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to 
match Mr Ms guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and because hed be giving up 
those guaranteed benefits, it recommended he should not transfer away from his DB 
scheme to access his pension benefits. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the
transfer was not in Mr Ms best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr M had
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests. 
The critical yield wasnt explained and there was nothing here about what retirement income 
Mr M could achieve by transferring.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr M should not
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr M needed to complete
and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. 
As I referred to earlier on, Portal sent Mr M a second brief letter on 9 May 2014  again 
setting out the outcome of its advice. Its not clear what prompted this, but it appears 
contradictory and I think is likely to have caused Mr M some confusion. I say this because, 
while the first page of the letter says the same thing as the March letter  that is its 
recommendation was not to transfer because of the growth rate required - underneath the 
brief summary it says that Our recommendation (Option 1) is that Mr M take his benefits 
immediately by taking out an annuity. The second option, which Portal said would mean 
Mr M is treated as an insistent client, is for Mr M to take a tax-free cash sum and use the 
residual amount to purchase an annuity. The third option was to do nothing.
Mr M has told us he didnt understand that he was being treated as an insistent client. And 
based on the above, I can see why Mr M was likely to have been confused by Portals 
communication  its not clear to me whether at this stage Portal was recommending Mr M 
transfer or not. Either way it strikes me that Portals process here was geared towards 
facilitating the transfer regardless.
But on the basis that Portals advice was not for Mr M to transfer, I think if Portal firmly 
believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Ms best interests, not 
only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis on the reasons 
why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interests, it also wouldnt have told him at the same 
time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how he could put it aside and 
bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr M could ignore Portals 
recommendation was unfair to him and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal
made it very easy for him to do so. 
I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed on this, coupled with the confusing 
second letter I described above, that Mr M could reasonably have interpreted this overall that 
Portal was recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr M had little knowledge or experience of
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For examplethe suitability letter doesnt record that Mr M had any investment experience, so it appears 
he was a complete novice in this regard. Im mindful too that Portal appears to have had 
deemed Mr Ms attitude to risk to be cautious. I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that 
it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route.
Portal hasnt provided a signed copy of Mr Ms insistent client form - albeit I think its 
reasonable to assume that he signed and returned the necessary paperwork to allow Portal 
to go ahead. But looking at Portals file copy, the insistent client form Mr M likely signed was 
a template. It wasnt in his own words. Given Mr Ms level of experience, I think it wouldve 
been important for Portal to ensure Mr M understood what he was getting into, and a good 
way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that he understood the 
recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed. In the absence of this, and 
because Mr M hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report and had time to read and 
digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway, Im not persuaded Mr M was able to make an 
informed choice here. And I dont think this document alone is sufficient to show that Mr M 
was an insistent client.
It was only after receiving Mr Ms confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer
that Portal sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation not
to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was immediately followed by a contradictory positive 
recommendation, advising Mr M to transfer his benefits to purchase an annuity. And this was 
all set out under a heading titled Mr recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr M
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr M advice on the advice to
transfer, and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability
report after securing Mr Ms confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr M transfer his benefits to a particular arrangement or scheme, 
not only did this completely undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has 
effectively recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that 
transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal arrangement was in Mr Ms best interests, it
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable
for him. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full
suitability report Mr M likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB
scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so; particularly given my finding earlier on 
about the confusing second summary letter Portal sent Mr M about its advice.
Mr Ms objective for accessing his pension benefits early was to go on holiday. Mr M told us 
that he only spent around £800 on a holiday. He says the rest was spent on making home 
improvements because he had the money, not because the improvements were essential or 
had been planned. It strikes me that Mr M was therefore likely seduced by the sum of money 
he was told he could gain access to at the start of Portals advice process  not because he 
really needed it.
So I think it appears that Mr Ms real need was for a lump sum of £800  not the £3,000 he 
ended up accessing. And because of the amount Mr M actually needed, I dont think his 
objective could only reasonably be met by transferring his benefits out of his DB scheme. 
Yet I think Mr M likely went ahead with the transfer because he believed this to be the case 
and that it seemed like a good idea.
I say this because Portals recommendation letter says that it discussed alternative courses 
of action with Mr M to meet his objective and it gave the reasons why these were 
discounted. One of these alternatives was borrowing the money. Portal recorded that this was rejected because Mr M didnt wish to take on further lending or pay any interest. But not 
only did Mr M not have any existing lending as documented earlier on in its suitability letter, I 
think its likely Portal discussed this option in the context of him borrowing £3,000 not the 
£800 I think he really needed. Had it done so I think this was a realistic option that Portal 
should have explored with Mr M in more detail  particularly given it appears that Mr M had 
disposable income suggesting borrowing the money was likely affordable.
Portal also documented that it discussed with Mr M him using his disposable income, but 
that he didnt want to use it. Again, in the context of Mr M only needing £800 to fund a 
holiday, I think this too was a realistic alternative which Portals ought to have explored with 
him in greater detail before facilitating an irreversible transaction to transfer his pension.   
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the
rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due
care and skill and in Mr Ms best interests. Portals role was to discern what Mr Ms wants 
and needs were and why he wanted to transfer his pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate 
what Mr M wanted. But by seeking not to understand Mr Ms objective fully and what he was 
really trying to achieve before carrying things out, Im not persuaded this was acting in 
Mr Ms best interests.
Ultimately I dont think Mr M was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me
that he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea
and this was the only way to meet his objective. Portal failed to properly understand what 
Mr M needed and in my view all too readily discounted the more suitable alternatives that 
were readily available to him to meet his need. Furthermore, and in my view crucially, I think 
Portal gave Mr M a positive recommendation to transfer out of the scheme, which in the 
circumstances I think wouldve given him the impression that Portal agreed with his 
approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr M can truly be regarded as an insistent
client. I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that Mr M was an insistent client.
Portals overall communication with Mr M wasnt clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr Ms best
interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether
Mr M wouldve still gone ahead.
Having done so, I think if Portal had acted in Mr Ms best interests providing a 
recommendation on the suitability of the whole transaction envisaged at the outset, and 
addressing Mr Ms true objective at the time, Mr M would not most likely have insisted on 
going ahead with the transfer. As I set out above, I dont consider Mr M was an experienced 
investor who possessed the requisite knowledge, skill and confidence to knowingly go 
against the advice he was given. I think Mr M relied solely on the advice and process Portal 
employed.
So if things had happened as they should have, and if Portal had emphasised the 
importance of these funds to Mr Ms future retirement, I think its unlikely he wouldve 
insisted on accessing them. I dont think Mr M wouldve gone ahead and transferred in any 
event.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr M has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr M couldve taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at
age 65. So I think if Mr M had remained in his DB scheme he wouldve most likely
accessed them at this point. So, compensation should be based on his schemes normal
retirement age of 65.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date BUSINESS receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
To note - if the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above. I 
additionally require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial
Services LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman