DRN-2479237
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was misled into taking out a loan agreement with Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited to finance the supply and installation of replacement windows.  
What happened
In June 2018 Mr A signed a loan agreement with Omni Capital. He was to borrow £5,640 
over ten years, to be repaid at a little over £70 a month. Interest would be charged at an 
annual percentage rate of 9.90% and the total amount payable was nearly £8,700. 
The loan had been arranged by a supplier of windows, which Ill call S, under arrangements 
it had with Omni Capital. S is no longer trading. Mr A has explained however that he felt 
pressured by S into agreeing to buy the windows and take out the loan. Specifically, he was 
initially quoted a high price, which was then reduced, and was encouraged to secure an 
early installation date by paying a deposit there and then.  
When Mr A received a statement of the loan account after about a year, however, he was 
surprised to see that his balance had only reduced by a small amount and that more than 
half of the monthly payments he had made were used to pay interest on the loan. 
Mr A decided to pay off the loan in November 2019. The balance of the loan was just over 
£7,500 at that point, and the settlement figure a little over £5,000.
Mr A complained to Omni Finance and then to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered the complaint. He was not persuaded that Mr A had been misled about the 
agreement. Its terms were clearly set out and Mr A had agreed to them. Mr A did not accept 
the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr A was misled about the terms of the loan 
agreement. They were set out in the agreement itself in a way which was clear and 
unambiguous  and which met the requirements of the Consumer Credit (Agreements) 
Regulations 2010, which set out what information must be included in regulated credit 
agreements. 
I can understand that Mr A was surprised at how little the loan had reduced and how much 
interest he was paying. At 9.90% APR, the interest rate was not especially high, but the loan 
was for ten years, so the total amount payable over its life was some £3,000 more than the 
amount paid to S for the windows. All of that information was, however, clearly set out in the 
loan agreement. 
I note what Mr A says about the sales techniques used by S. The Consumer Protection from 
Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 say that certain commercial practices are unfair. The 
practices listed in Schedule 1 to the regulations include falsely stating that a product is only 
available for a very limited time or only available on certain terms for a very limited time. Mr 
As account of events suggest that S may have been guilty of doing just that  although S 
has not been able to provide its version of events. However, regulation 29 says expressly 
that a contract is not void or unenforceable solely because of a breach of the regulations. 
In any event, I think that the loan agreement itself was clear and I dont believe I can fairly 
say that Mr A was misled about its terms or about the terms on which the windows were to 
be supplied and fitted.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
19 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman