DRN-2088457
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, wont refund disputed 
transactions made from her account. 
What happened
Miss H pre-ordered a car via a car hire company Ill call B for a trip to South Africa in 
December 2019. On arrival on the 3 December 2019 Miss H explains she asked the member 
of staff at B if no other extras had been added on and he said no. So she signed the 
agreement. But she was charged for every extra insurance add on and paid almost £250 in 
extras. 
Miss H contacted B and Halifax to complain about the additional charges, and explained she 
didnt consent to them. Halifax didnt uphold her complaint, and explained they thought that 
Miss H authorised the disputed transaction as she signed the contract.
 
Miss H didnt accept Halifaxs conclusion so complained to our service. She explained that 
shes familiar with the process of car hire and queried whether she had Section 75 
protection. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint. But they didnt uphold it. They were 
satisfied looking at the contract and invoice Miss H signed that she agreed to the additional 
extras, including a satellite navigation system and a child safety seat. And because shed 
signed the agreement, Miss H had authorised the transactions. 
Miss H didnt accept our investigators view. Although she accepted that the satellite 
navigation was an additional extra she purchased at the counter, Miss H queried the waiver 
protection policy and explained she didnt consent to this. 
As Miss H didnt agree to our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Miss H liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Miss Hs genuine card number and signature 
was used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that 
is not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss H consented to the 
transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Miss H 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
I understand Miss Hs argument that she didnt consent to the additional charges. And I 
appreciate that Miss H advises she was informed by Bs staff that no additional extras were 
added on  however I need to look at the evidence available to me. 
Ive looked at the rental agreement supplied by B and the invoice. The rental agreement 
shows the estimated charges Miss H was expecting to pay and the invoice the charge 
Miss H actually received. These charges are for the same amount. I can also see Miss Hs 
signature on both the Rental Agreement and the invoice, which I find surprising. Miss H 
hasnt disputed that she signed either the agreement or the invoice. If Miss H didnt consent 
to additional charges Id have expected her to query this at the time  and see some record 
of this on the paperwork. But this isnt the case. Miss H explains that she spoke with the 
member of staff at B who confirmed no other additional extras had been added on. Im 
unable to determine whether this happened or not but as the card holder authorising the 
payment its Miss Hs responsibility to check any charges shes agreeing to. 
Ive also moved on to consider what the additional charges were for. 
I can see on the Rental Agreement two additional extras were recorded, one of which was a 
Child safety seat. Miss H has explained that she paid for the child safety seat as part of the 
pre-payment, prior to her arrival in South Africa. However, Im afraid the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt support this. On the booking email Miss H has provided its clearly stated Payable at 
desk child toddler seat  £23.96.
The second additional extra noted was for a GPS unit. Miss H has accepted that she asked 
for the satellite navigation device on arrival at B, and it follows she therefore cant have paid 
for this as part of her pre-payment. 
I understand that this will be frustrating to Miss H but by signing both the Rental agreement 
and invoice Miss H Im satisfied authorised the additional charges. 
Miss H has also raised the possibility of Section 75 protection  and its true Miss H would be 
eligible for this, having paid for the car hire via her credit card. However Im in agreement 
with our investigator here  I wouldnt have expected Halifax to raise a Section 75 claim 
because theres no reasonable prospect of success. I say this because for a Section 75 
claim to be successful there has to have been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
B. And Ive not seen any evidence this is the case. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Miss H but on balance Im satisfied she authorised the 
disputed transaction, and therefore Halifax are entitled to hold her liable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman