The complaint
Ms K says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that she couldnt afford the loan repayments at the time of sale. She thinks Sunny 
shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
Ms K also thinks that Sunny shouldnt have added a default notice to her credit file when she 
couldnt make the loan repayments. And she thinks that Sunny should now remove this. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Ks complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. 
These form part of this final decision. 
Excerpt from my provisional decision
This complaint is about one running credit account Sunny provided to Ms K on 22 August 
2014. The credit limit for this account was £750. Ms K made 13 drawdowns from the account 
of a total of £1,145.82 between the 12 and 29 August 2014. She didnt make any drawdowns 
after this.
Ms K had problems making the loan repayments. She contacted Sunny on 6 November 
2014 and informed it that she was in a debt management plan. Sunny placed the account on 
hold for around a month.
Sunny says that it didnt hear from Ms K, or her debt management plan provider, so it sent a 
notice of default on 23 December 2015. I havent been able to see a copy of the default 
letter. But the information both sides have provided, and the credit report, support that it was 
sent.
Sunny says that this letter said that a default would be recorded on Ms Ks credit file if she 
wasnt able to make some form of repayment within 21 days. Sunny says Ms K didnt contact 
it within this time and the loan was marked as in default.
Sunnys records show that Ms K contacted it on 15 January 2015 and said that she was able 
to make some repayments to the loan. An arrangement to pay was put in place and Ms K 
repaid the loan over the forthcoming year.
DRN-1811962Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ks complaint. Ive provisionally decided to uphold Ms 
Ks complaint and Ive explained why below.
Why I dont think Sunnys checks were proportionate before lending
The loan that Ms K took had a credit limit of £750 and it didnt have a fixed end date. 
However, the credit agreement showed that Ms K would repay around £260 a month for five 
months if she borrowed the maximum amount.
It seems Sunny obtained some information from Ms K about her income before deciding to 
lend to her. It recorded this as being £1,600 per month. As far as I can see Sunny didnt ask 
about, or obtain any further information regarding, Ms Ks expenditure. Or at least it hasnt 
been able to show what it found out about this. Sunny also says it carried out a credit history 
check for Ms K  although it also hasnt provided the results of this.
Given the lack of information, I cant be sure about what Sunny knew about Ms Ks 
expenditure before it approved the loan. But I have seen a copy Ms Ks banks statements 
from shortly before the time of lending. Whilst I accept that Sunny may not have seen these 
at the time I think its likely, as Sunny says it carried out a credit check, that it wouldve been 
aware of at least some of the information Ive seen on these.
The bank statements show that Ms K was having problems managing her money. Its difficult 
to accurately say what her regular expenditure was but I can see regular outgoings on things 
such as rent, utility bills, food and travel. She also had some longer term debts. These lookto be significant and not far short of her income. And I can see that at times she was 
struggling to pay these regular bills.
And its also clear that Ms K was using other short term lenders. And she had been 
borrowing and repaying significant amounts to these for some time.
I think that Sunny wouldve found out this information if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. And I think Sunny wouldve seen Ms K wouldnt have been able repay this loan in a 
sustainable way. As eventually did happen. So I think that Sunny shouldnt have given this 
loan to Ms K and I think shes lost out as a result of this. So Im intending to uphold Ms Ks 
complaint about this loan.
The default notice
Ive concluded that Sunny shouldnt have approved this loan and I think it should put things 
right as Ive outlined below. This includes removing any negative information about the loan 
from Ms Ks credit file. So I wont specifically comment on Ms K's complaint relating to the 
default notice as the remedy below makes this unnecessary.
End of excerpt
Sunny, and Ms K, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Ms K agreed 
with my provisional decision. Sunny didnt have anything to add after it had seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunny and Ms K didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Ms K paid on the loan she took;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about this loan from Ms Ks credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman