DRN-2093670
The complaint
Miss L says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty lent to her irresponsibly. She says her debt 
problems got worse over time and Drafty shouldve seen this and not lent to her.  
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account provided to Miss L on 9 June 2016. The 
arrangement had a credit limit of £1,050. Miss L drew down the full amount straight away 
and continued to make repayments and withdrawals from it. Miss L would typically make the 
minimum repayments and then withdraw as much as she could again a short time later. 
On 25 April 2018 Drafty increased Miss Ls credit limit to £1,250. And Miss L continued to 
use the account in the same way. I understand Miss L fell into financial difficulty and she has 
been unable to consistently make repayments to the account. Drafty says the account still 
has an outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Drafty was wrong to approve 
the initial lending. But he thought Drafty shouldnt have approved any further lending after 
the drawdown made on 29 August 2017. This is because Ms L had been using the facility for 
some time at this point and she seemed to be having difficulty reducing the balance.  
Miss L agreed in principle with this as fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Drafty also agreed with the adjudicators findings and made an offer to settle the complaint. It 
offered to refund all of the interest and charges Miss L had paid since August 2017. It 
calculated this to be £1,038.92 (plus interest at 8% simple). It said Miss L had an 
outstanding balance of £1,063.05 which it would reduce to £29.74.
Miss L didnt accept this offer as she thought she had paid around twice this amount of 
interest. 
After looking at the statements Drafty had provided our adjudicator asked for clarification 
about how it had made the compensation calculation. Drafty didnt respond to our 
adjudicators request, or revise the offer it had made. So as no agreement has been reached 
the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
Our adjudicator said that Drafty shouldnt have approved any lending in Miss Ls account 
after 29 August 2017. Having looked at all the information provided I agree this is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint. I wont comment any further on this as both parties to the complaint 
have reached agreement about it. 
And having looked at the correspondence after the offer was made, and compared this with 
the statement of accounts Drafty has provided, it does look like Drafty may have calculated 
the compensation incorrectly. Although I cant be certain of this as it hasnt provided an 
explanation of how it has calculated the compensation. 
And to be clear the compensation should refund any interest and charges made on the 
withdrawals from 29 August 2017. This may be less than the total interest charges applied 
after this time as some of this interest will be due to earlier withdrawals. 
So my decision is essentially that Drafty should calculate and pay the agreed compensation 
correctly. And it should provide Miss L with a breakdown of the compensation so she can 
check this against the statements that she has. Drafty should put right any errors it has 
made. 
Putting things right
Drafty shouldnt have given Miss L any lending from 29 August 2017.
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debts Drafty should buy these back if Drafty is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Drafty is not able to buy the debts back then Drafty 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Drafty should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Drafty has already refunded.
B) Drafty should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss L 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Drafty should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss L having made 
overpayments then Drafty should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Drafty should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss L. However if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss L. Drafty shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Drafty should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file in relation 
to any lending from 29 August 2017. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Miss L a certificate showing how much tax Drafty has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman