DRN-2351966
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002 alongside a personal loan. Mr and Mrs B says Nationwide Building society mis-
sold them PPI.
background
  
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mr and Mrs B applied for their loan by telephone. Nationwide no longer has a copy of the 
telephone call recording, which I dont think is unreasonable considering it was around 
19 years ago. It has been able to give me a copy of the loan agreement that Mr and    
Mrs B signed. In this, the overall cost of the loan was set out, and beside it was a column 
titled optional credit insurance, which is another name for PPI. This set out the separate 
cost of the PPI loan, including the interest payable, overall cost and monthly payments. 
Looking at this, I think it was clear that it was a separate, optional product to the loan. 
Beneath this, it highlighted the Mr B was the insured party and that it covered him for 
sickness and unemployment. Both Mr and Mrs B signed the form to agree to its contents. 
On balance, I think its more likely they agreed to take out PPI, knowing they didnt have 
to.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B - so it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs B enough clear 
and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B  for example 
he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. I note that Mr B 
worked two jobs, but I note his second job was a zero-hour contract and that he did work 
here and there as needed. So I dont think this would have affected his ability to claim 
on the policy. 
In addition, I can see that Mr M had a medical issue around seven years before he took 
out the policy. But I dont think better information about the pre-existing medical 
exclusion would have made him change his mind. I say this because it appears this was 
a stand-alone injury that didnt have any recurring issues that were affecting him around 
the time of the sale. And the policy wasnt too dissimilar to what Mr and Mrs B 
reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given. There were 
also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover 
had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman