DRN-4003723
The complaint
Mr C complains about RAC Insurance Limiteds settlement of his claim under his European 
Breakdown Cover Policy and about its service.
What happened
Mr C took out a European Breakdown Cover Policy to cover his trip to Europe with his wife. 
His vehicle broke down the first day of the holiday and RAC attended and took the vehicle. 
The vehicle couldnt be repaired before the trip ended so RAC arranged a replacement hire 
vehicle on the same day until Mr Cs return date of 22 September 2022. RAC agreed to 
repatriate his vehicle which was returned to Mr C in the UK on 31 October 2022.
Mr C complained to RAC about its poor service and that it hadnt paid all his costs. RAC 
accepted there were problems with its service and paid £200 in compensation for Mr Cs 
distress and inconvenience. RAC also paid £205 for his taxi costs and £100 for the cost of 
the replacement return ticket. RAC said the cost of the original booked return ticket wasnt 
covered by the policy terms.
Mr C complained to us. In summary he said:
Hed understood the policy said RAC would help with getting him and his vehicle 
home but he had to organise his return journey home and pay for it up front. RAC 
had reimbursed only some of the costs. 
RAC took nine weeks from the vehicles breakdown to return his vehicle which was 
an unreasonable delay. The vehicle was only returned after he made many calls to 
RAC.
The above points showed that the insurance policy wasnt fit for purposes and was 
mis-sold. 
Mr C wanted RAC to pay him about £2,700 for:
Compensation for the loss of use of his vehicle for the six weeks from his return to 
the UK to the vehicle being returned.
The cost of the policy, which he believes was mis-sold to him.
The cost of the original return ticket which he couldnt use as RAC didnt agree to him 
taking the hire vehicle to the UK so he had to get a foot passenger ticket.
Cost of storage, and loss of use, of some of the luggage which he couldnt carry as a 
foot passenger.
Cost of the loss of several days holiday as he and his wife spent a lot of time on the 
phone to RAC trying to organise the return journey and repatriation of his vehicle and 
on booking the return journey.
More compensation for the stress and inconvenience RAC caused as the whole 
experience meant he and his wife didnt enjoy the holiday.
Our investigator said RAC had fairly settled the claim and if Mr C wanted us to consider if the  
policy has been mis-sold he would need to make a separate complaint. She recommended 
RAC pay a further £200 in compensation (so £400 in total) for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor service had caused Mr C.
RAC said the recommendation to pay £400 compensation was much more than wed told it 
to pay in a similar case, but it accepted this recommendation.  
Mr C didnt accept the recommendation and wanted an ombudsmans decision. He added:
He estimated that he and his wife had spent about four half days of their holiday 
trying to sort out the issues. The cost of their hotel was about £300 a day so he 
wanted £600 compensation for loss of holiday.
The £100 payment RAC made for his return journey home was less expensive than 
his £129 original booked return journey so he was out of pocket for that journey cost. 
He said RAC should have allowed him to take the hire vehicle into the UK as that 
would have been the easiest and cheapest option for him and RAC. 
So RAC should pay him £729 plus the additional £200 our investigator suggested in 
addition to the £200 RAC had already paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I partly uphold this complaint. I think RAC fairly settled Mr Cs claim for costs but I dont think 
its original offer of £200 compensation for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience  was enough. 
Im satisfied that our investigators recommendation for a further £200 compensation, giving 
total compensation of £400, is a reasonable amount for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience 
due to RACs unfair service. Ill explain why.
Mr C wants RAC to refund the cost of the policy as he believes the policy was mis-sold to 
him. Our investigator has correctly explained that if Mr C wants to pursue his concerns that 
the policy was mis-sold he will need to make a separate complaint to the seller of the policy  
and, if agreement cant be reached, ultimately to us. Its fair for me to tell Mr C that as hes 
made a successful claim on the policy it seems to me that were unlikely to say the policy 
was mis-sold. 
Insurance policies dont cover every situation a policyholder may find themselves in or cover 
every cost they incur. The policy terms set out what events and costs an insurer is prepared 
to cover.
Mr Cs policy terms and conditions say:
Section 4: Missed connection
...
CoveredIf we attend a breakdown under Sections 1 or 3 and you miss your pre-booked 
connection, we will reimburse you for the costs of a replacement standard class ticket 
to allow the passengers to continue the journey.
Not Covered
1. The cost of
c. the original travel ticket.
I think thats the section of the policy which best fits the situation and RAC paid for Mr Cs 
£100 replacement return ticket. Mr C also wants it to pay the £129 cost of his original return 
ticket. But Mr C would always have had to pay for a return journey irrespective of his 
vehicles break down. And although RAC paid £29 less for the replacement return journey 
the policy terms are clear that RAC wont cover the cost of the original travel ticket.
Mr C says if RAC had let him take the hire vehicle to the UK he could have used the original 
return ticket and also wouldnt have had the inconvenience of the taxi arranged to take him 
from the port to home not turning up. He says if hed had the hire vehicle he could have 
brought back the luggage he had to leave in France.
From RACs call notes made at the time I cant see that Mr C asked RAC if he could take the 
hire vehicle he had in Europe to the UK, so Ive seen no evidence to support that RAC 
refused his request. RAC paid for the taxi from the port to Mr Cs home and I think RAC has 
paid what its required to pay under the policy terms to get Mr C home. Theres no basis for 
me to reasonably say that RAC should pay for the cost of Mr Cs original return ticket or the 
£29 balance.
Mr C wants RAC to pay the cost of storage abroad of some of his luggage and for loss of 
use of the luggage. Ive seen the claim form Mr C completed and he didnt include a claim for 
those costs. Ive also seen a note in RACs notes of a phone call on 14 September 2022 
where Mr C told RAC that he was leaving luggage with a friend in France to be collected 
later. Theres no evidence that Mr C had to pay any storage costs. Even if Mr C did have 
luggage storage costs they wouldnt be covered by the policy terms as the policy says:
You are responsible at all times for the care of your personal belongings, valuables, 
luggage, goods, vehicles, and boats in or on a vehicle. We will not be responsible for 
any loss of or damage to them. 
Overall Im satisfied that RAC fairly settled Mr Cs claim.
Mr C has detailed the problems he had with RACs service and RAC accepts there were 
problems with its service. In deciding whether RACs payment of £200 compensation was 
reasonable I consider Mr Cs overall distress and inconvenience caused by RACs poor 
service. We dont generally award compensation on the basis of a policyholders time spent 
against the cost of their holiday, as Mr C has suggested, and theres no reason for me to do 
so in this case. 
RACs notes at time show Mr C had several calls with it while he was on holiday. 
I understand Mr C found having to make the calls stressful when he was holiday. But I think 
many of those calls were about the necessary arrangements for his journey and his vehicle 
following the unfortunate breakdown of his vehicle. RACs notes of the call on 14 September 
2022 say it was agreed that Mr C would book his return ticket. I cant see any evidence that 
RAC refused to book those arrangements and for practical reasons I think it was probably 
more effective for Mr C to book his return arrangements.
The policy terms at section 6 Getting your vehicle home say:Important
Following our authorisation, it can take up to 14 working days for the vehicle to be 
delivered back to the UK. At busy times and from some countries it may take longer.
The policy warns that the time to repatriate the vehicle may be longer than 14 working days. 
But RAC has acknowledged its delay between requesting the vehicles repatriation on 
6 September 2022 and authorisation on 5 October 2022. I think that caused unnecessary 
delay and the vehicle wasnt delivered to Mr C until 31 October 2022. As Mr C arrived home 
on 22 September 2022 he was without the use of his vehicle for about six weeks which 
caused him a lot of inconvenience. He was also in contact with RAC several times to chase 
the vehicles return.
Looking at Mr Cs overall distress and inconvenience caused by RACs poor service I think 
£400 compensation in total is reasonable. I note RACs comment that this service has 
awarded a smaller amount of compensation in another complaint which had similar 
circumstances. But I make decisions on the individual circumstances of a complaint. I also 
note that RAC has now agreed to pay the additional compensation.
Putting things right
RAC must pay Mr C a further £200 in compensation, in addition to the £200 its already paid, 
for his distress and inconvenience its unfair service caused, as RAC now agrees.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require RAC Insurance Limited to pay Mr C a further £200 
in compensation, in addition to the £200 its already paid, for his distress and inconvenience 
its unfair service caused, as it now agrees.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman