DRN-3189935
The complaint
Mrs H says Nationwide Building Society unfairly rejected her request to refund a disputed 
transaction after she was deceived during a purchase.
What happened
Mrs H bought an item via an online marketplace from a third-party seller. The marketplace 
advised Mrs H that she was eligible for a VAT refund on the purchase. When Mrs H didnt 
receive the refund she asked Nationwide to raise a claim. 
Nationwide explained that as the amount paid on her credit card matched the amount 
invoiced by the third-party seller there was no basis for it to raise a claim under the 
chargeback scheme.  And it said that it was unable to consider a claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as there was no direct chain between Mrs H, the seller and 
Nationwide because her payment was made to the online marketplace. 
Unhappy with this response Mrs H brought a complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said Nationwides response was fair. 
He explained that Mrs Hs purchase didnt meet the governments VAT exempt guidelines, 
but more critically the refund would have needed to be claimed from the seller and not the 
marketplace. 
Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review saying the marketplace had agreed to make the 
refund, irrespective of the VAT situation. She was tricked into making the purchase and is 
out of pocket.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs H used her credit card to make the relevant payment here. So when she asked 
Nationwide for its help in getting a refund, it could have explored this by raising a claim 
under Section 75, or by looking to raise a chargeback.
In terms of Section 75, this would allow Mrs H to hold Nationwide liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation in respect of goods and services purchased using the credit 
Nationwide provided her. But there are certain criteria that have to be met for a claim like this 
to be valid. The relevant criteria here is that there has to be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
While Mrs H is a debtor and Nationwide a creditor  the supplier here isnt the online 
marketplace that Mrs H paid. Instead the supplier is a separate company. And the 
marketplaces terms explain that it isnt party to the contract between Mrs H and the seller of 
the goods. That means that there isnt the relevant relationship between Mrs H, Nationwide 
and the supplier of the goods here in a way that means she has a claim under Section 75. 
So I think its fair that Nationwide declined her claim for this reason.
As Section 75 isnt appropriate here, Nationwide could then have looked to raise the dispute 
as a chargeback. In certain circumstances card issuers (so here Nationwide) can request 
refunds from sellers by raising a chargeback claim  but theres no obligation on an issuer to 
do this. This system has rules which means there are only certain grounds under which a 
chargeback can succeed. So in this case I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably in its decision not to present a chargeback on behalf of Mrs H. I find that it 
did. She bought an item for £449 from a seller (not from the marketplace). This included £75 
VAT. 
Unfortunately she was incorrectly advised by the marketplace that she would be eligible for a 
VAT refund. When she later chased this the marketplace corrected its advice and told Mrs H 
she would need to request this refund from the seller. But as the seller had correctly supplied 
the goods as invoiced to Mrs H it was reasonable for Nationwide to decide not to raise a 
claim. 
It more recently explained why Mrs Hs claim would also not have been valid under the 
credit not processed or the misrepresentation dispute rights. Nationwide explained that as 
Mrs H never received a credit or voided transaction receipt, then this wouldnt have met the 
criteria for a credit not processed. And any misrepresentation here doesnt meet the criteria 
in the rules for this either. So based on the chargeback rules I think its decision was fair and 
reasonable. 
I understand Mrs Hs frustration as I can see the marketplace initially led her to believe it 
would be refunding the VAT. But Nationwide cannot fairly be held liable for this error under 
Section 75, and nor is there a chargeback right that covers this scenario  the rules also 
specifically set out that a dispute regarding VAT is an invalid dispute. 
Mrs H says the seller has not honoured its agreement, but the seller provided the goods for 
the invoiced amount. I have been provided with no evidence that it agreed to do anything 
different in a way that might mean that a chargeback could succeed here. And so I think 
Nationwide acted fairly in not raising a chargeback.
It follows I am not instructing Nationwide to take any further action.
 My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman