DRN-3742727
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc mishandled his application for a credit card.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr H made an online application for a credit card with Sainsburys via a 
comparison website. Mr H says he wanted to use the card to purchase some items to 
furnish a house. As it was a pre-approved application, it had a time limit of 30 days in 
which it had to be approved. If for any reason it wasnt approved in that time, then it would 
lapse and be declined.
Mr Hs application was sent to the underwriting team. Sainsburys says that at that time 
there was a backlog and so it wasnt reviewed within the five working days timescale.
Mr H says that two weeks passed from his application and as he hadnt heard anything, 
he decided to contact Sainsburys in June 2021 to ask about its progress. He says he 
was told by Sainsburys that the delay was due to it needing some additional information 
which he says he then provided. Mr H says he was then told no further information was 
required. He also says that when he queried with Sainsburys why it hadnt contacted 
him about the required information, he was told the application remained live for 90 days 
and that a letter had been sent to him shortly before hed called asking for this extra 
information.
Mr H says as no letters arrived from Sainsburys, he made a number calls to it to 
enquire about the progress of his application. He says he was repeatedly told that the 
application was valid for 90 days, that all the necessary information had been received 
and a decision was pending.
However, Sainsburys says it was prior to Mr Hs first phone call to it in June 2021, that it 
had written to him setting out the additional evidence it required to verify his income. It 
also says during a phone call with Mr H, that Mr H had said although hed received the 
letter it had sent, he hadnt kept a copy of it. Sainsburys says Mr H asked for the letter to 
be re-sent so that he knew what information was needed by it. Sainsburys also says that 
Mr H asked for an extension to provide the required documents as he didnt have access 
to a printer at that time.
Sainsburys says that unfortunately due to an administrative error a copy of the letter 
wasnt provided to Mr H. It says when Mr H phoned again to say the letter hadnt been 
received by him, a further copy should have then been sent, but again due to an error, this 
didnt happen. However, as 30 days had by now passed, Mr Hs application lapsed, and 
his application was changed to a decline at the end of June 2021. Sainsburys says that 
had the required information been received from Mr H within 90 days of his application it 
would have been able to continue with his application. Sainsburys says it didnt receive 
the required information.
Mr H says he had been told by Sainsburys to disregard the letter sent in June 2021 
seeking the additional information and that was why he hadnt kept a copy. He says he 
was told repeatedly that Sainsburys had everything it needed.
Mr H says he was shocked and disappointed to learn during a phone call with Sainsburys 
in July 2021 that his application for the credit card had been declined because it had 
lapsed. He hadnt received a decline letter. Mr H complained to Sainsburys about its 
handling of his application and the confusion over the 30 and 90-day time limits when 
speaking with its agents on the phone. He asked for a letter setting out the reasons why 
his application had been declined.
In September 2021 Mr H received a letter from Sainsburys stating that his application 
had been declined because 90 days had lapsed. Sainsburys also offered Mr H £50 as 
compensation for its handling of his application. Mr H declined the offer of compensation 
as he said it was insufficient in light of the amount of time that had passed and the 
confusing information that had been provided to him about his application.
Mr H says that he wanted to know why his application had been declined before applying 
for a credit card with another credit provider. He says he was concerned that there had 
been some problem with his application, and he would be declined again, further 
damaging his credit record.
Sainsburys re-opened Mr Hs complaint after he had received the decline letter because 
it said the application had lapsed after 90 days rather than the 30 days which had been 
applied. Sainsburys offered Mr H £75 compensation for the poor service hed received, 
and it acknowledged that it had failed to send him a decline letter at the time this decision 
had been made. Sainsburys said it would also remove the footprint left by this application 
from Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H was unhappy at Sainsburys response and sought more information from it as to 
the timeline of events. Sainsburys confirmed that pre-approved applications would 
lapse after 30 days and said it was of the view that its offer of £75 compensation had 
been fair in the circumstances.
In January 2022 Mr H contacted Sainsburys to say that this application was still showing 
on his credit file. Sainsburys re-opened his complaint. It acknowledged it had made a 
further error and arranged for that to be removed. Sainsburys offered Mr H a further 
compensation amount of £50 making a £125 in total.
Mr H declined the offer and complained to this service. He said Sainsburys handling of 
his credit card application had caused him distress, inconvenience and financial 
detriment because the items hed wanted to purchase with the card had all increased in 
cost. He said he had later been approved for a credit card with a different provider after 
learning of the decline by Sainsburys, but hadnt applied earlier because he was 
concerned that he would be refused again, causing a larger impact on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He said he could 
understand Mr Hs disappointment at the level of service hed received from Sainsburys 
which appeared to have been poor. Our investigator said it would have avoided stress for 
Mr H if Sainsburys had sent him correspondence setting out clearly the process and 
outcome for his application.
However, our investigator said he couldnt hold Sainsburys responsible for Mr Hs 
decision not to apply for another credit card until later. Our investigator said Mr H had 
been aware this application had been declined in July 2021 and so it was reasonable to 
say he could have applied then for another credit card. He acknowledged Mr H had 
wanted a letter setting out the reasons for the decline and hadnt received one but said Mr H could have approached other credit providers from July or made enquiries about making 
another application if hed been unsure. Our investigator said he thought the amount of 
compensation offered by Sainsburys to Mr H had been fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he had discarded the letter 
from Sainsburys seeking further information sent in June 2021 at its instruction and 
that Sainsburys had lied as to why his application had been denied as he had been 
told repeatedly it had all the necessary information.
Mr H said hed been unaware if his credit rating had been impacted by the decline and as 
he had only recently purchased a house, he didnt want any issues with his credit file by 
making another credit application that could be declined. He said hed had no clear option 
but to wait. He said £75 compensation for the handling of his credit card application was 
unreasonable.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
Id been able to listen to a number of calls between Mr H and Sainsburys, and I had also 
seen the notes made by Sainsburys on Mr Hs application. And while it wasnt disputed 
by Sainsburys that it hadnt provided the service Mr H could reasonably have expected, 
the evidence it had provided didnt always agree with what Mr H had said had happened.
Mr H had made an application online for a pre-approved credit card in May 2021 via a 
comparison website. Id seen that under Sainsburys processes a pre-approved 
application will expire after 30 days if for any reason a decision couldnt be made as to its 
grant or decline in that time.
Once received by Sainsburys, Mr Hs application was sent to the underwriters and 
further information was requested as to proof of Mr Hs income. This request had been 
made by letter because Mr H had to provide documentary evidence to Sainsburys.
Listening to the calls, Mr H had first made contact with Sainsburys at the end of May 
2021. During this call the agent had informed Mr H that more information was 
required, and he had then been transferred to the department dealing with his 
application. Unfortunately, I didnt have the second part of this call, so I didnt know 
what had been said.
Mr H had next called Sainsburys one week later, at the start of June 2021. The agent 
said there was still outstanding information required and Mr H said he thought he had 
answered that in the earlier call. He was again passed on to the department dealing 
with his application. This time I did have the second part of the call and heard that Mr 
H was informed a letter was on its way about his need to provide proof of his income 
and he should follow the instructions provided in that letter. He was also told his 
application could not proceed without this proof being received. The agent said that if 
Mr H was concerned this application was taking too long then he was able to 
approach other credit providers if hed prefer.
There was a further call four days letter with Mr H querying why he had not received 
the letter from Sainsburys. He had asked the agent if a message could be passed on 
that the letter should be re-sent to him. The agent agreed to send an email to that 
effect to the correct department.
A fourth call was made by Mr H the following day seeking an update on his application. Mr H said during that call that he had received a letter from Sainsburys but had thrown it 
away as he thought he had supplied what had been needed. He said he now thought he 
shouldnt have disposed of the letter as information was still seemingly required by 
Sainsburys. The agent said proof of income was still required and that a copy of the letter 
would be sent to Mr H. It was now the start of the second week of June.
A month later, in July 2021, Mr H had called Sainsburys and said he hadnt received the 
letter but had been asked to provide a copy of his employment contract. Mr H said he 
couldnt do this at present because he needed to find somewhere to print the document in 
order to send it. The agent had told Mr H he had 90 days to provide the information that 
was needed.
Six days later Mr H called Sainsburys and said he still hadnt received a copy of the letter. 
During this call the agent, on checking Mr Hs application notes, informed him that the 
application had been declined back at the end of June 2021 when the 30 days had 
expired. Mr H asked if the documents had been received as he had tried to send them. 
The agent said they hadnt been, and his application had lapsed. Mr H responded that he 
had been told he had 90 days to send the proof in and had printed off the required 
documentation and sent it off one week ago. Mr H said he wished to complain as he had 
been told he had 90 days and not five weeks to supply the documents, that he hadnt 
been told his application had lapsed and been declined in June and that this would have 
an impact on his credit card file. Mr H said he thought Sainsburys had been negligent in 
the way it had followed its processes.
The final call I had listened to occurred nine days later. Mr H said he hadnt received a 
letter setting out why his application was declined, and the agent replied that they had 
needed more information from Mr H which wasnt received and so his application lapsed. 
The agent suggested Mr H re-applied for the credit card. The agent then said that the 
credit card Mr H had applied for, being pre-approved, had had a credit limit of £500. Mr H 
said that this wasnt the card he had applied for, and he thought he was applying for a 
credit card with a larger credit limit. The agent said a £500 credit limit was usual when an 
application was made for a pre- approved credit card via a comparison site.
During this last call, Mr H asked for a letter setting out why his application had 
been declined. The agent said the decline letter wouldnt provide detailed 
information as the application had lapsed due to time.
I appreciated the calls I had received may not have been all the calls between Mr H and 
Sainsburys. For instance, I could see from the notes made by Sainsburys that it had 
called Mr H one week after the fourth phone call to say that it needed to see a copy of his 
contract of employment. However, I thought these calls were helpful as to the chronology 
of events here. And where evidence was missing or contradictory, then I must decide 
what I thought was the most likely thing to have happened.
I hadnt seen a copy of the letter sent by Sainsburys to Mr H requesting his contract of 
employment/proof of income, but it appeared to be agreed by both parties that such a 
letter had been sent. And I thought it was likely Mr H had received it but had later 
discarded it as he told Sainsburys he had. However, I couldnt reasonably say that 
Sainsburys had told him to do so and that this information was no longer required. 
Throughout the calls it had been made clear to Mr H by Sainsburys that he needed to 
send in documentary proof. And although I accepted that during the first call, Mr H might 
have been given the impression hed provided the information that was needed, this was 
corrected later during the other calls. Mr H also said that he sent this information to 
Sainsburys in July 2021, so I thought it was reasonable to say he was aware it had been 
needed. His complaint to Sainsburys when told his application had lapsed was that he had been told he had 90 and not 30 days to supply the required documentation.
Sainsburys accepted that it hadnt resent the letter about the additional information it had 
required although it had said it would. However, Mr H appeared to have received the 
original and to have been aware about what was needed because he both asked for extra 
time to send it in and said he had tried to send it to Sainsburys.
It wasnt disputed that Sainsburys, not only hadnt re-sent the letter but had made 
errors when speaking with Mr H in relation to the length of time before the application 
lapsed. I wasnt surprised that the position of his credit card application had become 
confused for Mr H.
I appreciated Mr H said he had sent the documentation when speaking with 
Sainsburys in July 2021 and that this would have been within the 90-day time limit, but 
Sainsburys said this hadnt arrived. I didnt know how Mr H had supplied this 
information, but I thought it was unlikely it had been received by Sainsburys. I couldnt 
reasonably say Sainsburys had ignored the extra information it had asked for from Mr 
H because it had been sent after the 30-day time limit had expired. Id seen that 
Sainsburys has said it would have looked at information received after that time if 
received within the 90-day window.
I accepted the service provided by Sainsburys hadnt been what Mr H would have 
reasonably expected. It had provided confusing information about the time limit before 
the credit card application expired, failed to provide Mr H with copies of the June 2021 
letter and had been unhelpful as to the reason for the decline. I thought it was fair to say 
the service provided by Sainsburys to Mr H was poor. I also thought if it had provided Mr 
H with a clearer explanation as to the process and outcome of his application much of Mr 
Hs distress could have been avoided. However, I disagreed with Mr Hs view that the 
reason given for declining his application was untrue. His application had lapsed after 30 
days as the information that had been required hadnt been provided.
I therefore agreed that in the circumstances compensation for Mr H would be fair and 
reasonable. Id seen that £50 of the £125 offered had been due to Sainsburys failure to 
remove the footprint left by this declined application on Mr Hs credit file. Mr H didnt 
dispute that amount but was unhappy about £75 reflecting the distress and inconvenience 
he had suffered as a result of the handling of his application for the credit card.
Id seen that Mr H had applied for a credit card for a specific purpose which was to 
purchase items for his new home. Id also seen that Mr H said that the cost of those 
items had increased while he waited firstly for the application to be decided and then 
while he tried to find out why. He said this had added to the financial impact of 
Sainsburys handling of the matter. Mr H said he had spent a lot of time and money, 
making repeated phone calls to Sainsburys. However, Id also seen that had he received 
the credit card; it was possible it wouldnt have had the credit limit he had expected.
I appreciated why Mr H hadnt pursued an application for another credit card while this 
application had been pending, but by July 2021 he was aware that it had been declined. 
And while this would have been of disappointment to Mr H, I agreed with our investigator 
that it would have been reasonable for him to have either applied for or made enquiries 
from that point with other credit providers. This would have meant Mr H could have 
proceeded with his chosen purchases earlier and before prices increased further. I 
appreciated he was worried about the impact on his credit rating that applying for 
another credit card might have had, but he had also said that when he had made another 
application, it had been quickly processed and accepted. This meant that Sainsburys 
decision hadnt prevented him from making a new successful application for a credit card.
I didnt think I could reasonably hold Sainsburys responsible for Mr Hs delay in making 
that a credit card application. That was his choice, based on his knowledge of credit 
reports/scores which he accepted was limited. I couldnt fairly say that Sainsburys had 
directly influenced him not to make further credit applications.
So, although I appreciated Mr H felt strongly about the level of compensation offered 
by Sainsburys I wasnt going to ask it to increase it. I thought a total compensation 
payment of £125 was fair and reasonable for what had happened. I thought the 
payment of £75 was fair when considering the length of time Mr H had been waiting for 
a decision on his application together with the service provided by Sainsburys.
I also thought £50 compensation had been fair for the failure to remove the footprint of 
the credit card application from Mr Hs credit file.
Although I was aware this would be disappointing to Mr H, I wasnt intending to 
uphold his complaint.
Mr H has disagreed with my provisional view. He says that he is concerned about 
the missing half of the first call that he made to Sainsburys in May 2021 as he 
says he was assured during that call he had provided all the necessary 
information. Mr H also says he feels he was justified in not keeping a copy of the 
letter later sent by Sainsburys in light of that earlier conversation. Mr H says that 
during the other calls he was also continuously told by Sainsburys that his credit 
card application was being processed.
Mr H says when he found that his application had been declined, he was then kept 
in limbo as Sainsburys was unable to confirm to him why his application had been 
turned down. He says that he feels the fault lies with Sainsburys for the delay in 
his seeking an alternate credit card with another provider. Mr H says as he didnt 
know why hed been declined he feared it would happen again and so damage his 
credit rating further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed my provisional conclusions against Mr Hs further representations, but I 
havent changed my view and I will explain why.
Unfortunately, I havent been able to listen to the second half of that first call between Mr H 
and Sainsburys in May 2021 because the recording has become corrupted. But I dont think 
this points to Sainsburys trying to hide anything as is suggested by Mr H. As set out above, I 
have been able to listen to the subsequent calls and they have assisted me in deciding what 
I think happened here. I think the contents of these other phone calls dont appear to support 
Mr Hs view that Sainsburys continued to mislead him that he had provided all the 
information it required to process his application.
So, while I dont disagree that Mr H may have been told during that first call with Sainsburys 
that he had provided the necessary information, I think its clear that this was then corrected 
during the subsequent calls between the two parties. And Mr H also told Sainsburys that he 
had posted the documentation to it in July 2021 which I dont think he wouldve done if he 
didnt think he needed to do anything more to support his application. I dont know why the documentation was never received by Sainsburys, but I accept that it wasnt.
Im satisfied that after that first call, Mr H was told by Sainsburys that his application couldnt 
proceed without this additional evidence. And that its reasonable to say Mr H was aware 
that he needed to provide documentary proof of his income to Sainsburys. I think this is also 
supported by Mr Hs original complaint to Sainsburys being that it had lapsed his application 
after 30 days and not the 90 days hed been told he had to provide the required information 
rather than he hadnt been told he needed to send extra information.
I appreciate Mr H feels he was left in limbo by Sainsburys as to the reason for its decline but 
listening to the calls I heard the agent in July 2021 explain it had lapsed because the 
requested information hadnt been received. And this reason was repeated in the last phone 
call between Mr H and Sainsburys which was near the end of July. So, I think its 
reasonable to say that Mr H was aware why his credit card application had lapsed and he 
could have applied to or sought advice from another credit card provider from that point 
rather than waiting as long as he did. So, although Sainsburys delayed in informing Mr H 
that his application had been declined in June, it had told him why this had happened in July 
2021. I dont think I can fairly hold it responsible for Mr H deciding not to make another credit 
card application until some months later. As set out above, Ive seen that notwithstanding 
this declined application, Mr H was able to obtain a credit card relatively quickly after 
applying to a new credit provider.
Sainsburys agrees with Mr H that its service to him was poor and so do I. I think Sainsburys 
could have explained its processes more clearly, resent the letter requesting the information 
as it said it would and provided consistent information about the time-limit that applied before 
the application would lapse. There was also a delay in providing his decline letter. I can 
appreciate why Mr H has found this application process frustrating and I still think 
compensation is fair here.
However, Im still satisfied that the £75 compensation offered by Sainsburys to Mr H for its 
handling of his credit card application is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. This 
amount, together with the £50 compensation for the footprint from this application not being 
removed as agreed by Sainsburys from Mr Hs credit file, makes a total payment of £125.00. 
And Im not asking Sainsburys to increase that amount.
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
H, Im not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman