DRN-4180064
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained, via a representative, that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-
op Bank) mis-sold them fee-paying Privilege and Privilege Premier packaged accounts in 
September 2003 and May 2004 respectively.
Mr and Mrs B say that they did not agree to upgrade their account, they say they received a 
letter from Co-op saying that their account had been upgraded and they thought that they 
had no choice in the matter.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think on balance that the 
accounts had been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think most likely happened. To do 
so, I base my decision on all of the evidence that is available. And having weighed 
everything up, Im unable to say  albeit on balance  that the packaged accounts were mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs B say that their account was upgraded without their consent or knowledge on 
two separate occasions. Once to a Privilege account in September 2003 and then again to a 
Privilege Premier account in May 2004. Due to how long ago these events took place, there 
is quite understandably a lack of evidence that is available from the upgrade of these 
accounts.
However, Co-op Bank has been able to provide entries from its records from the time which 
indicate that the two accounts were likely to have been discussed with Co-op Bank. And that 
letters were sent out after each upgrade to confirm the upgrades had taken place on their 
account. 
Looking at the templates of letters that were sent to Mr and Mrs B, they made it clear that Mr 
and Mrs Bs account had been changed to one that included a monthly fee in return for a 
range of benefits. And in the circumstances, I think the contents of the sample letters 
provided to our service are likely to be similar to the letters that were sent to Mr and Mrs B 
shortly after the upgraded on both occasions. 
Furthermore, I can see that either Mr B or Mrs B called Co-op Bank on 1 October 2003 to 
question why they had been sent two Privilege account debit cards. Co-op Bank confirmed 
that it had cancelled one of the cards as two had been sent in error. There is also an entry 
dated 22 March 2005, whereby Mr B or Mrs B called Co-op Bank to ask for a copy of the 
insurance documents for the Privilege Premier account.
Based on all the evidence I have seen, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Bs account was 
upgraded twice  by two different members of staff (as indicated by different user codes 
being registered on Co-op Banks system to process the upgrades)  both without Mr and 
Mrs Bs consent. In the circumstances, I think its much more likely that they did agree to 
upgrade their account to the two different packaged accounts. Indeed, the fact that an 
arranged overdraft facility of £800 and then £1,000 was agreed during each sale, makes me 
think that they mayve agreed to the upgrades, at least in part, due to the overdraft benefits 
that were included with the accounts.
Overall, I think it is the case that if Mr and Mrs B had not agreed to upgrade their account on 
each occasion, they wouldve questioned why theyd been sent a letter saying their account 
had been changed on two separate occasions, if this was something they had genuinely not 
agreed to. Im also mindful that the upgrades occurred over 19 years ago. So, I think its just 
as likely that Mr and Mrs B agreed to the upgrades, but they now cant recall doing so or the 
reasons why they mayve done so.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says that Mr B is very financially unsophisticated. However, 
whilst that may be the case, there is evidence to show that Mr and Mrs B questioned why 
they had been sent two Privilege debit cards after the Privilege upgrade, and then asked for 
the insurance documents after the second upgrade as well. In my view, the fact that Mr and 
Mrs B were able to do this also makes me think they couldve questioned Co-op Bank about 
their account, if it was the case that itd been upgraded without their consent. 
So, taking everything into account, Im unable to conclude that the packaged accounts were 
upgraded without Mr and Mrs Bs consent.
When selling the accounts, Co-op Bank was required to provide Mr and Mrs B with important 
information about the accounts. 
Unfortunately, Co-op Bank no longer has a record to show what was said during the sales 
calls. And it is the case that Mr and Mrs B have no recollection of their ever being a sales 
call. So, its difficult for me to say what was said when the accounts were upgraded. 
However, given that Mr and Mrs B had held a fee-free account for many years before the 
sale of the Privilege account (that also included an overdraft facility), I think its likely that at 
the very least, the cost and benefits wouldve been mentioned. After all, Co-op Bank 
wouldve wanted to have made the accounts seem attractive so that Mr and Mrs B would 
agree to them. 
I also think its likely, based on the limited notes that Co-op Bank have provided, that the 
overdraft benefits were also discussed during the upgrades, as new overdraft limits were 
agreed in each sale.  I therefore think its likely that Mr and Mrs B wouldve been given at 
least some information about the account benefits when the accounts were sold.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B might not have been given all of the important information 
about the accounts and the associated benefits. However, I can see that a request of the 
insurance documentation was made in 2005, and Mr and Mrs B chose to keep the account 
after receiving that. In the circumstances, Ive not seen anything that makes me think that Mr 
and Mrs B wouldve been put off from agreeing to the upgrades, had they been given even 
more information about them. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances mayve changed over the years they had the 
account, and that they may now not have a need for any of the insurance benefits included 
with the account. I also recognise that it was not perhaps in Mr Bs nature to have discussed 
alternative accounts with Co-op bank, if Mr and Mrs B later felt the packaged account was 
not suitable for them. But that doesnt mean that the packaged accounts were mis-sold, or that Co-op Bank was acting unfairly or unreasonably by selling the accounts to them when it 
did. 
As such, Im unable to say, albeit on balance, that the Privilege or Privilege Premier 
accounts were mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman