DRN-1299437
 
The complaint
Ms B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.   
What happened
Ms B bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on our 
website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I'll explain why:
Ms B says she didn't know the PPI had been added to her account, and that Egg 
didn't make it clear what she was signing up to. But Ive seen a screen print of the 
part of the online credit card application process where PPI wouldve been offered to 
Ms B. This shows that she wouldve had to choose whether she wanted PPI or not 
before she could continue with her application. Eggs record of the application data 
shows that Ms B selected the PPI. So without anything else to support what Ms B 
has told me, I think Egg made her aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it.
Ms B says that she didnt need the PPI because she would've received generous 
benefits from her employer if she was off work sick. But Egg didnt recommend the 
policy to Ms B so it didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for 
her. Ms B had to decide for herself whether the PPI would be useful to her.
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Ms B wouldve been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. Ms B says she had good employee benefits, but the 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to these. The policy was also competitively priced 
and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
her buying it. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
 
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Egg didnt tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman