DRN-1000254
 
The complaint
 Mr A is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A arranged a holiday in Nigeria. He claimed on his travel insurance policy for missed 
flights. He also made a further claim because he says he was the victim of a robbery. 
Aviva declined the claims on the basis that the policy terms and conditions didn't cover the 
circumstances Mr A had described when he missed his flight. And Mr A had given different 
accounts of what had happened during the robbery. They weren't satisfied the claims were 
genuine. 
Mr A made a complaint to our service because he says he did everything he could, including 
getting a sworn affidavit from the court and a police report. Our investigator looked into what 
had happened and didn't uphold the complaint. She said that it wasn't unreasonable for 
Aviva to decline the claim on the basis of the evidence Mr A had put forward, which was 
inconsistent. 
Mr A didn't agree and said that he'd done what was asked of him by the policy terms. So I 
need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably. 
Missed flights
The policy terms says missed connections are covered in the following circumstances:
If you arrive too late at your point of international departure as a direct result of: 
1. Delay or cancellation to scheduled public transport service or a connecting 
scheduled flight; or 
2. Accidental damage to, or breakdown of, the vehicle in which you are travelling or 
accident or breakdown ahead of you which causes an unexpected delay. 
 
Mr A says he missed the first flight because of delays getting through security and the 
second flight because his luggage still wasn't ready in time. Mr A says a friend paid for the 
third flight.None of the scenarios Mr A described during the claims process are covered by the policy. 
So it's not unreasonable for Aviva to reject this part of the claim. 
The stolen items 
Aviva says it isn't satisfied the claim is genuine. I don't think it's unreasonable for Aviva to 
decline the claim because: 
Aviva made enquiries with the police and court in Nigeria. They confirmed that no 
enquiries were made by the police to determine whether Mr A's account was true. He 
was allowed to swear an affidavit and obtain a police report but his evidence wasn't 
explored or tested in any way 
 
There were some significant inconsistencies in the evidence Mr A provided. For 
example, he told Aviva he'd been held at gunpoint with his family. But there's no 
mention of this in the police report or affidavit. This is surprising as it is a significant 
and important detail which I'd have expected to see reported when Mr A spoke to the 
police and the court. He also didn't mention it in the initial call to Barclays when he 
registered the claim
 
I also note that Mr A was claiming for a number of high value items, including laptops 
and phones. But when asked for more information about the phones being reported 
as stolen he said he couldn't provide it because both phones were new and hadn't 
been used
 
Taking the overall circumstances into account I'm satisfied Aviva has acted 
reasonably by declining the claim. I don't think they were unreasonable to query and 
challenge the evidence provided, given the information they were provided with. I 
also note they've made it clear to Mr A what information he'll need to provide to 
evidence his claim.
 
My final decision
 I'm not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman