The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on 
their behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC
In short, the CMC says:
Mr and Mrs H were advised to take too much risk with their capital.
They were recommended products that were more suitable for more experienced
investors with a balanced attitude to risk.
The investment products were complex.
Their circumstances werent as good as Barclays had made out and therefore they
werent in a position to invest their pension savings.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 30 March 2020, which forms part of this, my final decision, I 
said I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Barclays says, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation to invest in the dynamic plan and the bond was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs H.
Im aware that they were advised to invest £50,000 (out of £101,200, comprised of 
a £40,000 tax free lump sum from a pension drawdown, and £60,000 from traditional 
savings), across three products  two of which had capital protection elements  leading to 
Mr and Mrs Hs retirement. Whilst I dont think too much money was invested, I still think  
even as an overall package of recommendations  the advice to invest in the dynamic plan 
and the bond was unsuitable, and tipped the balance towards a greater risk than they were 
willing to take.
Whilst its fair to say certain questions were asked of Mr and Mrs H to arrive at 
the conclusion that they were balanced risk investors, Im uncertain as to the reasoning 
behind this being identified as their attitude to risk.
I note that Mr and Mrs H were in their mid-60s, they werent experienced investors, and 
were looking to invest for capital growth (compared to a deposit account) until their 
retirement. So Im not persuaded that a balanced risk was an accurate assessment of Mr 
and Mrs Hs attitude to risk.
I note it was agreed (after discussions with Mr and Mrs H) that theyd invest in 
lower/cautious risk investments, but this doesnt appear to have been what happened. I note 
DRN-2031694the bond was a balanced risk investment (which isnt what theyd wanted) and the dynamic 
plan had exposure to 20% maximum loss (given the 80% minimum capital guarantee).
The idea that Mr and Mrs H, as inexperienced lower/cautious risk investors  in the run up 
to retirement  would be prepared to take a 20% hit on their money is questionable. Im 
mindful that Barclays says the dynamic plan was low risk, but I still think it was unsuitable.
I dont think Mr and Mrs H wouldve been prepared to invest in the dynamic plan (or 
the bond) if theyd fully appreciated the risk it presented of receiving no return at all or 
making what I deem a significant loss of 20%.
Im not suggesting that Mr and Mrs H were risk averse, or that they werent willing to 
take any risk all  evidently they were prepared to take a risk in order to make some gain on 
their money. Im just not satisfied that they were aware of the level of risk and I dont think 
they were willing to take that level of risk in order to achieve capital growth.
And more importantly there appears to be no reason for them to go beyond the scope 
of products which offered anything other than a low/cautious risk without 
associated complexities.
I also appreciate the points made by Barclays, but I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H 
relied on the advice they were given rather than the documentation. And whilst Im conscious 
of Barclays reasons for recommending a balanced investment, I dont think it was suitable 
in light of their overall financial circumstances either.
Whilst I think Mr and Mrs H could afford to tie up their money in investments, and 
probably had a reasonable amount of cash reserves for emergencies, that still doesnt make 
an unsuitable recommendation suitable. I still think that because they were in the lead up 
to their retirement, they were unlikely to be in a position  upon maturity of their investments 
 to replace any losses given the risks they were exposed to.. 
 
The CMC responded and accepted my recommendation. 
Barclays also responded but disagreed with my decision. In short, it made the following key 
points:
It remains of the view that the advice to invest in the dynamic plan and the bond was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
It notes that when the case was initially referred by the CMC it only complained about 
the dynamic plan. 
They completed a risk profile questionnaire, and although their answers suggested 
they were balanced risk investors, after further discussion it was agreed that they 
were more cautious in nature but prepared to invest in some balanced investments. 
The dynamic plan was cautious risk which matched Mr and Mrs Hs risk profile, and 
the suitability letter explained how the product worked. So, Mr and Mrs H were happy 
with the recommendation. 
With regards to the bond, Mr and Mrs H indicated that they were prepared to invest 
some of their money in a balanced risked product and investing 14% of their funds in 
this way wasnt unsuitable. 
Overall the risk was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, considering the responses from the parties, my conclusion regarding the 
uphold, remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the parties afresh and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In other words, Im not bound by the 
investigators view.
In this instance, despite what Barclays says, I don't consider that any new points have been 
raised, other than those key points already made and considered by me in my provisional 
decision. I note it feels it's worth repeating the overall risk involved and I've taken that into 
account.  
It is worth making clear that in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the 
relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Having done so, on balance, I still dont think, the recommendation was suitable given Mr 
and Mrs Hs overall financial circumstances. In other words, notwithstanding the overall 
advice, I still think the advice to invest in the dynamic plan and the bond tipped the balance 
towards unsuitability, given the exposure to a 20% maximum loss (given the 80% minimum 
capital guarantee), and a greater risk than they were willing to take. And because they were 
in the lead up to their retirement, they were unlikely to be in a position  upon maturity of 
their investments  to replace any losses given the risks they were exposed to. 
 
Putting things right
My decision regarding redress remains as follows:
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs H as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr and Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
 
What should Barclays do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs H fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs H's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £100 for as compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delays.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Barclays 
Protected 
Dynamic 
Planstill existsfor half the 
investment
: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decisio
n to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Aviva 
Portfolio 
Bondstill existsfor half the 
investment
: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decisio
n to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
 
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value  when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis. Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs H wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So,
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs H into that position. It does
not mean that Mr and Mrs H would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs H could
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman