DRN-3850292
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his property insurer Zurich Insurance PLC regarding outstanding 
repairs at his property, which resulted from a claim made in November 2020.
What happened
Following damage being found in November 2020, Mr D made a claim to Zurich. At that time 
the property had been tenanted but Mr D had intended to move back in, following that 
tenancy ending and then let out one room. The claim did not progress as Mr D expected and 
resulted in a complaint being made to this service. My Ombudsman colleague issued a 
decision in 2021 which looked at what had happened during the claim up to May 2021.
The claim was ongoing and on 30 July 2021 Zurich issued a further final response to Mr D 
addressing concerns hed raised about the claims continued lack of progress. Zurich set out 
a plan for Mr D to assure him the claim would now progress and to share with him how it 
expected that would happen. But work did not begin at the property and in August and 
December 2021 Zurich issued final responses to Mr D which denied delays had occurred. By 
February 2022, with work still not having progressed, Mr D was more frustrated. He was also 
worried about the income he felt he was losing. On 1 March 2022 Zurich wrote a further final 
response to Mr D. It acknowledged a recent delay in obtaining a report from its loss adjuster 
and offered £150 compensation.   
By this point Mr D had already raised a further complaint with us  within the six-month 
period following the 30 July 2021 final response letter. Having received the March letter, he 
asked us to review everything between those two final responses dated 30 July 2021 and 
1 March 2022. Our Investigator proceeded on that basis. 
Our Investigator noted that this had been a complex claim. She felt that given some of the 
challenges  such as a need for asbestos tests  there had not been any avoidable delays 
between July 2021 and the end of December 2021. But she thought the claim should have 
progressed between January 2022 and 1 March 2022. Although she also felt that the £150 
compensation already offered by Zurich fairly and reasonably made up for that. So she did 
not recommend that it do anything more. 
Mr D objected. He said the last two years had been unbelievably stressful, impacting his 
family life and even how he lives. He said that as he has kept expecting works to start and 
be done, he hasnt felt able to unpack properly, so hes been living out of boxes. Mr D also 
said he was upset because he hadnt been able to let one of his rooms out, so he had lost 
that extra income. His complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt that Zurich had caused delays during the whole period of 30 July 2021 to 1 March 2022. 
And also, given that Zurichs final response of 30 July 2021 had promised Mr D progress, 
that he had been understandably upset and frustrated when, by 1 March 2022, little had 
been achieved. I said Zurich should pay £500 compensation. But I wasnt persuaded it 
should have to pay Mr D for lost rent. My full findings were:
It is fair to say that some claims, often where there are freeholders involved and where 
multiple contractors are needed, as was the case here, do take time to progress. But that is 
not to say that a claim encompassing these type of factors will always just take time or that it 
isnt possible for avoidable delays to also occur along the way, resulting in the claims further 
stagnation. So Ive looked in detail at what went on here with a view to concluding what 
should have happened. Ive taken most of my references from Zurichs and its loss adjusters 
timelines  as it has provided little else, despite my specific request to see its key 
documents, such as reports and emails. Having looked carefully at what happened, as set 
out in the timelines, I think this claim could have been handled better and quicker by Zurich.
My review begins in July 2021  with Zurich issuing its final response dated 30 July 2021. 
But for context only here, I mention that it was as early as mid-July that Zurich noted 
asbestos testing and removal at the property needed expediting  that this was already 
delayed. So my review period starts knowing that this issue was already causing an 
avoidable delay. Whilst other works werent formally agreed etc at this stage, even if they 
had been the first stage of the reinstatement process was for asbestos to be found and 
removed. 
Around the end of July 2021, Zurich was also having issue with determining what needed to 
be done with the heating. There was an old system at the property, it wasnt clear if this 
could be repaired, or, if it couldnt, if it could be replaced like-for-like. In early September 
Zurich determined the old one would have to be removed, and a different type of system put 
in place. And around that time Zurich also accepted that this and the asbestos removal could 
and should go ahead whilst other debates on the reinstatement work continued. 
The asbestos was reported as removed in early November. But as of the end of November 
the heating system had still not been removed. And there is no sign on the timeline 
documents that it was removed, let alone reinstated, by the time Zurich issued its further 
final response on 1 March 2022. I can see absolutely no good reason for that. 
I further note that whilst, at one time, there had been a request from Mr D to move the 
kitchen into the lounge, he had revoked that request in late November 2021. And regardless 
of the location of the kitchen, by mid-December 2021 he was still waiting for material choices 
to be sent to him by Zurichs contractor. Like the rest of the reinstatement work, it seems that 
this element did not progress any further between January 2022 and 1 March 2022.
So I do think things could have been managed better during this period. And if they had 
been that the claim would have progressed. I cant be sure it would have completed but 
I think it would have moved on and Mr D would likely have been less frustrated than he was. 
I bear in mind that Mr D has been living with uncertainty about the claim over a number of 
months (the months that I can consider here) and I think that worry would have lessened had 
he seen some significant progress in the reinstatement of his home. Not least as progress 
was what Zurich had promised him in its July 2021 final response letter. It assured him there 
was a plan for things moving forwards and yet around seven months after that, when Zurich 
issued its further final response on 1 March 2022, other than the removal of asbestos, little 
had been achieved. I quite understand why Mr D has been so upset. I think, in the 
circumstances here, £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due to Mr D.
I know Mr D has reported having lost out on rental income due to Zurichs delays. But as 
I said above, I cant be sure that, but for the delays Ive noted here, the claim would have 
progressed to completion before 1 March 2022. And, in any event, whilst I know Mr D says 
he intended to let one room in his flat, he had not done this before. Previously the flat was let 
in its entirety, with Mr D living elsewhere. So with no history of one room being let, Mr Ds 
intent to do that, but for the damage present in 2021/2022, amounts to no more than a 
desired outcome. With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr D, I cant be certain that he most likely would have been able to let a room and earn income. Therefore, 
and its delays notwithstanding, I cant reasonably require Zurich to compensate him for the 
income he believes he has lost.
Zurich said it accepted my findings. 
Mr D said:
This is not complex.
The claim was not about a water leak (as Id referenced in the background of my 
provisional decision).
He isnt responsible for any delays  he did what he could regarding asbestos and 
moving the reinstatement work on.
There was only one contractor.
There are failures by Zurichs contractor which he is now having to deal with.
He always rented out a room in the flat.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Zurichs acceptance.
I agree with Mr D, this is not a complex claim. And I note his concern about my reference to 
this claim having stemmed from a water leak, as Id mentioned in the background to my 
provisional decision. Ive amended that detail here. But the type of claim doesnt materially 
affect my findings.
Im not sure why Mr D has emphasized in his reply to my findings that he did not cause 
delays, that he, in fact, did what he could to move things on. My provisional findings did not 
criticise Mr D at all. Rather my finding was that Zurich hadnt managed the claim as it should 
have done and that it had caused delays.
As is often the case with reinstatement work  not everything can be done by one contractor. 
There is often a company that organises all the trades, and that is sometimes the only 
contractor seen by the policyholder. But here, for example, asbestos needed removing. 
That had to be done by a specialist contractor, it wasnt done by the general builder involved 
in the other reinstatement work.
Im sorry to hear that Mr D has experienced issues with the reinstatement work. I trust Zurich 
will work worth him to resolve any concerns. But my review only goes up to 1 March 2022, 
and at that time, as reflected by the criticisms I made in my provisional decision, the 
reinstatement of Mr Ds home had not progressed to any substantial degree. So I cant look 
here at Mr Ds concerns about the work that has since been done at his home. 
I dont know if, at sometime prior to the last tenancy, Mr D lived in his flat and let out a room. 
Ive not seen any evidence from Mr D to show that this was ever the case. And it was not the 
arrangement in place at the time of the claim  at that time the whole house had been let to 
a tenant with Mr D living elsewhere. Im still not persuaded it would be fair, in the 
circumstances, to say Zurich should compensate Mr D for the rent he believes he has lost by 
not being able to let out a room in his home whilst he lives there.Putting things right
I require Zurich to pay Mr D £500 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him by delaying the claim between 30 July 2021 and 1 March 2022.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman