DRN-3821142
The complaint
What happened
Ms T used her HSBC credit card to pay £230 to an online travel agent (R) for a hotel room in 
London. Ms T booked a superior room for four people, two adults and two children, for four 
nights. On arrival, the hotel said R had made a mistake and it was unable to provide a 
superior room for four people. It said it only offered double or single rooms. It offered another 
double room at additional cost, but Ms T declined that due to the extra cost and the fact 
theyd then be split over two rooms. Instead, Ms Ts husband and children shared the double 
bed and Ms T slept on the floor. After two nights, R paid for another double room free of 
charge for the remaining two nights. 
Ms T asked R for a refund for the first two nights, a total of £115. R refused to provide a 
refund as it said Ms T had made use of the room. So, Ms T asked HSBC for a refund. It 
considered the claim under the Visa chargeback rules but said it couldnt help as Ms T and 
her family were given an alternative solution and compensation which they accepted. Ms T 
also made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 but HSBC said the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link for such a claim to be considered was broken 
as the booking had been made via a third party. Ms T wasnt happy with this response so 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had acted fairly. She said there was nothing in the 
chargeback rules about alternative solutions and she thought any alternative given should 
meet or at least closely resemble the description of the service paid for. As for section 75, 
our investigator didnt think the DCS link was broken and so HSBC should have considered 
that claim. Had it done so, she thought HSBC would have found thered been a breach of 
contract. As a result, she thought HSBC should refund Ms T the £115 shed paid for the first 
two nights of her stay. 
HSBC didnt agree with our investigator. It maintained its view that the DCS link had been 
broken as the retailer wasnt the provider of the service. It also thought it had handled the 
chargeback claim fairly. As HSBC didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but for slightly different reasons so I sent a 
provisional decision to Ms T and HSBC to give them an opportunity to comment. Ms T said 
she had nothing further to add, while HSBC said it would accept the outcome as it had no 
further information to send us. So, my findings and my decision below are substantially the 
same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
Ms Tis unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plcdidnt refund hera payment she madeon her 
credit cardfor a hotel booking. reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the way the investigator proposed to settle this complaint. But 
for slightly different reasons. Let me explain.
Ms T used a credit card to pay for the room booking, which means that section 75 is relevant 
to this case. Section 75 allows Ms T to hold HSBC responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded. But 
there are certain technical criteria that have to be met for a section 75 claim to be valid. One 
of those is that there must be a DCS arrangement in place. This means that the creditor 
(HSBC) must provide credit that finances a transaction between the debtor (Ms T) and the 
supplier (R).
HSBC said that R is clearly an online travel agency and not the provider of the service. And 
cannot therefore be seen as the supplier for the purposes of the section 75 DCS link. Ive 
considered what HSBC has said. But Im satisfied there isnt a break in the DCS link in this 
case. When booking the hotel room, Ms T paid R, not the hotel. She therefore entered into a 
contractual relationship with R. And R provided a service to Ms T by introducing her to the 
hotel and booking her familys stay there. So, I think the position is that there is a valid DCS 
agreement between Ms T and HSBC for the financing of services provided by R. 
Having established that the necessary arrangements exist for a claim under section 75, I 
now need to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by R. 
In this context, misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that induced Ms T to enter 
into the contract. The transaction receipt from R shows that Ms T booked a superior room for 
four nights accommodation for four people. When she arrived at the hotel, it said there had 
been a mistake as they only had superior rooms for two people. R accepted it had made a 
mistake. In an email it sent to Ms T two days after she arrived at the hotel, it apologised for 
the inconvenience and said it had detected a failure in the type of room between the 
provider and the hotel. 
So, Ms T paid for a room for four people and got a room for two people. As such, the service 
provided by R wasnt as it described, and Im satisfied its description induced Ms T into 
entering into the contract. So, I think the hotel room was misrepresented by R. As Ms T 
didnt receive the service she paid for, I think theres also a breach of contract here. 
HSBC is jointly liable for that misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75, and 
I think it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for HSBC to do more to put 
things right.
HSBC also considered Ms Ts claim for a refund under the chargeback rules. But I see no 
need to consider whether it handled Ms Ts claim fairly under those rules as Im satisfied it 
should have provided a refund under section 75. 
Putting things right
In cases such as this, my aim is to put the consumer in the position they would have been in 
if the misrepresentation or breach of contract hadnt happened. The relevant law says there 
are a number of ways of remedying situations where there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, including a price reduction or, if the consumer has already paid, a refund. 
In this case, Ms T has had some benefit from the service she paid for so I dont think it would 
be fair to ask HSBC to refund the whole amount she paid. Ms T has asked for a refund of the 
first two nights of her stay and, on balance, I think thats fair. Theres no doubt that Ms T 
benefited from some of the services provided by the hotel. She had a double room for four nights and she was given another double room free of charge after two nights. But shes also 
outlined the difficulties she faced, including the disappointment of arriving at the hotel and 
being told it couldnt meet her booking. Her family of four then stayed for two nights in a 
room for two. Ms T slept on the floor for two nights. And, even after they were given another 
room, this was not ideal as the family were split between two rooms, something Ms T had 
wanted to avoid.
In all the circumstances, I think a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint would 
be for HSBC to refund Ms T £115. That is, the cost of the two nights accommodation when 
Ms T and her family of four were in a room for two. I also think HSBC should add 8% interest 
if Ms Ts credit card account would otherwise have been in credit.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should do the 
following:
re-work Ms Ts credit card account as if £115 had not been paid, refunding any 
payments made, interest and charges in respect of that amount; and
if this calculation results in a credit balance, it needs to refund this and pay interest 
on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said credit balance to 
the date of settlement1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give Ms T a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.