DRN-2916184
The complaint
Mrs O thinks that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans, treated her unfairly 
when it lent her money in January 2018.
What happened
In January 2018, Likely Loans lent Mrs O £2,500, which Mrs O agreed to repay, with 
interest, over 24 months. The monthly repayments were £189.91, and if Mrs O made all her 
payments on time, shed pay £4,557.84.
Mrs O thinks Likely Loans was irresponsible to lend her the money. She says it shouldnt 
have agreed to give her the loan as she was having problems with her finances at the time 
including with gambling. 
Likely Loans has said it has upheld Mrs Os complaint and has made an offer to remove all 
interest from the loan, leaving the capital amount to repay minus repayments Mrs O has 
made. It has also said it would remove any adverse information on Mrs Os credit file.
Mrs O didnt accept Likely Loans offer and said she felt it should do more and suggested the 
capital amount should also be waived. She has more recently said it should at least waive 
half of the capital amount.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did Likely Loans carry out proportionate checks?
Ive looked at what Likely Loans asked. It says that when it decided to agree the loan it used 
the information it received from Mrs O in her application together with information it received 
from a credit reference agency. It said it used this information in an internal credit scoring 
model and carried out a standard credit assessment.
Ive looked at Likely Loans record of Mrs Os application. This says Mrs O told them she had 
an annual gross income of £19,400 a year and had £440 in outgoings. Ive also looked at the 
information Likely Loans received from the credit reference agency. It concluded that Mrs O 
met its affordability criteria at the time.
First of all Im mindful that the rules that applied to Likely Loans at the time said it shouldnt 
accept an application where it suspected that the customer hadnt been truthful in completing 
the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness assessment. I think 
its unlikely that Mrs O would have had so small amount of expenses considering what it saw 
she had committed to repaying on the credit search it carried out in addition to any other 
monthly expenditure such as bills. 
The information provided by Likely loans from the credit search is not in any detail and is 
more of a summary. And so, it has been difficult to see what the full credit search would 
have shown Likely Loans at that time. In addition, the detailed credit file Likely Loans 
submitted in response to this complaint was created when it investigated Mrs Os complaint, 
and not at the point it lent Mrs O the money. So, I cant be certain to what extent the 
information it used in its affordability checks reflect the amounts show on the detailed credit 
report it has submitted.
But it was important for Likely Loans to consider whether it was sustainable for Mrs O to take 
on additional credit based on what it had in front of it. I have seen enough here when I 
consider the amount of existing debt Mrs O had in relation to what she had disclosed her 
expenditure to be, that makes me conclude that further checks were appropriate. Especially 
due to the length and amount of the loan that she was asking for. So, on balance, I dont 
think the checks it carried out were proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Likely Loans?
Ive gone on to consider what further checks would have revealed. Mrs O has sent us some 
bank statements  they are not complete with dates missing. In most of the statements 
provided, only a few days at a time have been provided. But they are from a matter of weeks 
before the loan was taken out and in the absence of better information, I think what is given 
in these statements are the best information I have of what further checks would have 
revealed.
The statements as they have been submitted, demonstrate that Mrs O was spending a 
significant amount on internet gambling. Based on what Ive seen, then, Mrs O was 
borrowing more money at a time when she was having difficulties and spending a lot on 
gambling transactions. So, I think there would have been a concern that she was having 
serious problems managing her finances. 
For these reasons I think that if Likely Loans had carried out further checks I think its likely it 
would have realised that further lending wasnt sustainable. I think it wouldnt have lent Mrs 
O the money. And so, I think Mrs O has lost out.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Likely Loans and Mrs O did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Likely Loans and Ms O have not responded. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I uphold Ms Os initial complaint about Likely Loans irresponsibly 
lending to her. 
Putting things right
Mrs O says Likely Loans should write off the capital amount that she was lent. More recently 
she has said it should write off half the capital amount. Likely Loans has already offered to 
put things right by removing all interest, fees and charges but as I have concluded above it 
ought to have known about Mrs Os gambling problems, and so I have considered whether it 
should do more to put things right in this case. In doing so, when I consider Mrs Os request, 
I do think she has had use of the money and also when I consider how much is left 
outstanding to repay and that there is the likelihood that a payment plan can be agreed by the parties, I think it is fair and reasonable in this case that she should pay back what she 
has had use of. 
So, with that being the case, Likely Loans needs to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. If Mrs O 
has made any payments Mrs O made, they should be deducted from the new starting 
balance  the £2,500.00 originally lent. 
I can see that there would be a balance to repay. Likely Loans should exercise 
forbearance when it looks to collect on the remaining balance, if Mrs O is 
experiencing financial difficulty. Both parties should engage with each other and look 
to find a fair payment plan for the repayment of the remaining balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance Limited to 
put things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman