DRN-4392605
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr M began researching investments and came across a company Ill refer to 
as N. He researched N and found positive reviews, so he completed an enquiry form and 
was contacted by someone claiming to be a broker.
The broker requested a copy of Mr Ms passport and driving license to open an account with 
N. He also told him to download a screensharing application and to open an account with a 
cryptocurrency exchange company. He said hed make trades on Mr Ms behalf, and that he 
could log into his trading account to see his live trades and profits.
The broker asked Mr M to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load it onto an online wallet. Between 4 March 2021 and 30 April 2021, 
he made six transfer totalling £20,560 from his Santander account.
On 4 March 2021, Mr M made an initial investment of £200, followed by a payment of £800 
on 10 March 2021, and £4,500 on 16 March 2021. This payment was blocked by Santander 
and during the subsequent call, Mr M was asked if he'd checked N was registered with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He was also warned about using AnyDesk and told that 
scammers tell victims to lie and that its important to know where payments are going. Mr M 
said he was investing in Bitcoin, and the payment was approved.
When Mr M tried to make a withdrawal, the broker became aggressive, and he realised hed 
been the victim of a scam. He complained to Santander, and it agreed to refund £500, which 
was 50% of the payments hed made on 4 March 2021 and 10 March 2021. It said the 
payment had been reviewed under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and 
it accepted it had failed to identify the transactions were high risk or to provide an effective 
warning. But it said the CRM code didnt apply to the payments hed made between 16th 
March and 30th April 2021 because they were to an account in Mr Ms name and moved on 
from there.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and so he complained to Santander. He accepted it had contacted him 
on 16 March 2021, but he said it failed to ask probing questions and if he was warned the 
investment could be a scam, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.
Mr Ms representative said Santander should have intervened as he made six payments to 
two new payees within the space of eight weeks. They said the pop-up messages werent 
effective and it should have asked more questions on 16 March 2021 as it was a high value 
payment to a new payee which was associated with cryptocurrency. They said that if it had 
asked Mr M what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, he would have 
fully explained what he was doing, in response to which Santander should have provided a 
scam warning, which would have prevented his loss.
My provisional findings
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr M says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Santander had said the CRM code doesnt apply to 
the payments Mr M made from 16 March 2021 onwards because the payments were to an 
account in Mr Ms own name, and I was satisfied that was fair.
I was also satisfied Mr M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
It's not in dispute that this was a scam, although Mr M didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Santander is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether Santander could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Santander ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments 
were part of a wider scam, so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to 
warn Mr M when he tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments 
on an account, Id expect Santander to intervene with a view to protecting Mr M from 
financial harm due to fraud.
I considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr M normally ran his account. The first two payments were low 
value and so even though they were to a new payee, I didnt think Santander needed to 
intervene beyond the new payee warning.
Santander did intervene on 16 March 2021 when Mr M paid £4,500 to a new payee. During 
the call, Mr M said he was buying cryptocurrency and that hed contacted the company 
himself. He was given a scam warning which included information about impersonation 
scams, and I agreed this wasnt relevant to the scam. And even though he said hed 
checked the FCA website and that hed contacted the company himself, as the investment 
involved cryptocurrency, I thought the call handler should reasonably have asked some 
more questions about the circumstances of the investment including how Mr M learned 
about the investment, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed been 
told to download remote access software or whether hed been allowed to make small 
withdrawals.
However, if he had been asked these questions, I didnt think there was enough information 
to enable Santander to identify this as a scam. There were no regulatory warnings with 
either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) websites. And Mr M came across N while researching investments, 
so there wasnt a red flag relating to how hed learned about the company.
Mr M wasnt promised unrealistic returns and he was satisfied hed done due diligence. Hed 
seen positive reviews online about the company and he was reassured because he had to provide ID to open the account. He clearly trusted the broker who he thought was 
knowledgeable and professional and he was able to see his trades on the trading platform.
So, I didnt think there was anything the call handler could have said in addition to what was 
said on 16 March 2021 which would have changed his mind about the investment or 
anything it could have advised him to do which would have uncovered the scam.
So, while I thought Mr M could have been asked more questions during the call on 16 March 
2021, I didnt think this represented a missed opportunity in circumstance which could have 
prevented his loss. 
I thought about Santanders comments regarding Philipp v Barclays Bank plc, but as Id 
concluded that better intervention from Santander wouldnt have made a difference to the 
outcome, I didnt comment on that point.
Developments
Mr Ms representative has responded to say he doesnt accept the findings in my provisional 
decision, arguing that its unfair to assume the call handler wouldnt have been able to detect 
the scam. 
They have said that I have referred to scam hallmarks including Mr M having seen positive 
reviews, the use of a trading platform and the fact he built a trusting rapport with the 
scammer, but I placed a greater onus on the absence of a warning on the FCA or IOSCO 
websites. They have argued that Santanders staff are trained to spot scams and that they 
wouldnt check the FCA and IOSCO websites during calls, instead relying on whether there 
are hallmarks present to reveal that something is untoward. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further points raised on Mr Ms behalf, but I maintain my view that there 
wasnt enough information to enable Santander to identify the investment as a scam.
I accept regulatory warnings with either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) websites are not necessary 
to identify an investment as a scam, but the existence of such a warning would have been 
one way for Santander to identify the investment as a scam. And, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, in the absence of such warnings, Im not persuaded that there was any 
other information which would have helped it to identify that Mr M was being scammed.
Mr Ms representative has said that there were hallmarks present including positive reviews 
online, the use of a trading platform and him having built a trusting rapport with the 
scammer. But I dont agree these features are clear scam indicators and I would expect 
typical red flags to include unrealistic returns, cold calls, a celebrity endorsement, or a 
complete lack of due diligence, none of which were present. And this, coupled with the fact 
Mr M had seen positive reviews online and clearly trusted the broker means I dont think 
Santander could have reasonably detected the scam or that its failure to do so represented a 
missed opportunity. Because of this, I maintain my view there wasnt anything the call 
handler could reasonably have said in addition to what was said on 16 March 2021 which 
would have changed Mr Ms mind about the investment.Therefore, Im sorry to hear Mr M has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santander is to blame for this and so it doesnt need 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman