DRN-4259241
The complaint
Miss T complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund a series of transfers she lost to a scam.    
What happened
Miss T believed she was talking with an experienced, professional trader who could help her 
learn how to invest her money. She already had an account with a cryptocurrency exchange 
called Binance and was asked to use that account to transfer cryptocurrency into a trading 
platform. She was given log-in details to a website that would allow her to view the trades 
being carried out on her behalf by the professional trader and she could see returns on her 
investment. Miss T made the following payments to Binance:
25/8/22 £1,000.44 Binance
25/8/22 £10.66 Binance
16/9/22 £3,409 Binance
26/9/22 £4,990.74 Binance
26/9/22 £250 Binance
29/9/22 £6,500 Binance
29/9/22 £20 Binance
Miss T was told the two larger payments of £4,990.74 and £6,500 were brokers fees that 
had to be paid in order for her returns to be withdrawn. Miss T was then asked for more fees 
but was unable to gather together the funds to pay for these. She stayed in contact with the 
trader for many months after that point but eventually cut contact and blocked them due to 
the amount she had lost. 
Miss T contacted Revolut towards the end of January 2023 and made them aware that she 
had been scammed. Revolut looked into it and explained that as Miss T had not previously 
let them know about the scam, they needed further information from her to be able to 
investigate effectively. Because of this, they did not uphold her complaint at that time.
Miss T referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They 
explained that the transactions in question did not appear to be unusual in comparison to 
Miss Ts normal account activity. This is because Miss T had previous used Binance for 
genuine transactions and even had a small credit into her account from trading in 
cryptocurrency. And the general pattern of spending also matched the genuine activity. 
Though they did think a general warning for the £6,500 payment was reasonable, 
considering it was a little higher value than the rest. Despite this, due to the convincing 
nature of the scam, they did not think this would have revealed the scam to Miss T.
Miss Ts representative responded and disagreed with the outcome. They felt that as over 
£11,000 had been sent to a high risk crypto-currency exchange in a few days, Revolut 
should have intervened. And that Revolut should be held to the same standard as a bank, 
despite it being an Electric Money Institute (EMI).
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Miss T has been the victim of a scam. She was asked to pay significant 
fees just to access her returns and this did not lead to a withdrawal, which is typical of this 
kind of scam.
As has already been highlighted, these transactions are not covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. The CRM is a voluntary code, which Revolut has not 
signed up to. However, I still have to take into account other relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss T authorised the payments as she believed they were part 
of a legitimate investment.  So, while I recognise that Miss T didnt intend the money to go to 
scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow Miss Ts 
instruction and process the payment. Because of this, Miss T is not automatically entitled to 
a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers and payment service providers to protect their customers from fraud and 
financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might 
suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character 
transactions and trying to prevent customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought 
about whether Revolut did enough to try to keep Miss Ts account safe.
Ive considered Miss Ts normal account activity in comparison to the transactions in 
question, to see if they were significantly out of character. In doing so, Ive considered Miss 
Ts representatives comments about the fact Revolut is an EMI and not a traditional bank. 
This means that they operate in a different regulatory framework, however they do still have 
a basic duty of care to their customers. 
Looking at Miss Ts statements, I can see that the account had only been open for a few 
months prior to the transactions occurring, so there is not a lot of information to compare the 
scam activity to. From account opening to the date of the scam transactions, Miss T would 
generally credit the account, convert the funds to U.S dollars and then often send funds to 
Binance. Because of this, the pattern of behaviour for the scam payments followed the same pattern of behaviour as Miss Ts genuine account activity. Considering Miss T selected the 
account opening reason as gain exposure to financial assets, the payments to Binance 
would not have flagged as unusual simply because they were to a cryptocurrency exchange.
I do appreciate Miss Ts representatives comments that a relatively large amount of money 
was sent to Binance over a few days, and I do agree the payment of £6,500 was higher than 
previous payments. Though there was a steady increase in the amounts sent to Binance, so 
this alone would not have necessarily been enough to warrant significant intervention by 
Revolut. I do agree with the Investigator that a general Investment warning could have been 
provided by Revolut in this instance, but due to the nature of the scam and the fact Miss T 
had carried out due diligence on the trader she thought she was dealing with (who the 
scammer had likely impersonated), I think it is unlikely this would have revealed the scam. 
As the transfers went to an account in Miss Ts own name, and the funds were then sent on 
to the scammers wallet prior to her making Revolut aware, there was nothing that could be 
done to try and recover the funds. 
On balance, while Revolut could have provided a general warning for the payment of £6,500, 
I dont think this would have revealed the scam, so I dont think they need to refund Miss T 
with the lost funds. And once Revolut was made aware of the scam, there was nothing 
further they could do to try and recover the funds lost to it. So, I dont think they need to take 
any action to remedy the complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman