DRN-3355385
The complaint
Mr G complains that One Insurance Limited (One) has unfairly handled a claim under his 
motor legal insurance.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In November 2019 Mr G was involved in an accident that led to the total loss of his 
vehicle. Mr G said a third-party building company (Company A) were responsible for 
this due to their actions leading to a flood.
Mr G sought to claim on his One Insurance motor basic legal policy.
One considered action against Company A but subsequently determined this 
complaint failed to have reasonable prospects of success. 
A previous complaint has been considered by this Service about Ones handling of 
the claim and its solicitors decision on the claim itself. So, I wont go over these 
points again within this decision.
Mr G complains that One did not provide a vehicle following the incident and says it 
has unfairly refused to pay the costs he incurred hiring a car for two weeks. He was 
also unhappy with the solicitors firm who One appointed and said they had provided 
unclear information. He also has raised concerns about how One handled his 
complaint, and said its agents werent available.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint in part. She 
said the policy terms didnt require One to provide a vehicle in his circumstances so 
she wouldnt direct it to pay Mr Gs hire costs. She agreed One had given conflicting 
information and caused delays, and awarded £150 in compensation.
Mr G disagreed, saying Company A was at fault for the accident  regardless of 
whether One decided to not pursue a claim against them. And he said Ones 
complaint handling was not reflective in the compensation award.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Mr G has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by all parties.
For clarity, the main issue Im considering in this decision concerns whether One 
shouldve provided Mr G with a hire-car or settled the hire costs he incurred. 
Mr Gs policy specifies it wont provide a vehicle in the event of a fault accident. Im 
satisfied this is clear within the policy wording.
Mr G hasnt disputed these terms are present, and hes been clear he believes 
Company A is responsible for the accident. 
But simply, its not enough for there to be a potential third party that couldve been 
responsible here. There needs to be an acceptance or ruling that the third party in 
question (Company A) is at fault. And here, that hasnt happened. 
Mr G feels this isnt his fault as One couldve proceeded with action against Company 
A. But this wasnt supported by the legal advice it received  and which this Service 
has already considered under a separate complaint, and which I wont revisit. 
For these reasons, in line with the terms of the policy and in these circumstances, Im 
satisfied theres no requirement for One to cover Mr Gs hire costs. And Im not 
directing it to do anything further.
Ive gone on to consider Mr Gs remaining concerns that werent covered by the 
previous complaint considered by this Service.
One hasnt disputed that one of its nominated agents werent capable of taking the 
claim forward due to its specific subject matter. On its face, this seems avoidable. 
One hasnt responded to our Investigators view on this matter, so Ive not been given 
anything to satisfy me this wasnt a mistake. 
Mr G has raised concerns specifically about Ones complaint handling. This, in itself, 
isnt a regulated activity. So, it isnt something Im going to comment on further.
Overall, Im satisfied One has made mistakes and avoidable delays. Having 
considered this carefully, Im satisfied a sum of £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint and direct One Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr G £150 in compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman