DRN-4146587
The complaint
A company which Ill call D complains that WorldPay (UK) Ltd treated them unfairly by 
applying the wrong fee rate to certain transactions. 
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by its director, Mr P.
What happened
D told us:
In February 2019 they had signed up with another provider, however based on 
promises made by WorldPay regarding service and costs they cancelled this 
agreement and signed a new contract with WorldPay. 
They didnt receive confirmation on the terms of the contract and werent made 
aware that the pricing they had initially agreed upon could change  provided they 
were given written notice. And the terms provided by WorldPay are dated 7 months 
after they signed their agreement.
Worldpay unfairly increased the fees and charges on their account and despite being 
asked, havent provided evidence that D was made aware of these increases. They 
also havent had an account manager to discuss these changes with since they 
signed their contract.
WorldPay hadnt provided the information they had requested about the fee 
increases
WorldPay told us:
As per its agreement with D, it had sent email confirmation giving the two-month 
warning of the fee and charge increases to the email address it held on file - which D 
confirmed theyd received other emails into.
The emails had been addressed to the business rather than Mr P personally as its 
agreement was with D.
It didnt offer account managers to small and medium business customers. 
It was unable to provide the proof D wanted that the emails were sent as this 
contained confidential information. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
WorldPay had contacted D when it had increased its charges and given them two months to 
cancel their agreement in line with the terms and conditions, and that this had been sent to 
the correct email address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
D says that they have been treated unfairly by WorldPay as it didnt make them aware of the 
fee increases that had taken place since they signed their contract in 2019  but Im not 
persuaded thats the case. I say that because Ive seen evidence that emails advising 
WorldPay customers of fee increases were sent to the email address it held on file for the 
company  it is also the same email address D had corresponded from to WorldPay, and the 
email address provided to this service for D. D has also confirmed that it received other 
emails from WorldPay so I think its unlikely the business used a different email address 
simply to send the increase in fees to.
 
Ive also seen evidence from WorldPay that shows D was included in its customer mailout to 
advise of the fee increases, and it has told us there was no bounce back to say that the 
email hadnt been received as expected  which would have alerted it that there was an 
issue and it needed to contact D using an alternative method. So I think it was reasonable 
for WorldPay to believe that D was aware of the increase in charges. D has queried why the 
email evidence they were given were headed test and addressed to them, rather than Mr P, 
as they believe this means the emails werent generated at the time. However WorldPay has 
explained this is due to how historic emails are retrieved from its system and they are 
addressed in that way as its relationship is with D rather than just Mr P  I think this is 
reasonable and Im not persuaded this means the emails werent sent.
 
I acknowledge that D has requested this information from WorldPay and is unhappy that this 
information hasnt been shared with them. However, WorldPay has explained that this is 
because some information was held on a legacy system which is no longer available and the 
information which is available contains other customer information. It has provided us with 
evidence showing fee emails and letters were dispatched to D. And based on what Ive 
seen, I think its likely thats the case. 
However, even if I accepted Ds view that the emails werent received, Ive seen that the 
monthly invoices provided to D do show the breakdown of each of the fees they were 
charged. I think its reasonable to believe that if WorldPays fees had increased so frequently 
and by so much, that D would no longer want to continue with their contract, D ought 
reasonably to have seen this on their monthly invoices within the two-month period given by 
WorldPay to exit the agreement  or potentially renegotiate the fees as they did at a later 
date.
D is also unhappy that they havent had an account manager since 2019 to make them 
aware of the fee increases. However, WorldPay has told us that it doesnt offer account 
managers to small and medium size businesses. I recognise that D believes this is unfair, 
however this is a commercial decision that WorldPay is able to make in how it chooses to 
provide a service to its customers, and I havent seen anything in the evidence provided by 
both parties that says this was part of the service that D had signed up for  or indeed on 
which the agreement was based. So I dont think WorldPay treated D unfairly. 
 
D says they have now moved to a new merchant services provider who is offering lower fees 
similar to those originally offered by WorldPay, so the increase has been purely profit related 
rather than due to costs of providing the service. Its not for me to tell a business how much it 
can charge its customers, thats a commercial decision it can take. I would only intervene if I 
thought its customer had been treated unfairly, and Im not persuaded thats the case here. 
WorldPay has explained in its correspondence to D that some of the increases to fees and 
charges have been imposed by the card providers, and therefore were outside of its control. 
And with regards to the other fees, I think WorldPays terms are clear that if a customer is 
unhappy with any increases, they are free to exit their contract within two months of 
receiving the notification of any increase. So customers arent obligated to stay and can seek an alternative provider without incurring a penalty  which is the action D took. So I cant 
reasonably say WorldPay did anything wrong here.
 
I recognise that Mr P will be disappointed with this as he wanted WorldPay to refund all the 
increased fees and charges D had incurred since taking out their agreement. However, 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think WorldPay is responsible for the financial detriment that 
Mr P believes is the case  so I wont be asking it do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman