DRN-3460138
The complaint
Mr J complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow.co.uk) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr J had two loans from Cash4unow between October 2018 and January 2019 as shown 
below:
Loan Date Amount Term Four-weekly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 6 Oct 2018 £200 6m £57.52 8 Mar 2019 2 Jan 2019
2 2 Jan 2019 £300 6m £95.34 24 Jun 2019 Outstanding
Mr J says Cash4unow failed to carry out proportionate checks before lending to him. He 
says he was borrowing further to repay existing loans and he is now stressed due to 
struggling to pay his bills. Mr J says his credit file would have shown he was already in 
financial difficulty.
Cash4unow says it conducted a credit check and asked Mr J about his income and 
outgoings before each loan. It says it verified the income figure and found there was nothing 
of concern in the credit check. Cash4unow says its checks showed the repayments were 
affordable, but it said Mr J told it he was made redundant in March 2019. Cash4unow offered 
to reduce the outstanding balance from £498.20 to £430.
Mr J did not accept the offer and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Cash4unow said the offer would be revoked if Mr J referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found its checks 
were proportionate and didnt consider the available information or the pattern of lending 
indicated the repayments were unsustainable for Mr J.
Mr J requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Loan 1
Im satisfied that Cash4unows checks went far enough for this loan because:This was Mr Js first loan with Cash4unow;
The repayments were just over 3% of his income;
Cash4unow says it verified Mr Js income;
Mr J was asked to declare his living expenses;
The credit check showed:
oOne County Court Judgement from 54 months ago;
oOne default from late 2017;
oOne short-term loan;
oOne account with late payments in the last 12 months;
Cash4unow calculated Mr J had over £1,000 of disposable income with which to 
make the £57.52 repayments.
Although, Mr Js credit file showed some adverse data, much of it was historical and not 
unusual for someone borrowing in the sub-prime market. There was nothing to indicate that 
Cash4unow needed to carry out further checks and the affordability calculation suggested 
the repayments were sustainably affordable. Im satisfied, therefore, that Cash4unow made 
a fair lending decision for loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr J made three repayments on time for loan 1 and then repaid it on the same day he took 
out loan 2. Cash4unow carried out the same checks again, and again I find those checks 
were proportionate even though the repayments had increased slightly to over 5% of Mr Js 
income. The credit check did not show any further adverse information and, excluding the 
data it included for loan 1, Mr Js credit file showed a slightly improved picture. The 
affordability calculation showed Mr J had over £1,200 of disposable income before the new 
loan repayment, although this didnt include any existing credit commitments.
So, I cant conclude Cash4unow was irresponsible to have approved loan 2.
I note Mr J didnt make any repayments towards the second loan until March 2020 after it 
had been sold to a third-party debt collection agency. However, Cash4unow says that, in 
March 2019, it was notified by Mr J that hed been made redundant and so it is reasonable to 
assume that the repayments may have become became unaffordable to Mr J shortly after it 
was approved. But I cant conclude that Cash4unow should have found the loan to be 
unaffordable at the point of application.
In summary, I find Cash4unow carried out proportionate checks for both loans and that those 
checks indicated both loans were affordable to Mr J.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 Amanda Williams
Ombudsman