DRN-4065961
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) didnt sufficiently warn her 
that the investments within her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) would change as a 
result of her amending her retirement age on its online system. She says this caused her a 
financial loss. 
What happened
On 31 March 2022, Mrs J changed her selected retirement age from 60 to 65 on Aegons 
online system. Later that day Aegon sent Mrs J an email confirming shed updated her 
retirement age and that it had amended its records with this change. And, on 8 April 2022, 
Aegon wrote to Mrs J saying her instruction to switch investments in her SIPP had been 
carried out, enclosing a statement confirming this. 
In April 2022, Mrs J complained to Aegon via her financial adviser that, in summary, the 
online process wasnt clear that a fund switch would be made upon her changing her 
retirement age. She said she was just experimenting with the retirement goals and updated 
her profile, without any warning of the impact on her investment fund. 
In August 2022, after Mrs Js financial adviser seemingly asked Aegon to complete a loss 
calculation, it said it could request a price comparison if Mrs J decided to switch back into 
her original fund. And, in October 2022, Aegon sent Mrs J its final response letter. It said, in 
summary, that it acted in line with the information Mrs J input on its system, after she had 
been made aware of the potential impact of this on her investments. It said that as Mrs J is 
invested in a Lifestyle fund the changes she made automatically initiated a switch to realign 
her to the correct stage of her fund path. And Aegon said it would only carry out a calculation 
if it had made a mistake, which it didnt think it had. Although it said it would send Mrs J a 
hamper to make up for its delayed response to her complaint. 
Shortly after, Mrs J switched her investments back into the original fund. And, in         
January 2023, unhappy with Aegons response, she brought her complaint to our Service. 
Mrs J added, in summary, that she was only checking if her pension was on track and her 
profile was up to date, in the way the system encourages. And that she thought it was just a 
tool to see different scenarios rather than implementing changes. Mrs J said if she makes 
changes to her pension then she does this through her financial adviser rather than alone. 
And that, while she received an acknowledgment of the age change, there was no indication 
her funds would be switched and she wasnt made aware this had happened until several 
weeks later. Mrs J said that her fund losses continued to increase while she was waiting for 
Aegons delayed final response, until her adviser recommended she switch her funds back.  
One of our Investigators looked into it and said Aegon had given Mrs J sufficient information 
to make her aware that changing her retirement age could impact on her investment fund, so 
it wasnt responsible for her losses. And that, in any case, Mrs J could have switched her 
funds back sooner to mitigate this. Our Investigator also said the time Aegon took to give its 
final response letter is complaint handling, which doesnt fall within the remit of our Service. 
 
Mrs J didnt agree. She added, in summary, that she didnt receive Aegons letter dated        
8 April 2022 until a few weeks later, at which point she contacted her financial adviser. She 
said that if Aegon provided a warning on the online system then this wasnt clear and it didnt 
ensure she fully understood what would happen. Mrs J said shes been told the portal has 
since been updated. And that she didnt look at the support guide when changing her 
retirement age to know this could impact her investment mix, given she wasnt intending to 
switch funds. Mrs J said she didnt switch her funds back sooner, as she didnt want to 
change her approach during the complaints process and because Aegon indicated it had 
done something wrong when it said it could do a price comparison. Mrs J also said Aegon 
hasnt acted in line with the response timescales set by the regulator, compounding the 
impact on her. And that she didnt know what the hamper was for and found this insulting. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
Investigator. Ill explain why.
The purpose of the Lifestyle fund, which Mrs J doesnt seem to dispute she was invested in, 
is to automatically move a persons investments from higher to lower risk assets as they 
approach their selected retirement age. This is set out in the SIPP terms and conditions that 
I think Mrs J is likely to have been provided with and agreed to when she enrolled in it. 
These also say that if she changes her retirement age then Aegon will take action within 60 
days to ensure the Lifestyle fund and unit holdings she has corresponds to the amended 
age. And the online platform guide made available to Mrs J confirms under Important things 
to remember about changing your retirement age that if shes invested in a Lifestyle fund 
then this will automatically adjust based on her new retirement age. So I think Aegon 
provided Mrs J with enough information to make her reasonably aware that changing the 
retirement age on her pension meant her investments could be sold and reinvested, without 
needing a particular instruction from her. 
Aegon has sent us screenshots of what it says Mrs J would have seen at the time she was 
using its online system. And I can see that under the section headed Preferred retirement 
age, before a box in which Mrs J could change this, she was shown a clear message which 
began with Please be aware. The first sentence said that changing her retirement age 
would impact her available fund at retirement. And the second said that If you invested in a 
Lifestyle fund changing your retirement age may also impact your investment mix.. Mrs J 
was then presented with the option to either Submit her changes or go Back to wrapper 
summary. So I think Aegon gave Mrs J clear enough information at the time to make her 
aware she was making changes to her actual pension rather than just using a planning tool, 
and that changing her retirement age might affect her funds.  
The email Aegon sent Mrs J later that day confirmed shed changed her recorded retirement 
age on her pension. And Aegon wrote to Mrs J eight days later, on 8 April 2022, explaining 
investment switches had been carried out and what these were. I think Aegon sent this to 
Mrs J in a reasonable timescale and that it was enough to sufficiently confirm shed made 
changes which impacted on her actual pension fund. Especially when taken alongside the 
information Mrs J had already been given on Aegons online system. I appreciate Mrs J said 
she didnt receive Aegons letter until weeks later, but I can see it was correctly addressed 
and I cant hold Aegon responsible for the time it took her to receive this in the post. Mrs J said Aegons delayed response and misinformation during the complaints process 
compounded matters, causing her to lose out more. While Aegon suggested it could do a 
price comparison if Mrs J switched her funds back, it was yet to give its final response at that 
point. And, in any case, Mrs J didnt need to wait for Aegons final response before switching 
funds. She and her financial adviser continued to be responsible for her investments, 
including taking steps to minimise any losses by switching back to her original fund in the 
way she wanted. 
In summary, for the reasons given, I think Aegon gave Mrs J clear enough information to 
make her aware shed made changes to her pension that might impact her funds. So I cant 
fairly hold Aegon responsible for the resulting losses Mrs J says she incurred. And this 
means Im not asking it to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint against 
Scottish Equitable Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman