DRN-3731143
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr D holds with HSBC UK Bank Plc. It 
will be due for repayment in 2025, and HSBC has turned down Mr Ds request for a term 
extension. Mr D thinks thats unfair.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr D and HSBC. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr D being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The mortgage started in 2008, as a joint interest-only mortgage over a 20-year term; in 2014, 
the mortgage was changed to Mr Ds sole name over a shorter term intended to coincide 
with him reaching age 65 in 2025. 
In 2022, Mr D spoke with an HSBC mortgage adviser who indicated he could apply for a 
term extension to coincide broadly with him reaching age 75. However, when the application 
was referred to underwriters, it was declined. When Mr D complained, HSBC rejected the 
complaint, and referred Mr D to us. Our investigator wasnt persuaded HSBC had treated 
Mr D unfairly so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr D has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mr D borrowed money from HSBC, and under the term of his 
agreement with HSBC, is due to repay the money when it falls due for repayment in 2025. 
The available evidence suggests thats because he doesnt wish to yet, rather than because 
he cant. HSBC has been sending Mr D reminders about the impending term end since 
2020, something he thinks is excessive. However, its something the FCA expects lenders to 
do.
No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public. Also the decision is made by HSBCs mortgage underwriters, and not 
the mortgage advisor who recommended he apply for it. The advisors recommendation to 
apply for the extension in no way bound HSBC to grant it.
Here, HSBC has not given Mr D any detail about its reason for the refusal; its told us, albeit 
in confidence, which it is allowed to do. Its then up to my discretion whether I should 
consider evidence given in confidence when deciding a complaint. Here, I think it is 
reasonable to do so; the information in question is material to the outcome. But it is also at 
the same time commercially sensitive as it goes to HSBCs lending criteria and should 
therefore not be made public. All I can reveal is that the application failed to meet several of 
HSBCs criteria for extending the term of an interest-only mortgage, not just one individual 
criterion.
Mr D has pointed out that HSBC has agreed to extend the term on another interest-only 
mortgage he holds; he argues that if one mortgage can be extended, the other should be as 
well. I dont agree with that reasoning. As Mr D had told us himself, the repayment strategies 
in place for each mortgage are different; so its only right that each request be considered on 
its own individual merits.
On that latter point, Mr D has expressed a concern that HSBC has wrongly implied that he 
had proposed the same repayment provision be considered for both mortgages. Ive given 
this point a lot of thought. The internal notes do include mention of this as a possible point of 
concern for the underwriters; but the context is merely that of something needing 
clarification; i.e. a question needing to be asked and answered, internally. 
As Ive already said, the application failed on more than one of HSBCs lending criteria; that 
the same provision might potentially be being considered to repay two mortgages doesnt 
seem to me to have been material to the outcome. Ultimately, the judgement on whether to 
grant the term extension was HSBCs to make, not Mr Ds, and not mine either. Im satisfied 
HSBC gave fair consideration to the application, and reached its decision after applying its 
lending criteria.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from his submissions how important this is to Mr D. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as he is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
Having done that, and having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, I dont find that HSBC has treated Mr D unfairly. In essence, all its expecting him 
to do in 2025 is what he said hed do when it agreed the mortgage in his sole name in 2014. 
Mr D has said this will force him to sell the mortgaged property, but its not clear to me why that is, given the provisions he has told us he has had in place all along. In his email of 
17 October 2022, Mr D has listed those provisions and, in his own words, described them as 
very adequate.
Mr D doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor HSBC 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr Ds right to take legal action against HSBC over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman