DRN-2901406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK plc declined an application to port their existing 
mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Santander. In late March 2020 they applied online to port 
the mortgage to a new property. But because of the coronavirus pandemic, Santander was 
unable to accept any direct applications. So, Mr and Mrs M contacted a mortgage broker to 
submit the application on their behalf.
An application was submitted by the broker in April 2020. Mr and Mrs M only wanted to port 
the amount they already owed, but after speaking to the broker, were told they could borrow 
more. So, they proceeded with an application for a higher amount. Santander considered the 
application, but it eventually declined it in June 2020. Santander said it needed a continuous 
track record of Mr M being in temporary employment for at least a year. 
Mr and Mrs M, via their broker, tried to challenge this. They explained that due to changes in 
tax legislation, Mr M had gone from a self-employed contractor to a PAYE employee. But he 
still worked for the same company doing the same job. Santander said that his previous self-
employed income didnt reflect his current employment type. It stood by its decision to 
decline the porting application. Mr and Mrs M say they also offered to reduce the borrowing 
to the amount they currently owed so there would be no additional risk to Santander, but 
Santander has said it has no record of this. 
Mr and Mrs M managed to complete the house purchase using their savings, but they 
incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £7,800 upon redeeming the Santander 
mortgage. They complained to Santander asking for the ERC to be refunded. Santander 
stood by its decision to decline the porting application and didnt uphold the complaint. So, 
Mr and Mrs M referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought that there was evidence that Mr M 
hadnt changed his type of work, and that it was government legislation that was the reason 
for the changes to his employment and pay status. She felt Mr M had tried to explain this, 
but Santander wasnt willing to listen. She thought that Santander shouldve been less 
restrictive with its approach and agreed to Mr and Mrs M porting their existing borrowing. So, 
she recommended the ERC be refunded together with 8% simple interest.
Mr and Mrs M had also mentioned that theyd lost out because of having to take money from 
ISAs. However, our investigator explained there was no guarantee Santander wouldve 
agreed the additional borrowing so she didnt think Santander should compensate them for 
this element of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M accepted our investigators opinion. But Santander didnt. It repeated that Mr 
M didnt have a track record with his new temporary contract. It said that Mr Ms previous 
income was much lower than the amount he was now being paid. It also noted that there 
had never been a formal application for borrowing the same amount. Had there been, it 
didnt think it wouldve been able to process this application in time for Mr and Mrs M to 
complete the mortgage within their required timescales. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review and 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Santander says the lending was declined because Mr M had started a new temporary 
contract relatively recently and didnt have continuous twelve months of employment history. 
Furthermore, Santander wasnt happy to lend because Mr Ms recent P60 showed a 
significant amount lower than the income he was declaring.
However, Mr M did explain why his employment situation had changed. He had been 
affected by a, relatively well publicised, change to tax law  IR35. And he provided various 
forms of evidence that he was doing the same job for the same company. So, whilst this may 
not have strictly met Santanders lending criteria, Mr M was still working in the same field, 
and doing the same job for the same company. It was just government tax legislation 
changes which had required he move from a self-employed contract to a PAYE contract. I 
think Santander shouldve looked at this application in a more pragmatic way than it did.
As for his P60 showing a reduced income, this was due to Mr M having relocated from 
abroad where he worked and previously paid his taxes. The P60 and tax returns he 
submitted only showed a few months of UK based earnings. Then following this, it 
represented part of his earnings via his Limited Company  again not for a whole year in the 
UK. And again, I note Mr M did explain this to Santander. I also note that Santander agreed 
the original mortgage based on Mr Ms income abroad.
I do agree Santander was entitled to decline the additional borrowing  this is a legitimate 
exercise of its commercial discretion. However, Mr and Mrs M were able to proceed on the 
basis of not using any additional borrowing and just porting the existing amount. Given that 
the loan to value of the new property would be less than that of their existing property, the 
risk to Santander wouldve been lower. And the regulators rules allow Santander to agree to 
this without further affordability checks if it believes its in the customers best interests.
Santander says it has no record of Mr and Mrs M ever asking to port the existing amount 
and even if it did, it still could have applied its current lending criteria. However, Ive been 
provided with a copy of an email on 23 June 2020 from Mr M to a Santander mortgage 
advisor where he specifically states he wouldve been happy with borrowing the current 
mortgage amount as he had savings to cover the rest of the deposit. Santander has 
provided a statement from this mortgage advisor saying a colleague took over this 
application. Its clear there has been some confusion and I dont know why the request for 
the same level of borrowing wasnt formally acted upon. There were also calls between Mr M 
and Santander about porting from 19 June 2020 where Mr M said he was happy to just port 
the existing mortgage. These also appear to have been overlooked by Santander. This is 
likely due to Mr M speaking with multiple members of staff. And it likely wasnt helped by the 
fact that Mr M was contacting Santander directly and via his broker. However, I am satisfied 
he did make Santander aware that he could proceed without increasing his borrowing and 
would be keen to do so if he avoided paying the ERC. And this shouldve been something 
Santander considered and potentially pro-actively offered to Mr M. It was clear he was taking all the steps he could to avoid paying the ERC, and this shouldve been an option presented 
to him.
Santander has also said that once Mr M appealed the decision, it wouldnt have been able to 
get a new mortgage offer out in time to meet the deadlines being imposed by the seller of Mr 
and Mrs Ms new property, even if it had agreed to lend the lower amount. This may be the 
case. But I also note that Santander took over two months to decline Mr and Mrs Ms original 
application. Whilst this was likely due to the coronavirus pandemic, I dont feel Mr and Mrs M 
should suffer financially as a result of this.
Santander has pointed out that Mr and Mrs M were able to purchase the property using cash 
from their savings so will benefit from not paying interest on a mortgage now. This is correct, 
but theyve also lost out on being able to invest these funds as they previously were, so 
wont benefit from any potential growth. So, I dont think this argument is relevant. 
Lastly, its worth noting that Mr and Mrs M had less than a month until the ERC wouldnt 
have applied. They needed to proceed with the purchase due to coronavirus restrictions 
easing, the seller having made arrangements for this, and not being certain how long this 
would be for. Given how close the end of the ERC period was, I also dont think its fair and 
reasonable for Santander to have charged it given the fluid situation of the coronavirus 
pandemic at the time.
Overall, I dont think Santander considered Mr and Mrs Ms individual situation fairly, nor did 
it consider the individual circumstances around Mr Ms change in employment status. 
Putting things right
To put things right Santander should refund the ERC with 8% simple interest from the date it 
was charged to the date it is refunded.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman