DRN-2501448
The complaint
Mrs H complains Elderbridge Limited (Elderbridge) failed to update her credit file, at the 
correct time, that a debt she had with it was satisfied. She says this has affected her ability 
to get a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs H was in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). Elderbridge was a creditor of Mrs H 
at the time as it had taken over a debt from a bank. 
In May 2019, the insolvency practitioner (IP) acting in Mrs Hs IVA wrote to all creditors to 
notify them the IVA was to be discharged. A copy of this letter was sent to W who had been 
dealing with the debt on Elderbridges behalf.
In July 2020, Mrs Hs independent financial advisor (IFA) says, after discussing the matter 
with him for just under a year, she came into his office to start the remortgage process. He 
says Mrs H thought the IVA and any related debts had been removed from her credit file but 
this wasnt the case. As a result, the application couldnt go ahead at that point. 
Mrs H says she contacted Elderbridge on numerous occasions to resolve this but hadnt 
been successful. She sent us evidence of calls made to them in July and August 2020. In 
July 2020, the IP who acted in the IVA also wrote to them to ask them to update Mrs Hs 
credit file. 
As Elderbridge didnt amend the credit file, Mrs H complained to them and our service. To 
put things right, she wanted the record on her credit file backdating to show the debt as 
satisfied and compensation for the time she spent chasing it. Since bringing the complaint to 
our service, she says the broker now cant get her a mortgage due to the current economic 
conditions and shell have to wait until things pick up. Mrs H says this was caused by 
Elderbridges delay.
Elderbridge say they updated the credit file as soon as they became aware of the discharge 
in August 2020. However, Elderbridge agreed Mrs H had suffered some inconvenience and 
offered Mrs H compensation of £25 in recognition of this. 
Our investigator looked into matters and thought it was reasonable to have expected 
Elderbridge Mrs Hs credit file shortly after W was notified of the discharge in May 2019. But, 
he also felt that, from everything hed seen, it wasnt until July 2020 that the error came to 
light or started to cause an issue for Mrs H. By that time, it was already the pandemic and so 
he didnt feel he could say the slow action by the business had resulted in Mrs H being 
unable to get a mortgage. Even so, taking everything into account, he didnt feel the sum 
offered to Mrs H adequately recognised the trouble and upset she was caused. So, he 
upheld this complaint and asked Elderbridge to pay a total of £200 compensation to Mrs H. 
Elderbridge accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mrs H disagreed. She made a number of points including the following:
 
She contacted her IFA in August 2019 but no application could be made due to the 
debt as it was showing as outstanding. She then started to contact Elderbridge 
around September 2019 about this. 
The second meeting with the IFA in July 2020 was because she thought the situation 
had been resolved. It was only at this point she started to formally log everything and 
brought her complaint to our service.
Elderbridge hasnt offered her anything - she says the letter Elderbridge sent in 
response to her complaint went to an address she hasnt ever lived at.
Ultimately, as a result of Elderbridges failure, she could couldnt apply for a 
mortgage in 2019 and adhere to the agreement made at court to use her best 
endeavours to put the mortgage into her sole name. She says this situation wouldnt 
have occurred if it hadnt been for Elderbridges failure to update her credit file when 
it should have.
She feels £200 compensation is completely unjust following the level of stress and 
anxiety this has caused and continues to cause. And she doesnt feel this holds 
Elderbridge to account  she says there arent any sanctions and the fine is not even 
a slap on the wrist to them.
Mrs H and our investigator communicated further about these points. However, our 
investigator still felt he didnt have enough to be satisfied that Elderbridges actions resulted 
in a failed attempt to apply for a mortgage before July 2020. As a result, his view on the 
complaint didnt change.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. And I think he set out the position clearly about why he felt Elderbridge needed to 
increase the compensation to a total of £200 to put things right. So, theres not much I feel I 
can usefully add to what has already been said.
The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. Elderbridge has admitted it got things 
wrong  it didnt update Mrs Hs credit file when it should have and there were examples 
where Mrs H was given customer service which fell below the expected level. The key issue 
I have to decide is whether the things Elderbridge has done to put this right, including the 
amount of compensation its now agreed to pay overall, is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate what Mrs H has said about the impact on her. And I think its right that 
Elderbridge should put things right. But I also think its important to explain that, as a service, 
our awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish organisations. The regulator 
here is the Financial Conduct Authority. At our service, we look at the impact any mistakes 
have had on the consumer concerned in the particular complaint that has been brought to 
us. I can see from what has been said by Mrs H that she found this very stressful. But I think 
Elderbridge took steps to reduce the impact of what had happened. Elderbridge has agreed to increase the compensation it pays to Mrs H for the inconvenience 
caused by its mistakes regarding her credit file and customer service. It also apologised for 
the poor service it gave her and corrected her credit file.
Finally, Im not ignoring the fact that Mrs H has said theres been an impact on her ability to 
apply for a mortgage. But I havent seen sufficient or persuasive evidence to be able to say 
its more likely:
Elderbridges delay in updating her credit file stopped Mrs H from being able to make 
an application for a mortgage until July 2020; and
The application wouldve been successful at that point but for the delay. 
I say this for a number of reasons including those outlined below.
The IFA says Mrs H first called him to discuss a remortgage in August 2019 but it 
wasnt until she went into his office on 16 July 2020 with the hope of submitting the 
remortgage application. 
The IFA also says he would have only considered there being a chance of 
remortgaging when the IVA and associated debts were showing as satisfied on her 
credit reports. But that when Mrs H first contacted him in 2019, he felt fairly confident 
of being able to remortgage her property with a specialist lender.
Whist I recognise Mrs H says shed been chasing Elderbridge since 2019 about this, 
I havent seen any evidence of this from Mrs H or in Elderbridges files. The first 
contact Ive seen from Mrs H to Elderbridge about updating her credit file was in July 
2020  the day after she met with her IFA. I note this is reflected in both the 
information shes sent us and the contact notes from the business.
In August 2020, Elderbridge asked for Mrs Hs credit file to be rectified as a result of 
her communications with it.
Mrs H noticed her credit file had been updated on 2 September 2020 and contacted 
her IFA the next day. 
The reason the IFA says he wont now be able to proceed is due to the current 
economic conditions. However, by July 2020 the pandemic was already well 
established. And I havent seen any evidence the impact of this on mortgage 
applications wouldve been different between one made in mid-July 2020 and one 
made 6 weeks later at the beginning of September 2020. 
Its fair to recognise that Mrs H had a complex financial background - for a specialist 
lender to consider - with an IVA starting in the 6 years before the application. So, I 
dont think I could fairly or reasonably say the outcome of the application was more 
likely to be a success even if the credit file had been updated. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable to increase the amount 
of compensation the investigator has recommended should be awarded in this case. I think 
the £200 Elderbridge has agreed to pay is fair and reasonable compensation in this 
particular case along with what it has already done to put things right. 
I know Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve her dispute with Elderbridge  can do for her.  
Putting things right
Elderbridge should increase the compensation to Mrs H to a total of £200 to put things right.   
My final decision For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. To put things right, Elderbridge 
should pay a total of £200 compensation to Mrs H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman