DRN-3981854
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society has refused to refund the money she lost 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Miss F met a man (who I will call Mr H) on a dating website who, over the course of 
three-months, persuaded her to lend him more than £20,000, which he has not since 
repaid. Mr H has since pleaded guilty to fraud by false representation. And Miss F has 
obtained a County Court judgement against Mr H ordering him to pay her £20,850 plus 
costs.
Miss F reported the fraud to Nationwide, but it refused to refund any of the transactions. 
The society said the matter was a civil dispute between Miss F and Mr H. But, in any 
event, even if it had intervened  which it didnt think it ought to have  the society didnt 
think this would have prevented the scam given the circumstances of the payments and 
Miss Fs relationship with Mr H. Miss F didnt agree with Nationwides findings, so raised 
a complaint with us.
Our investigator thought Miss F had been scammed and Nationwide should have 
reimbursed the money she lost in line with the requirements of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code. But Nationwide disagreed  it maintains that this is a civil 
dispute and says the complaint ought to be dismissed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for much the same 
reasons.
Should I dismiss this complaint?
The rules under which we operate say I can dismiss a complaint without consideration of the 
merits in various circumstances including, under DISP 3.3.4A, where:
(3) The subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings where 
there has been a decision on the merits.
I dont agree with Nationwide that the subject matter of this complaint has been decided in 
court. As set out above, a County Court has ruled that Mr H owes Miss F money and Mr H 
has pleaded guilty to fraud by misrepresentation. But the complaint Im being asked to 
consider is whether Nationwide ought to reimburse Miss F. That matter has not been 
considered by the courts.
I appreciate Nationwides concern that it might reimburse money which Miss F has already, 
or may in the future, obtain directly from Mr H. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss F 
has received any money back from Mr H yet and the likelihood of him repaying anything in 
the future seems slim. Also, Miss F has agreed to indemnify Nationwide in the event that it 
does reimburse her, but she later manages to recover any money from Mr H.
In all the circumstances and having considered all of the possible dismissal reasons, I dont 
think its appropriate to dismiss this complaint.
Is this case covered by the C Contingent Reimbursement Model Code?
Theres no dispute that Miss F made the 27 disputed payments to Mr H (and one to his 
mother) from her Nationwide account. That means they were authorised by her. So the 
starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the account terms and 
conditions is that Miss F is responsible for the payments along with any resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Miss F should have received 
a refund of the money she lost under the provisions of the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). 
Nationwide has signed up to the Code and the starting principle is that it should reimburse a 
customer who is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam except in limited 
circumstances. 
But the Code doesnt cover private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. I think 
this is the exception Nationwide is referring to when it talks about the matter being a civil 
dispute between Miss F and Mr H.
So I first need to decide if this is a civil dispute of if Miss F has fallen victim to a scam. 
I accept, as Nationwide seems to be suggesting, that the situation in which Miss F found 
herself was not entirely typical of the romance scams we tend to see. It started with initial 
contact being made through a dating website and thats common to many romance scams. 
But whats more unusual here is that Miss F and Mr H did then meet in person a number of 
times and I note Miss F loaned her car to Mr H. At first glance, this might look like a genuine 
relationship between two people. 
But, in this particular case, I dont think that means Miss F wasnt scammed. Nationwide has 
accepted that Mr H lied to her and the money probably wasnt used to pay for the things 
Miss F thought they were being loaned to cover. And the evidence Ive seen, including 
media reports about the Magistrates Court case, suggests that it goes further than that.
I think Mr H deliberately set out to deceive Miss F  he struck up a false relationship with her 
and persuaded her to give him money which he had no real intention of repaying. I say this 
not least given that he has pleaded guilty  and been sentenced to more than two years in 
prison  to fraud by false representation. Overall, Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
Mr H acted fraudulently.
So Im satisfied that Miss Fs claim should be considered under the provisions of the Code.
Should Nationwide reimburse the money Miss F has lost?The Code sets out standards which Nationwide must adhere to and this includes prevention 
measures. In effect, Nationwide must take reasonable steps to provide its customers with 
effective warnings whenever it identified an APP scam risk in a payment journey. 
But the Code places a level of care on Miss F too. And Nationwide may choose not to 
reimburse Miss F if it can establish that:
Miss F ignored what the Code refers to as an effective warning in relation to the 
payments she made.
Miss F made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was 
the person she was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with she transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the Code, but none that apply in this particular case.
Nationwide says it didnt consider the payments Miss F made to Mr H to be significantly 
unusual given the historic activity on her account. In effect, I think the society is saying it 
didnt identify a scam risk, so it wasnt required to give any effective warnings. I dont entirely 
agree with that assertion, given the pattern that started to form fairly rapidly after Miss F first 
set up Mr H as a new payee. But, the more important point here is that if Nationwide didnt 
give any warnings then it follows that Miss F cant be said to have ignored any effective 
warnings.
I also dont think Nationwide hasnt done enough to establish that Miss F didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing she was loaning money to Mr H which he intended on paying 
back. I say this having considered what Miss F has told us and having read the extensive 
messages that passed between Miss F and Mr H. 
Despite what Nationwide has said, it seems clear to me that the relationship between 
Miss F and Mr H (and the related scam) started on 23 May 2021, just five days before the 
first disputed payment was made. They may have first met towards the end of the previous 
year. But the messages Ive seen suggest a relationship had not developed  largely due to 
Mr Hs unreliability  and there had been a gap, likely of some months, before Mr H 
instigated contact again on 23 May 2021.
The first suggestion that Miss F might help with Mr Hs medical bills came from Miss F and 
subsequent discussions about Mr Hs money troubles and Miss Fs further offers of help 
were interwoven with discussions about their daily lives, phone calls and face-to-face 
meetings. The messages show that, at times, Miss F expressed concern that Mr H might be 
stringing her along often because he kept cancelling the plans they had made to meet up. 
But I think Mr H provided plausible, convincing explanations  including hospital admissions, 
supported by photographs  which allayed Miss Fs fears. And I dont think these explanation 
were so far-fetched that Miss F ought to have had concerns that Mr H might be acting 
dishonestly in order to persuade her to part with her money.
In all the circumstances of the complaint, I think Nationwide ought to have reimbursed 
Miss F in accordance with the provisions of the CRM Code.
Putting things right
Miss F sent 27 payments to Mr H between 28 May and 27 July 2021, totalling £19,990 and I 
think Nationwide should refund all of those payments.
Miss F also sent one payment of £820 to what seems to have been Mr Hs mothers account during that timeframe. But that payment was also made at Mr Hs instigation  to cover 
money his mother had loaned to him to pay his mortgage  as part of this scam. And Ive 
seen nothing which suggests Mr H or the recipient has since returned that money. So 
Nationwide should refund that payment too.
Nationwide need not reimburse the final payment Miss F made to Mr H  £265 on 3 August 
2021. Thats because the messages Miss F exchanged with the scammer around that time, 
and the official MOT records, suggest that money was used to pay for repairs to her car and 
MOT tests. 
I think, if Miss F hadnt fallen victim to this scam, the money she paid away would likely have 
remained in her savings account, earning interest.
With this in mind, and for the reasons outlined above, I think Nationwide Building Society 
should:
Refund £20,810 to Miss F.
Add interest on the above refund calculated at Miss Fs originating savings account rate 
from the date the claim was declined  which appears to be 27 October 2021  to the 
date settlement is made.
If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the interest award, it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I instruct Nationwide Building Society to 
settle the matter as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman