DRN-1552879
 
The complaint
Mr Z complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc , in 1983, recommended a with-profits 
mortgage endowment promising that the policy would pay out the figures shown in the 
personal quotation. He is unhappy that the recent estimated maturity value (from the 
provider, Standard Life) is far less than he expected.
What happened
RBS said that even though Mr Z told them in a phone call that hed received "...no formal 
financial advice in respect of the policy", it had still looked at whether the policy was 
appropriate for his circumstances and concluded that it was. Any issue to do with the 
performance of the policy was the responsibility of the provider. Mr Z did make a complaint 
to the provider but this service did not uphold it.
An investigator at this service noted that Mr Z's recollections about what happened in 1983 
were - not unsurprisingly given the time lag - vague. Also, that the documentation is sparse. 
But according to Mr Z this policy had been an endowment one designed to tip-up his 
existing protection so he had sufficient cover for a prospective repayment mortgage; this 
may have been a condition of the mortgage.
The investigator felt there was nothing to suggest the policy wasnt appropriate for Mr Z's 
needs at the time. He also felt there was no evidence that RBS gave any guarantee to Mr Z 
about how much the policy would pay out at maturity, or that it had mis-represented the 
policy benefits to Mr Z
Given the regulatory requirement at the time  limited to the common law standard 
applicable at the time of reasonable skill and care  he didnt believe the complaint could be 
upheld.
Mr Z did not agree, and said:
He didnt accept  the difference between having to take out this policy as a condition 
of the mortgage even though he made monthly reductions to the balance and all the 
PPI claims that the banks have spent billions on in compensation
True, he decided to repay the mortgage as quickly as possible but then the vast 
majority of PPI claimants would never have to claim on their policies. Also those PPI 
claimants would be making monthly repayments to their loans. In short the 
repayment timeframe is irrelevant, what is relevant is having to take out an insurance 
policy to get a loan
Further, the quotation given at the time indicates how much the policy would 
produce; this had not proved true  and was not worth the paper it was written on
He also reiterated his concerns about the bonuses, especially the terminal bonus, and why 
he felt the information had been either misleading or inaccurate.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same reasons. As I am satisfied they considered all Mr Z's evidence and 
responded appropriately, I will not repeat all the points they made.
I would however like to stress one important consideration. This advice took place and 37 
years ago so it is entirely understandable that RBS has very limited paperwork and that 
there is no reliable record of what was discussed; with even Mr Zs evidence being partial. 
Given this, I do not believe there is sufficient persuasive evidence to safely conclude that 
RBS did something wrong.  
My final decision
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman