DRN-2909021
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected two cheques they attempted to 
use to fund a savings account with another business. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs D attempted to fund a fixed rate bond operated by another 
business by writing a cheque. Mr and Mrs Ds cheque was presented for payment by the 
other business. But Barclays said the signature didnt match its records. Barclays says it 
tried to contact Mr and Mrs D but were unable to speak with them. So a letter was sent and 
the cheque cancelled. 
Mrs D visited a Barclays branch and provided an up to date copy of her signature. Mrs D 
also issued another cheque to fund their new savings account.  
The second cheque was referred for further verification and ultimately rejected by Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs D complained and Barclays said they shouldve been told about other ways to 
make their payment when visiting the branch. Barclays didnt agree the decision to reject the 
cheques was wrong but offered Mr and Mrs D £200 to apologise for the service provided. 
Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to this service and told us they thought Barclays 
should pay them the interest they wouldve made if the funds had been saved in a five year 
fixed rate bond as planned. Mr and Mrs D have told us the funds have been placed in an 
instant access account with a low rate of interest since March 2020. Our investigator thought 
Barclays had dealt with Mr and Mrs Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
In response Mr and Mrs D said they didnt have answer phone messages from Barclays that 
show it tried to call. Mr and Mrs D also explained that paying by cheque was their preferred 
method of moving their money. As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator their 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that they were satisfied with how the branch staff handled their 
visit. Mr and Mrs D have also explained that paying by cheque was their preferred method of 
payment and that they were aware of other ways to transfer funds. Ive considered whether 
Barclays made an error when it declined the pay the cheques Mr and Mrs D sent to their 
new savings provider. 
Barclays says that when it sought to verify the cheques it tried to contact Mr and Mrs D over 
the phone. Mr and Mrs D have explained they dont recall missing calls from Barclays and 
didnt receive answer phone messages. Barclays has provided copies of its contact notes. 
They show that on two separate occasions in October 2019 Barclays processed cheques 
from Mr and Mrs D that had been presented for payment. On each occasion, the contact 
notes say Barclays tried to contact Mr and Mrs D over the phone. Their numbers are copied 
into the contact notes and match the details Mr and Mrs D have provided to us. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D didnt receive answerphone messages, but I think Barclays was 
attempting to discuss the cheque with that at the time of processing. After Barclays was 
unable to get through, the cheque was declined and a letter was sent instead. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs D but Im satisfied that was a reasonable approach. 
Mr and Mrs D have asked Barclays to cover the interest they will miss out on over the next 
five years as a result of Barclays decision to reject the cheques. Im not persuaded thats a 
fair approach. Mr and Mrs D have said they subsequently placed their money in a low 
interest instance access account. Whilst I understand rates may have reduced, I looked at 
industry press that shows the products available in November and December 2019. I found 
that the new savings provider offered a five year fixed rate bond of 2.18% in October 2019 
and reduced it to 2.03% in November and December 2019. I agree the rate reduced, but I 
havent been persuaded Mr and Mrs Ds only option after their cheques were rejected was to 
place their funds in an instance access account. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs D feel the decision to reject their cheques was unreasonable, 
Im satisfied Barclays reviewed them and found they required additional verification. Barclays 
has systems in place to help protect customers funds from fraud. I appreciate there was 
nothing irregular about the payments in question, but Im satisfied Barclays decision to carry 
out further checks and ultimately reject Mr and Mrs Ds cheques was fair and in line with the 
account terms.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D but for the reasons Ive given above, I havent been 
persuaded to uphold their complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs D are happy with the service 
they received in branch so I havent commented on the advice provided. Barclays has 
offered Mr and Mrs D £200 to settle the complaint. Should they wish to accept, our 
investigator can contact Barclays and arrange payment on their behalf. As Im satisfied 
Barclays has dealt with Mr and Mrs Ds complaint fairly, Im not telling it to increase its offer 
or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman