DRN-2383253
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Monzo Bank Ltd has handled his personal data. He said he was 
caused worry and inconvenience when he was told to change his personal identification 
number (PIN) as a precaution. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Monzo notified all customers of an internal security breach, where it discovered data 
could be accessed by engineers. It explained the breach had been fixed and all 
incorrectly stored data deleted. 
The email sent to customers explained their account had been checked and hadnt 
been used for fraud because of the issue. But it recommended customers update 
their mobile apps and change the PIN on their cards as a precaution. It explained 
that if someone was abroad at the time, they could change their PIN when they 
returned to the U.K. 
Mr B didnt tell Monzo he was out of the country nor did he contact it to explain he 
wouldnt be able to change his PIN for a couple of weeks. Mr B continued to use his 
card in the meantime and didnt use the freeze function within the mobile app which 
would have prevented any transactions taking place on the account.
Monzo offered Mr B £25 compensation which I think is reasonable. This service isnt 
able to punish or fine businesses. Where something has gone wrong, we look at 
what has been done to put matters right. In this case, Monzo acted quickly to fix the 
breach and update its customers on what had happened. 
Mr B has explained this matter caused him a lot of worry on top of his underlying 
medical condition. While I appreciate Mr B would have been concerned that 
someone could have accessed his data, I cant award compensation for things that 
might have happened. Had Mr B been a victim of fraud as a result of the breach I 
would have expected Monzo to rectify the situation, thankfully this didnt happen. Im 
also mindful there were steps Mr B could have taken to reduce some of that worry 
until he was able to change his PIN. Overall, I think the compensation offered, 
recognises Mr B was put to some trouble and upset by what had happened. I wont 
be making any further award.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman