DRN-2468602
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Arval UK Limited has unfairly charged her for damage to a car she had 
under a regulated hire agreement.  
What happened
In December 2017 Mrs S entered into a hire agreement with Arval. Under the agreement 
Arval would supply her with a new car for three years, with a minimum rental period of 12 
months. Mrs S was to make monthly payments of £219.
The hire agreement provided that, at the end of the hire term or earlier termination, Arval 
would inspect the car. It would then invoice Mrs S for any damage that was not fair wear and 
tear in accordance with BVLRA (British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association) guidelines. 
Mrs S would also have to pay an excess mileage fee above 30,000 miles or a pro rata 
mileage if the contract ended early. 
Mrs S ended the hire agreement in July 2017, as she was entitled to do. 
Arval inspected the car. It said that there was damage which went beyond normal wear and 
tear. This included:
dents or scratches to both front doors;
dents or scratches to both rear doors;
dents to both front wings;
a burn to the carpet; and
uneven and excessive tyre wear.
It prepared a report which estimated the cost of repairs, including two new tyres, at £989.
Mrs S did not accept that she was liable to meet these costs. She referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered what had happened. He considered the 
report that had been prepared and compared the damage  evidenced by photographs  
with the BVLRA guidelines. Having done so, he was satisfied that the damage did go beyond 
normal wear and tear as set out in the guidelines and that Arval was therefore entitled to 
charge Mrs S for that damage. It had not treated her unfairly. 
Mrs S did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. She suggested that the damage had been caused after the car had been returned, 
including suggesting that the tyres had been changed between collection and inspection.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar 
reasons. 
I should mention that, in her response to the investigators findings, Mrs S commented that 
the investigator had not proved and could not prove that the damage was not caused after 
she returned the car. That is of course correct, but I fear Mrs S has misunderstood the role 
of this service. It is not for us to provide evidence; rather, it is for us to consider the evidence 
that is available and to decide, on the basis of that evidence, what the facts are. Generally, 
we will do that on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is more likely to have happened 
 as a court would in a civil dispute. And that is what I have done here.
The car was new when Mrs S acquired it. It is reasonable to assume that there was no 
damage of the type in the inspection report at that point. I must therefore consider whether it 
is more likely that the damage to the car was suffered while it was in Mrs Ss possession or 
after she returned it to Arval. I cannot rule out the possibility that Arval caused some or all of 
the damage. I cannot even rule out the possibility that Arval switched the tyres as Mrs S has 
suggested  although that would be surprising. 
On balance, however, I think it more likely that the inspection report was an accurate record 
of the cars condition when Mrs S returned it. I do not need to discuss each and every point 
in it, since the investigator has already done that. Whilst Mrs S has said that we cannot be 
100% certain that any damage occurred while she had the car, I do not believe that I need to 
be. Her suggestion that Arval caused some or all of the damage is no more than that  a 
suggestion, unsupported by any evidence. 
I am satisfied therefore that the inspection report was accurate and that Arval was entitled to 
charge Mrs S for the damage. I think it treated Mrs S fairly in doing so.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Arval UK Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Mrs Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman