DRN-1523750
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited increased Mr and Mrs Bs home 
insurance policy premium at renewal by 26%. Mr B took out insurance elsewhere but 
believes CIS didnt treat them fairly.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought their home insurance policy with CIS in July 2015 and had renewed it 
with them each year. In June 2019 CIS sent Mr and Mrs B a renewal notice. 
Mr B noticed that the premium had gone up by around 26% even though they hadnt made a 
claim. So he called CIS. CIS said the premium had been correctly calculated. He said it told 
him it was offering a 20% discount for new customers. 
Mr B thought this was very unfair and so he complained to CIS. In the meantime he bought a 
policy with another insurer. Mr B said that having to look for a policy elsewhere was 
inconvenient and time consuming. This coincided with a change to Mr Bs health. So he felt 
CIS should compensate him for the inconvenience it had caused. 
CIS explained that it had made changes to its risk model over the previous year and so the 
premium it had quoted was correct. It explained that Mr B was free to shop around for a 
more competitive price. CIS said that in common with the insurance industry, it offers a 
discount to new customers. But it said If Mr and Mrs B had reapplied for their policy as a new 
customer, the discount would have been available to them. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator checked that 
CIS had correctly calculated Mr and Mrs Bs renewal premium. He thought there wasnt 
anything wrong in CIS offering a discount to attract new customers. And because it gave 
existing customers the option to apply for a policy online with the discount offered to new 
customers, he thought CIS had acted reasonably. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said CIS didnt treat them fairly. He said it isnt fair to ask an existing 
customer to go through the hassle of reapplying for a policy  and offering a discount to new 
customers isnt fair either. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
 
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where an insurer offers automatic renewal under a policy, it usually writes to a customer 
about a month before the renewal date. This gives the customer a chance to consider the 
terms of the new policy and decide whether to accept them. And it gives them time to shop 
around for a more competitive price. Policyholders are free to reject the renewal offer from 
an insurer and go elsewhere. 
In this case CIS wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 10 June 2019. The renewal date was 17 July 
2019. So I think CIS gave Mr and Mrs B plenty of time to consider the price and to shop 
around. CIS also said:
You have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover 
you want at a better price if you shop around.
I think CIS gave clear information as to the options available to Mr and Mrs B.
We dont interfere with the price an insurer sets as its entitled to make a commercial 
decision about that based on the risk it wishes to take on. This differs from insurer to insurer 
and is why we see such a range of prices when we look on comparison websites for a quote. 
And as this information is commercially sensitive, insurers dont share how it decides a 
premium  or how it underwrites its business - with the open market. 
However, we can ask an insurer to provide this information to us so that we can check if its 
treated its customer fairly. Im satisfied from the information CIS has provided that the 
premium it quoted Mr and Mrs B at renewal was correct. 
It isnt unusual for insurers to offer a discount as an incentive to attract new customers. So it 
isnt something we would say is wrong. In this case, CIS said that if an existing customer 
applied for a new policy, the discount would apply. I understand that Mr B doesnt think this 
is fair. And I appreciate that Mr B was unwell at the time when he received CIS renewal 
notice. But I think Mr and Mrs B had the choice to either; save time and accept CIS renewal 
quote - or spend some time looking on the open market for cover at a more competitive 
price. CIS made Mr and Mrs B aware of their options five weeks before the renewal date, 
which I think was fair. 
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen Im satisfied that 
CIS has treated Mr and Mrs B the same as it would any other customer in their 
circumstances and so I think it has treated them fairly. This means I dont think CIS should 
compensate them for the inconvenience of shopping around for a more competitive 
premium.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman