DRN-3987944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain, via their representatives, about delays and missed appointments 
from their home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, in response to their claim for subsidence at 
their leasehold property. References to AXA include their agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P own a property that they rent out. In November 2018 they informed AXA of a 
subsidence issue affecting the building. AXA accepted the claim and appointed a loss 
adjuster to manage the claim.
Mr and Mrs P said the loss adjuster didnt come to their property to see the damage and no 
progress was made with their claim over several years. Mr and Mrs P said the repairs to the 
drainage have been cancelled twice and other visits cancelled. And they said AXA took the 
policy excess payments from them twice. 
Mr and Mrs P are in poor health and said the delays and poor communication have 
adversely affected them. They said their claim is now over four years old and still 
outstanding and they want it to be resolved by repairs to the damage. Mr and Mrs P said 
they have had to reduce the rent as the property is losing value and their tenant is having to 
pay a very high premium to insure the property. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to AXA in 2021 about the length of time the claim was taking and 
the cancellation of repairs. AXA provided its Final Response in January 2022, paying £250 
compensation and giving Mr and Mrs P six months to refer their complaint to our service. Mr 
and Mrs Ps representatives didnt refer the complaint to us but subsequently made another 
complaint to AXA. AXA sent a further final response in October 2022. Mr and Mrs P were 
unhappy with this, and their representatives referred their complaint to us in November 2022.
AXA said an appointment with its agents for 30 June 2022 went ahead as arranged. It said 
on 8 June its agents told Mr and Mrs P that they were awaiting a street license to carry out 
repairs and that its repair team would complete other works on 30 June 2022. AXA said its 
agents also visited the property in July and August 2022. AXA said its agents found it difficult 
to arrange appointments with Mr and Mrs P as they would only accept a specific technician 
who wasnt always available. 
AXA said it has a duty to validate the loss, which can take time, but it apologised for delays 
in obtaining the street license and investigating if the excess was collected twice and paid Mr 
and Mrs P £250 compensation. It said it had asked its loss adjuster to progress the claim, 
and investigate the complaint. AXA also paid £25 as the response to the complaint was 
delayed.
Our investigator said we can only investigate complaints from 5 January 2022 as this was 
the date of AXAs final response on the complaint and it wasnt referred to us in time. He 
said we cant look at a complaint about loss of rent as this hasnt been brought to AXA yet. 
The investigator said subsidence was impacted by third party vegetation and discussions 
about this were progressing. He said there were issues with the drain repairs, but this didnt 
delay the claim as the trees need removal. The investigator said AXA caused delay in 
applying for a street licence to investigate the subsidence, but he thought the compensation 
paid by AXA was fair for the poor service it provided. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives said they disagree with the investigator about the 
compensation. They didnt think it reasonable that site investigations for their claim werent 
completed after four years. This had affected their rent claim and continuing delays and 
failed appointments post-August 2022 hadnt been considered. They requested an 
ombudsman review their complaint.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about the problems Mr and Mrs P have faced with their claim and their 
poor health. I have looked closely at the information about the claim to see if AXA has acted 
in accordance with the terms of the policy and to see if it has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly.
Mr and Mrs P have mentioned their complaint about their loss of rent. This issue hasnt been 
addressed by AXA and so Mr and Mrs P will need to raise this with AXA first before we can 
consider this issue. Mr and Mrs Ps representatives said there was a failed appointment in 
January 2023. Again, this hasnt been raised with AXA yet and occurred after its final 
response to the complaint raised by Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives want us to consider the whole four-year period of the claim.  
AXA sent a final response to the complaint in January 2022. However, Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint wasnt referred to us until November, after they had made a follow-up complaint 
that AXA sent a new final response letter to in October 2022. This was well outside of the 
six-month time limit set within AXAs January letter. For us to be able to look at the issues in 
AXAs letter of January 2022 we would need AXAs permission, which we dont have, or 
there would need to be exceptional circumstances, which we havent been made aware of. 
This means we can only consider events that occurred after AXAs letter of January 2022 up 
to its latest final response to the complaint in October 2022. 
I have looked at the relevant period to see if AXA or its agents caused avoidable delays and 
other poor service. AXA arranged an appointment at Mr and Mrs Ps property for 30 June 
2022 to carry out some repairs and this appears to have gone ahead as planned. AXAs 
agents found a blocked drainage which was thought to be the responsibility of the water 
authority. From what Ive seen a dispute arose about the cause and was ongoing after AXAs 
final response to the complaint. I agree with the investigator that it was reasonable for AXA 
to take the view that the blockage was the responsibility of the water authority and to contest 
this with them. I havent seen evidence of missed appointments by AXAs agents to Mr and 
Mrs Ps property as mentioned by their representatives. 
AXA required licenses for the access point within the property boundary and for access from 
the street. After the water authority said it wasnt responsible for repairs, it took AXA three 
months to apply for the street license. I think its clear that this should have happened much 
sooner. However, I agree with the investigator that overall the time was lost waiting for the 
removal of the third-party vegetation. It was unfortunate that AXA applied two excess charges to Mr and Mrs Ps claim. This was 
an error which has now been resolved, but I think it ought to have been dealt with more 
quickly by AXA. 
Considering all the events in the period, I agree with the investigator that the compensation 
of £250 from AXA is about right for the impact its poor service had upon Mr and Mrs P. I 
realise that Mr and Mrs Ps representatives disagree, but they havent provided any reasons 
for an increase other than the stress that Mr and Mrs P have suffered. I can see how 
stressful a long-running claim would be but unfortunately the representatives only refer to the 
whole four-year period of the claim  a period explained by the investigator, and here, that 
we cannot review. They have also referred to Mr and Mrs Ps loss of rent  which has yet to 
be brought as a complaint to AXA. 
Its not helpful to our investigation of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that their representatives 
have provided limited information relevant to their complaint. Our service must follow the 
rules set for us by the Financial Conduct Authority. These stipulate that we cannot consider 
a complaint that has not first been raised to a regulated business (Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
about their loss of rent claim). And we cannot consider a complaint that is brought out of 
time. 
Im pleased that AXA apologised to Mr and Mrs P for its poor service and paid them £250 
compensation. From my review of the circumstances of the complaint I think the 
compensation of £250 AXA has paid to Mr and Mrs P is about right for the stress they have 
suffered during the relevant period of their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman