DRN-3082182
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to raise a chargeback on his 
behalf.
  
What happened
Mr Z has an account with Santander. In 2019, he used his Santander debit card to pay a 
£1,000 deposit on a car. Around the same time, he used his credit card to pay for insurance 
and a warranty related to the car. Mr Z subsequently had problems with the car. He obtained 
a report from an independent assessor which identified issues which Mr Z hadnt been told 
about before he bought the car. He tried to resolve the situation with the dealership, but they 
werent willing to do anything.
After this, Mr Z contacted Santander and asked it to raise a chargeback to recover the 
deposit. He also told Santander about the items hed paid for on his credit card. Santander 
raised a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, but it didnt raise a 
chargeback. 
The Section 75 claim was unsuccessful. But by this time, it was too late for Mr Z to raise a 
chargeback in relation to the deposit. Mr Z is very unhappy about this and says his main aim 
was to recover the deposit. He complained to Santander, but it didnt uphold the complaint 
because it said it hadnt made any mistakes.
After the complaint had been referred to this service, Santander reviewed its position. It 
acknowledged that it had made a mistake. It said it had been aware of the payments on both 
the debit and credit card. It said it had been correct in excluding the debit card payment from 
the Section 75 claim, but that it should have set up a chargeback dispute or taken further 
action in relation to the debit card payment. It offered Mr Z compensation of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this mistake. But it said that, even if a chargeback 
had been raised, it was unlikely to have been successful.
Our Investigator thought that Santanders offer of £150 was fair and didnt ask it to do any 
more. But Mr Z didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Santander made mistakes here. It didnt fully consider or take 
appropriate action in relation to the deposit payment. Santander accepts this, so I wont go 
over all the background information here. Instead, Ill focus on the impact of this mistake and 
consider whether Santanders offer of £150 is fair.
As the deposit was paid on the debit card, it could never have been recovered under the 
Section 75 process. Mr Z says that he didnt know what a Section 75 claim was and wasnt 
aware of the distinction between that and a chargeback. He says he just went along with 
what Santander advised him to do. I think that was reasonable. 
Mr Z had told Santander from the outset that the deposit of £1,000 had been paid using his 
debit card. He had even requested a chargeback when he contacted Santander. Ive listened 
to the call recordings or Mr Zs discussions with Santander. It was clear that Mr Z was 
particularly keen to recover the deposit, not just the items paid for on the credit card. In the 
circumstances, I think Santander should have put more focus on the deposit payment. It 
should have made it clearer that the deposit couldnt be recovered through Section 75. And it 
should have discussed with Mr Z the alternative options in relation to the deposit. 
Because it didnt do this, Mr Z missed the chance to raise a chargeback. The time limit for 
raising a chargeback is set out in the card scheme rules and has to be followed strictly. By 
the time Mr Z became aware that the steps Santander had taken wouldnt enable him to 
recover the deposit, this time limit had expired. So Mr Zs options for recovering the deposit 
were limited.
However, Im mindful that Mr Z wouldnt necessarily have recovered the deposit through a 
chargeback claim, even if hed been able to raise one in time. Chargeback is a voluntary 
process which is run by the card scheme, not Santander. Customers arent automatically 
entitled to a chargeback and Santander doesnt have to attempt a chargeback just because 
a customer asks it to. But Id expect it to try if theres good reason to do so. Here, Id have 
expected Santander to ask Mr Z for the information it would need to make a claim, so that it 
could assess this and decide how to proceed. That didnt happen.
Chargebacks are decided on the basis of the card schemes rules, not the merits of the 
dispute between the customer and the merchant. So, even if Mr Z has good grounds for a 
claim against the dealership (which isnt what Im looking at here), it doesnt necessarily 
follow that a chargeback would have been successful. 
When considering a chargeback request, Santander isnt obliged to submit a claim if it 
doesnt think the case fits within the rules, or if it thinks the claim is unlikely to be successful. 
Santander now says that it doesnt think a claim would have been successful here. I wouldnt 
expect it to pursue a claim which had little prospect of success. But Santander should have 
considered this at the time, not in response to a complaint after the time limit had expired. 
On balance, I find it likely that Santander would have decided not to pursue a chargeback if it 
had given due consideration to the deposit at the time. It didnt have to raise a chargeback. 
But that would have been an active choice which would have been communicated to Mr Z. 
So he would have known that he wasnt going to get his money back that way. He could then 
have pursued other options while the payment was still relatively recent. 
Mr Z has described the negative impact this situation has had. Some of the stress he 
experienced could have been avoided if Santander hadnt made these mistakes. And Mr Z 
would have known where he stood much earlier. I think the stress was added to by the fact 
that Santander initially rejected the complaint, saying it hadnt done anything wrong. It was 
only when Mr Z came to this service that Santander accepted it had made mistakes. So I 
think Santander needs to pay some compensation to Mr Z.
  
Putting things right
Santander has already offered to pay £150. Taking everything into account, I think thats a 
fair amount. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr Z and Im sorry for that. I sympathise 
with his situation, but Im not looking at the merits of his dispute with the car dealership here. 
Im only looking at the way Santander dealt with his request for help in recovering his money. It made mistakes in the way it handled that request. But Im not going to ask it to refund the 
deposit because I dont think that would be a fair reflection of the impact of Santanders 
mistakes. For the reasons above, I dont think Mr Z would have recovered the deposit 
through chargeback even if Santander had acted differently at the time. I think the amount 
Santander has offered is fair, so Im not going to ask it to do any more.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt done so already, Santander UK 
Plc should pay compensation of £150 to Mr Z.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman