DRN-3179430
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the service that she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding her application for a credit account and Barclays subsequent 
requests to Mrs S to provide income verification documents,
What happened
Mrs S applied for a Barclays credit account with a credit limit of £3,500. Barclays approved 
the credit account, but only with an initial credit limit of £200. Barclays then asked Mrs S to 
provide verification of her income to enable them to assess whether they were willing to 
provide Mrs S with a higher amount of credit. 
Mrs S felt that Barclays should have been able to verify her income via information from her 
other Barclays accounts, and she wasnt comfortable providing the documents to Barclays in 
the manner that theyd requested. So, she didnt provide Barclays with the income 
verification documents, which led to Barclays deciding to close the credit account. Mrs S 
wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ss complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unreasonably by 
asking Mrs S to verify her income in the manner that they had, and so they didnt uphold   
the complaint.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly towards Mrs S by asking her to provide verification of her income, and so they also 
didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mrs S might have wanted Barclays to undertake an assessment of her 
financial position, including her income, from the information that was already available to 
Barclays, including the statements available on her Barclays current account.
However, its for Barclays to decide whether they will offer credit to a customer, and if so, 
how much and on what terms. Similarly, its also for Barclays to decide what forms of 
verification they require to in order to make an assessment on how much credit theyre 
prepared to offer.
Mrs S has confirmed that she feels that Barclays should have been able to confirm her 
income to their satisfaction from the information present on her Barclays current account. 
But in their response to Mrs Ss complaint, Barclays explained to Mrs S that they werent 
able to verify her income to their satisfaction from the current account information, and that 
they had asked Mrs S to provide income verification documents because of this.
This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Barclays have acted in a way unfairly 
towards Mrs S by asking her to provide these documents.
Mrs S is also unhappy with the service that she received from, including that Barclays didnt 
obtain information from her credit file to support her application for a higher amount of credit, 
or that a Barclays agent didnt return her call on at least two occasions.
However, it appears that Barclays did obtain information from the credit reference agencies 
as part of their assessment, and it must be noted that Barclays were attempting to 
specifically verify the income of Mrs S here  which is information that is unlikely to be 
verifiable from a credit file alone.
Regarding Barclays not returning Mrs Ss calls on two occasions, I can appreciate why Mrs 
S would be dissatisfied by this. But Barclays did correspond with Mrs S via other channels, 
including informing Mrs S by text message a few days later that they were investigating the 
issues that shed raised with them. As such, while I can understand why Mrs S feels that she 
was the recipient of poor customer service from Barclays here, I dont feel that Barclays not 
returning her calls and communicating with her in the manner that she would have preferred 
constitutes an unfair outcome to the degree that any form of compensation for this is merited 
in this instance.
Mrs S is also unhappy that Barclays asked her to provide her verification documents by 
going into branch at a time when the Covid-19 global pandemic was emerging and when  
Mrs S, as a elderly citizen, was being advised to shield from the virus and avoid social 
contact. However, I dont feel that it was the case that Barclays were asking Mrs S to go into 
branch, and I say this because its evident that Barclays suggested other channels for 
providing the requested documents, including via their online portal, such that Im satisfied 
that the option to provide the documents in branch was a generalised option made available 
to Mrs S rather than a requirement.
Mrs S has stated that the other options given to her by Barclays to present the requested 
documents were also unpalatable for her, including that she didnt want to email the 
documents to Barclays because of security concerns. But it doesnt appear that Barclays 
were asking Mrs S to email her documents to them in this instance, but rather that they were 
giving Mrs S the possibility to upload the documents directly to their secure online platform.
Ultimately, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have requested the income 
verification documents from Mrs S that they did here, and it seems apparent that Barclays 
were attempting to provide Mrs S with several options to provide these documents. 
And, while it was of course Mrs Ss right to choose not to provide the income verification 
documents that Barclays were requesting, Im satisfied that it was similarly Barclays right to 
choose to close the recently opened credit account when the income verification documents 
that they had reasonably requested werent provided to them by Mrs S.
Finally, Mrs S has expressed her dissatisfaction at several aspects of how Barclays have 
responded to her complaint. But it isnt within the remit of this service to assess complaints 
about how a business has responded to a complaint, and this is because this service can 
only assess complaints about regulated activities  which complaint handling is not. Further 
details of the types of complaint this service is and isnt entitled to consider can be found in 
the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook.All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs S wanted, but I hope that shell be able to 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman