DRN-4169355
The complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a claim on 
their motor insurance.
What happened
Mr C and Ms M had motor insurance underwritten by esure. Ms M was the policyholder and 
Mr C was a named driver. Their car was broken into and they made a claim on their motor 
insurance. The car couldnt be driven. Esure said it would arrange for a local garage to repair 
the car and provide a courtesy car. Despite Mr C repeatedly chasing both esure and the 
garage, nothing happened. Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained to esure. 
Approximately three months after Mr C and Ms M made the claim on the policy, esure 
responded to their complaint, saying:
I understand you are frustrated at the length of time it has take to complete your claim.
I have had a look into your policy and can see your complaint is at a stand still.
There is no clear reason why this would be so I will need to contact relevant departments to 
look into this further.
I hope to have a further update for you in the next few days and will contact you then.
You have the right to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, free of 
charge - but you must do so within six months of the date of this email.
I cant see that esure contacted Mr C and Ms M again about their complaint.
In the end Mr C decided to pay for the repairs himself. Unfortunately the first mechanic went 
off with his money. Mr C says that due to having to pay for the repairs himself and having to 
pay for alternative transport, he found it difficult to make the monthly payments for the 
insurance premium. Esure cancelled the policy for non-payment and pursued Mr C for the 
outstanding premium for the year.
Mr C and Ms M werent happy with esures response to their complaint, so they complained 
to this service. Our investigator upheld their complaint. She said esure hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate why the claim couldnt have been progressed when it was 
made. She said esure should consider the claim on a proportionate basis as Mr C and Ms M 
hadnt paid all their premium. It should also pay them £300 compensation for the poor 
service and reimburse them what it would have cost to repair the car plus 8% simple 
interest. 
Esure didnt fully agree so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr C and Ms M stated in 
their original complaint that they wanted £55,000 compensation, a letter of apology to Ms M 
and for esure to stop pursuing them for the outstanding premiums and write off what they 
owe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr C and Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Esure told our investigator that the last monthly direct debit payment on the policy was made 
about one month after the claim was made. Mr C and Ms M had paid a deposit and three out 
of the ten monthly instalments. The amount owing was the remainder of the annual 
premium. 
Esure also told our investigator that there was another non-recoverable claim about a month 
earlier where it had to concede liability to a third party insurer as Ms M didnt respond to its 
letters about this incident. The allegation was that she had reversed into a third party vehicle. 
However according to esures claim notes she did contact them, and indeed she must have 
done as the policy was going to be cancelled due to a lack of response, and then wasnt.  
Mr C and Ms Ms insurance policy with esure said:
Our right to cancel your policy 
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you seven days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. We will send our cancellation notice to the 
latest contact details we have for you and will set out the reason for cancellation. Valid 
reasons may include but are not limited to: 
 Where we have been unable to collect a payment (premium or credit installment) we will 
write to you requesting payment by a specific date. If we do not receive payment by this date 
we will write to you again notifying you that payment has not been received and giving you 
seven days notice of a final date for payment. We will also tell you that if payment is not 
received by this final date your policy will be cancelled. If payment is not received by that 
final date we will cancel your policy with immediate effect and notify you in writing that such 
cancellation has taken place. Your credit agreement may also be cancelled. We may also 
refer your details to a debt collection agency and your credit rating may be impacted;  

 If we cancel your policy, and you have made a claim or been involved in an incident you 
will still have to pay the full premium plus the fee esure charges. If you have not made a 
claim or been involved in an incident you will have to pay the premium for the period of cover 
you have used plus the fee esure charges...
So because of the third party claim, esure was entitled to ask Mr C and Ms M to pay the 
whole years premium even though the policy was cancelled. 
In response to our investigators suggestion to resolve the complaint, esure said it would be 
happy to progress the vehicle damage claim but would first require Mr C and Ms M to pay 
the remainder of the annual premium. Esure also said the £300 compensation award was 
too high. Esure said this service had overlooked the fact that its letters to the customer 
werent responded to. And it said Mr C and Ms M hadnt been forthcoming in contacting it to 
progress the claim and contact from them had been sparse. So esure felt £100 
compensation was more appropriate. I dont agree because as Ive set out above Mr C and 
Ms M had contacted esure and the garage to try to progress things.Esures failure to deal with the claim caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience to Mr 
C and Ms M. They were without their car for an extended period of time and werent 
provided with the hire car they were entitled to. They also had to spend time, effort and 
money pursuing their claim and getting their car repaired. Therefore I think that £300 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I note that Mr C and Ms M made their claim while the policy was still active and the 
payments fully up to date. I can see no reason why the claim couldnt have been dealt with 
and settled at the time. So I think esure should settle it now. However if part of the annual 
premium is still unpaid, I think that should be taken into account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr C and Ms Ms complaint. I require esure Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr C and Ms M £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
If Mr C and Ms M have now paid the outstanding premium, I require esure Insurance Limited 
to settle the claim in full in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy plus 
interest at 8% simple. If Mr C and Ms M still have some outstanding premium, I require esure 
Insurance Limited to settle the claim proportionate to the percentage of the premium that has 
been paid plus interest at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman