DRN-2764873
The complaint
Mr Y complains that advice he received in 2004 from Wesleyan Assurance Society about his 
future pension contributions was inappropriate. 
What happened
Mr Y has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr Y direct.
Mr Y had two sources of income  from his main employer and on a self-employed basis 
from some additional work he undertook. He was a member of an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) and says he had previously made free-standing additional voluntary 
contributions to a plan held with another provider. In July 2004 he asked Wesleyan for 
advice on some financial matters including ensuring that he maximised his pension benefits 
when he retired  at that time Mr Y had just over 17 years until his expected retirement date. 
Whilst the advice from Wesleyan covered a number of areas of Mr Ys finances, in this 
decision, I am only considering the advice he received in relation to his retirement savings.
Wesleyan met with Mr Y and gathered details about his financial situation. And it then 
provided him with a report setting our its recommendations. In the report it noted that it had 
considered the various options available to Mr Y, including making added years contributions 
or additional voluntary contributions to his OPS, taking out a personal pension, or using 
other savings vehicles. The report concluded that Mr Ys needs could best be met by making 
his future contributions to a personal pension plan.
Mr Y accepted Wesleyans recommendation and opened a personal pension that he 
continues to pay contributions into. Following advice from the CMC Mr Y complained to 
Wesleyan. He said that the advice he received failed to consider all the options that were 
available to him, and that he would have been better off purchasing added years benefits 
with the OPS instead. He says that the information Wesleyan provided to support its 
recommendation failed to make him sufficiently aware of the financial differences between 
the options, in particular relating to how any pensions might increase once they were in 
payment.
Mr Ys complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that the 
recommendation Wesleyan had made was inappropriate. She thought that the comparisons 
Mr Y had been given between the personal pension and the option of making added years 
contributions had been in line with industry practice at the time. And those comparisons 
suggested that Mr Y would be marginally better off by taking out a personal pension. So our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Y didnt agree with that assessment. So, since the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr Y and by Wesleyan. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The events that form the subject of this complaint took place 17 years ago. So it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr Y didnt have a complete recollection of everything that he was told at the 
time. I am not reaching a conclusion that is the case  but I need to be mindful that some 
memories of his meeting with Wesleyan might have blurred due to the passage of time. And 
for similar reasons Wesleyan might not be able to provide us with a comprehensive account 
of what was discussed at the time. So, where the evidence is unclear, or incomplete, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.  
I think it would be useful to set out my thinking about what it seems that Mr Y was looking to 
achieve when he engaged Wesleyan in 2004. The documentation from the time simply notes 
that he was looking to maximise his pension benefits when he retired. As I said earlier, Mr Y 
had two separate sources of income  income from his employer, and income from 
additional work he undertook on a self-employed basis. And naturally the options open to 
him to make pension savings based on that income were different. He could make additional 
contributions to the OPS based on his income from his employment, or make contributions 
to a personal pension based on his earnings from his self-employment.
But whilst those two methods of pension saving needed to be treated separately, I dont 
think it is entirely necessary to distinguish between them. In the round, Mr Y had a single pot 
of earnings that he could use to fund his expenditure. It would make little difference whether 
he funded his pension savings from his employed, or self-employed, income. Having made 
that decision he could simply cover any other expenditure from his remaining income. So 
I think it was right that Wesleyan looked at which income source it would be better for Mr Y 
to use when reviewing his future pension savings.
The documentation from the time suggests that Wesleyan considered two main options 
when looking at how Mr Y might made additional provisions for his retirement. It reviewed 
paying additional contributions to the OPS to purchase added years benefits, and it looked at 
making contributions to a personal pension. I think those were the two correct options for 
Wesleyan to review in connection to Mr Ys circumstances at that time.I have considered that Mr Y says he joined his employer a little later than might be the norm. 
So by the time he reached his normal retirement age he would fall four years short of the 
maximum length of service permitted by the OPS. That would mean that purchasing added 
years might have been a viable option for his retirement planning. But as Ive said earlier, 
retirement was some years away, and in my experience people in Mr Ys profession might 
not fully retire at age 60. So I think it might have been considered possible that Mr Y would 
have reduced any deficit in his years of service by the time of his actual retirement, and so 
made the added years option less attractive.
Mr Y has pointed out that the analysis Wesleyan performed was at a relatively high level. 
Specifically he says the comparisons it made between the likely pension income hed 
receive from either option failed to take account of any differences in how those pensions 
might be increased once they were in payment. He says the OPS pension would have 
benefitted from index linked increases, whereas the annuity quoted for the personal pension 
wouldnt. He says that wasnt made clear at the time.
At a high level I think the analysis Wesleyan provided to Mr Y did show that the personal 
pension would provide for a higher income in retirement. But that estimate was reliant on a 
number of assumptions about things such as investment performance, future annuity rates, 
and any future changes to pension legislation. But there were also unknowns in the OPS 
benefits which would be based on Mr Ys final salary with his employer many years later. 
I dont think it was unrealistic for Wesleyan to assume Mr Ys salary growth from his 
employment would be low, and so the majority of any growth in his income would have been 
from his self-employed work. 
Wesleyan has said that the comparison between the two options would have been 
discussed in detail with Mr Y before he made any decision. And the report from the time 
does indicate that a discussion about all the options had taken place. Clearly, without any 
recording of what was said, I cannot be sure whether, or to what extent, the future 
assumptions were discussed with Mr Y. But I dont think it is unreasonable to conclude that 
at least some discussion would have taken place given the clear comparison that was 
provided between the two options.
So whilst I accept to some degree the concerns that Mr Y has expressed over the 
differences in the escalation rates that might apply to the two pensions, I think that there 
were a range of other factors that might impact that comparison too. By its nature it couldnt 
provide any guarantees to Mr Y about what he would receive as pension income some 
17 years later  and that would include whether or not any annuity purchased from the 
savings in his personal pension plan would benefit from any annual increases. 
I think the basis for any recommendation between the two options was relatively marginal. 
But I dont think that the recommendation Wesleyan made was such that it could be 
considered unreasonable or inappropriate. I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, the 
option that was recommended might not have provided the best outcome for Mr Y. But many 
factors have combined over the following years to mean that reasonable assumptions made 
in 2004 have not been proven to be correct. It follows that I dont think that the advice 
Wesleyan provided in 2004 was unreasonable and so I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Wesleyan Assurance Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman