DRN-3990505
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXG Advice Ltd (trading as AXG Asset Management Ltd at the time)
advised him to invest his pension in funds that were unsuitable and not in line with his
attitude to risk. Mr H says this has resulted in him suffering a financial loss.
Mr H also complains that the firm didnt deliver the ongoing review service that they had
promised to provide.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 February 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. I have copied the relevant parts of it below and it forms part of 
this final decision. 
Copy of provisional decision
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint. She sent her assessment of it to both
parties in August 2022. The background and circumstances of the complaint and the
reasons why she thought it should be upheld were set out in that assessment. However to
recap, Mr H transferred the benefits from his former occupational pension scheme to a SIPP
in 2019. At the time he was advised it was recorded that his Risk Profile was 4 out of 10 
Lowest Medium.
Mr H was employed on a part time basis earning approximately £1,200 per month. His
expenses were around £400 per month. He owned his own home which was worth around
£200,000 (with a mortgage of £60,000). Mr H had £5,000 in his bank, and National Savings
of £2,000. He had another pension plan valued at approximately £40,000.
Mr H was advised to transfer his pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and
invest through AXG Asset Management Discretionary fund management (a DFM). He was
recommended to invest in the AXG Asset Management Balanced Portfolio. The suitability
report said this had a medium risk rating.
Mr H was charged a fee of £2,000 for the transfer analysis report and the firms
recommendation. This was payable whether Mr H acted on the recommendation or not. Mr
H was also charged £7,500 for arranging the transfer, and an ongoing management charge
of 1% (in addition to the SIPP fees).
The investigator explained that Mr H was happy with the advice to transfer and wasnt
complaining about that. So shed focussed on whether Mr Hs pension had been invested in
line with his attitude to risk, and if hed received the ongoing service that hed paid for.
The investigator noted the suitability report said that the AXG Asset Management Balanced
Portfolio that Mr H had been invested in had a medium risk rating. She said she had looked
at the risk profile report questionnaire completed by Mr H prior to the transfer. This gave his
attitude to risk as Risk Profile 4 of 10  Lowest medium.
However the investigator had considered the responses that Mr H had given in the risk
profile questionnaire. These included:
To achieve financial success, I would take financial risks  Disagree
I am the kind of person who takes financial risks - Strongly disagree
I prefer certainty about the future value of my investments, even if it means making less
money  Agree
Rises and falls in the value of my investments would not worry me  Disagree
If the value of my investment fell, even for a short time, it would concern me  Agree
I would generally avoid investments whose values rise and fall over time  Agree
I would frequently choose investments offering a steady return rather than those which could
rise a lot in value  Agree
The statement about risk-taking that best describes me is: I very rarely take risks.
The investigator said given Mr Hs responses to the questions asked, she thought he should
have been classified as a maximum of Risk Profile 3  Low. She said his responses showed
he wasnt a risk taker and didnt feel comfortable taking risks. She said his responses
werent those of someone who should be put in a medium risk fund.
The investigator said she thought the description in the suitability report given about Risk
Profile 3 of 10  Low much more accurately fitted with Mr Hs feelings and thoughts about
risk and the amount of risk he was prepared to take with his pension.
The investigator didnt think there was any evidence to suggest that Mr H needed a DFM
arrangement, over and above what he could have obtained by AXG giving him ongoing
advice on the underlying investments, for the extra costs he was incurring. She thought the
DFM arrangement added an unnecessary layer of complexity that Mr H didnt need. She
said Mr H wasnt a sophisticated or experienced investor, and didnt have the necessary
knowledge to understand the bespoke investment propositions a DFM arrangement would
give to him. The investigator said she didnt think that a wider range of funds or a bespoke
investment portfolio were necessary to meet Mr Hs objectives.
Overall, the investigator didnt think a DFM arrangement was suitable for Mr H or in his best
interests. And she didnt think it had been made clear to Mr H that he was paying for a DFM
arrangement that wasnt a necessity.
At the time of advice Mr H had an existing pension which was invested in a cautious fund.
The investigator said she thought this was in line with Mr Hs attitude to risk. Mr H had
subsequently transferred his pension with AXG to this pension in February 2022, as it was
more appropriate for his attitude to risk.
The investigator thought that if AXG had originally recommended that Mr H transfer his
pension into his existing pension, he would likely have done so. She said one of Mr Hs
objectives was consolidation of pension funds, but she couldnt see that this had been
considered as an option.
The investigator said the suitability report explained the £2,000 fee would be paid whether ornot Mr H went ahead with the transfer. So if the adviser had recommended transferring to his
existing pension, Mr H would still have had to pay the £2,000 fee. She was satisfied that was
fair for the work that was done.
However she said she thought the £7,500 AXG Asset Management DFM Initial fee for
arranging the transfer should be refunded to Mr H, as if he had been given correct advice to
transfer to his existing pension he wouldnt have had to pay this.
The investigator said she thought that AXG had provided the annual review service. She
acknowledged there had been some errors made, but overall she thought the 1% charge
was fair and reasonable.
Taking everything into account, the investigator thought the fund recommended was too high
risk for Mr H and the DFM was unnecessary. She thought that on transfer Mr H should have
been advised to invest in the cautious fund of his existing pension. She said this would have
met Mr Hs objectives, for less cost and within his attitude to risk.
AXG didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It said, in summary, that Mr H was
advised about the DFM, its benefits and its fees were shown in the report which was
provided to Mr H. Mr H had been receiving an ongoing service and had discussed the state
of the markets with the adviser. Following such a discussion Mr H had wanted to switch the
pension which had been carried out.
AXG didnt think the £7,500 fee for the advice and arranging the transfer should be refunded
given that Mr H had said he was happy with the transfer itself. It also said once the Attitude
to Risk (ATR) questionnaire and report had been completed Mr Hs ATR had been
discussed with him, and Mr H had agreed with it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator that Mr Hs complaint
should be upheld, and largely for the same reasons. However I think fair compensation
should be calculated slightly differently.
AXG Advice Ltd has said it had advised Mr H about the benefits and costs of a DFM. And
that it had discussed Mr Hs ATR with him and it had been agreed. However AXG were
bound by the rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And one of its primary responsibilities was outlined in COBS Rule 9.2,
which effectively was to provide suitable advice.
Like the investigator, I think the AXG Asset Management Balanced Portfolio presented a
higher degree of risk than Mr H should have been recommended to take. Mr Hs answers to
the risk questionnaire clearly showed he was only comfortable with a limited degree of risk.
However the adviser himself described the fund as medium risk. And that its objective was to
provide returns of between 5 and 7% after all charges. The fund factsheet said the target
return was 8%. In my opinion the asset content of the Balanced Portfolio exposed Mr H to a
greater degree of risk than he'd indicated he was willing to take. So for this reason and those
outlined by the investigator above, I dont think the portfolio was suitable in the particular 
circumstances.
Mr H hasnt complained about the transfer itself. My understanding is that the £2,000 fee
was payable for the recommendation/report. And the £7,500 fee was payable to arrange thetransfer. My aim, in assessing what would be fair compensation, is to put Mr H as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Given Mr H is happy with the transfer itself and so the firm would have arranged it, albeit, for
the reasons set out it should have been to a different provider/fund, I currently dont think the
£7,500 should be refunded back to Mr H. The two fees paid equate to around 2% of the
transfer value, which I think is comparable with fees charged by other firms doing this type of
work.
The loss calculation methodology I have outlined below will compare Mr Hs position with the
position he would have been in had he been invested in the cautious fund from the off. So I
think that puts him back into the right position. However if Mr H had to pay any additional
charges when he subsequently switched the pension in 2022, I think those charges should
be refunded. Mr H should provide us with information about this when responding to this
decision.
Accordingly, my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I went onto outline how 
I thought AXG Advice Ltd should calculate and pay fair compensation. 
I asked Mr H and AXG Advice Ltd to let me have any further evidence or arguments that 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr H said he noted I didnt think the set-up fee was unreasonable. However he said it was 
never made clear to him what options he had. Mr H said he was, however, happy to accept 
the decision to compensate him the value of his fund had it been moved to his other 
pensions cautious fund which would have been his preferred situation. 
AXG Advice Ltd said that as part of its defined benefits transfer process and before any 
transfer work was completed, it had a telephone conversation with Mr H to make sure that 
he was aware of and understood the risk on proceeding with the actual pension transfer. It 
also reconfirmed his attitude to risk with regards to investing the proceeds of the transfer  in 
particular because of his responses to the risk profiling questionnaire (as I outlined above). 
It said during the phone call Mr H was made aware of the risks involved and that there was  
no certainty at all when transferring away from a defined benefits scheme. It said it explained 
Mr H would have to be prepared to accept the risk and to have no certainty.
If said if it had come to light at the risk profiling stage that a Cautious fund/ portfolio was 
better suited to Mr H and the need of certainties, then the advice would have been not to 
transfer as staying in a defined benefit scheme would have been better suited for him. AXG 
Advice Ltd said it believed that it hadnt provided bad advice to Mr H. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
When making his complaint Mr H said he thought the fund was invested inappropriately as 
hed made it clear at outset that he wished to invest in low-risk investments. That is 
consistent with the contemporaneous evidence  the answers recorded in the risk profiling 
questionnaire that was completed.AXG itself recorded Mr Hs risk profile as 4 out of 10 and described that as lowest medium. 
In responding to Mr Hs complaint it said it considered the AXG Asset Management 
Balanced Portfolio wasnt high risk in nature and it believed it was  in line with
your risk rating.
So I think any telephone conversations explaining the risks of the investment would have 
been based on AXGs belief that the risks presented by the AXG Asset Management 
Balanced Portfolio were in line with his lowest medium risk rating. 
However even if I accept that was an accurate assessment  given the answers Mr H 
provided clearly showed he was only comfortable with a limited degree of risk, I think lowest 
medium would be at the very top of the acceptable level of risk - as I explained in my 
provisional decision, the adviser himself described the fund as medium risk. And that its 
objective was to provide returns of between 5 and 7% after all charges. The fund factsheet 
said the target return was 8% - more consistent with the regulators higher projection rate. In 
my opinion the asset content of the AXG Asset Management Balanced Portfolio exposed Mr 
H to a greater degree of risk than he'd indicated he was willing to take or had likely been 
explained to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I order that AXG Advice Ltd calculates and pays compensation to Mr H as I set out below.
Fair compensation
As Ive said above, in assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H
as close as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given
suitable advice.
I think Mr H would have invested differently. I think he would have transferred to his other
pension and invested in the cautious fund he was already invested into. So I think what I
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when
he invested.
What should AXG Advice Ltd do?
To compensate Mr H fairly AXG Advice Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
AXG Advice Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, AXG Advice Ltd should pay it into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. AXG Advice Ltds 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. AXG 
Advice Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
If AXG Advice Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a  
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr 
H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an 
overall reduction of 15%.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. Income tax may 
be payable on any interest paid. If AXG Advice Ltd consider that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how 
much its taken off. AXG should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect 
of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the plan should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if
AXG Advice Ltd total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the
fair value instead of deducting periodically.Investment Status Bench
markfrom
(start date)           to
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP switched the
cautious
fund
available
in Mr Hs
other
pensionDate of 
initial 
transferDate of 
subsequent 
switchThe same
benchmark on 
the
loss calculated as 
at
switch date to
decision date. 
Then
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
AXG being
notified of
Mr Hs
acceptance of
this decision
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because I think the fund used for the benchmark is 
aligned to Mr Hs attitude to investment risk. It provides capital growth with a limited risk to 
his capital.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman