DRN-1801076
 
The complaint
 Ms L complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to her. 
What happened 
Between July 2016 and September 2018 Lending Stream provided Ms L with 12 loans in 
total, originally due to be repaid over six months or so. Ms L took out loans that ranged 
between £60 and £500. 
When Ms L complained to Lending Stream it offered to partly uphold her complaint from (and 
including) loan 9 onwards. But Ms L didnt feel that offer went far enough and she brought 
her complaint to us. So Im concentrating in my decision on the loans that are still in dispute 
 loans 1 to 8.   
Heres a table setting out details of the first eight loans: 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest*
Repayment
1 19/07/2016 17/11/2016 6 £150.00 £69.60
2 17/09/2017 01/03/2018 6 £200.00 £91.20*
3 03/01/2018 01/03/2018 6 £200.00 £146.56*
4 30/01/2018 01/03/2018 6 £400.00 £285.44*
5 13/02/2018 01/03/2018 6 £100.00 £327.84*
6 21/02/2018 01/03/2018 6 £320.00 £420.00*
7 08/05/2018 05/03/2019 6 £500.00 £224.00
8 31/05/2018 05/03/2019 6 £400.00 £324.00*
*this shows (approximately) the combined monthly repayment where loans overlap
Ms L feels that Lending Stream didnt do proper checks and she says the loans werent 
affordable for her and led to a spiral of debt. Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ls complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1-4 shouldnt have been lent  but he felt that by loan 5 Lending Stream shouldve 
seen that Ms L was likely having money problems. And by loan 8 her overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested shed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
So our adjudicator said Lending Stream shouldnt have lent to her from loan 5 onwards and 
he set out what Lending Stream should do to put things right for Ms L. 
Lending Stream hasnt responded to our adjudicators view letter or to a reminder chasing up 
a response  nor has it asked us for any further time to look at this complaint again. 
So as the complaint hasnt yet been settled, it comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Ms L could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And, in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Ms Ls complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms L. It asked her to 
provide details of her income and to tell Lending Stream what she normally spent each 
month. And Lending Stream also carried out creditworthiness checks on Ms Ls credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information it appears Ms L told Lending 
Stream about her income and outgoings and what Lending Stream had recorded about her 
financial situation, it wasnt wrong for Lending Stream to give her loans 1-4. 
I think the gap in lending between loan 1 and loan 2 was long enough for Lending Stream 
reasonably to think that Ms L had put her finances in order as it looked like she hadnt been 
dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This meant that when her 
borrowing started again, and Ms L applied for loan 2 in September 2017, around 10 months 
after shed paid loan 1, she was effectively starting over. So I think it was fair for Lending 
Stream to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess her lending requests 
accordingly.
Looking at the first four loans, these all looked comfortably affordable for Ms L, based on 
what shed said to Lending Stream about her finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments where loans overlapped. And I think the checks it did were 
enough for Lending Stream to agree to lend. 
As Ms L hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these 
loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 5. At 
this point, I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Ms Ls 
borrowing history that she was likely having money problems. 
Even though loan 5 was the smallest single loan amount she had borrowed, when she asked 
for loan 5, Ms L already had three other outstanding short term loans with Lending Stream 
(loans 2, 3 and 4)  and now she was asking for further borrowing, taking her overall 
indebtedness to the most it had been. 
So although loan 5 mightve appeared affordable, I think that Lending Stream shouldve 
realised that Ms Ls borrowing record indicated she was struggling with debt. And despite 
what shed told Lending Stream about her finances, it showed that Ms L was having serious 
problems managing her money. So Lending Stream shouldve seen that the indications were 
that loan 5, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Ms L. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Ms L to see if 
there was a point at which Lending Stream reasonably shouldve seen that further lending 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. 
I think by loan 8 Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. I say this because:Ms L wasnt managing to repay her loans sustainably. Ive taken into account that 
there was a gap of just over 2 months between paying loan 6 and taking loan 7. But 
this wasnt long enough in my view for Lending Stream to think it looked likely that 
Ms L had got on top of her money problems  and this is borne out by the fact that 
loan 7 was the biggest loan shed taken to date. And loan 8 became her seventh loan 
in around 8 months  due to keep her indebted to Lending Stream for a further 
6 months 
 
Ms L had regularly taken out overlapping loans, borrowing more money before she 
had finished paying for earlier borrowing 
 
repaying loans earlier than the agreed term doesnt mean Ms L managed to do so 
sustainably. Borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that 
Ms Ls finances were unstable and she was finding it hard to manage her borrowing 
in a well planned way.  
 
Lending Stream didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Ms L 
before shed paid all her earlier loans. But Lending Stream shouldve seen that she 
wasnt making any real inroads into her debt. Loan 8 was for twice the amount shed 
borrowed when she took out loan 2 - and taking into account that loan 7 wasnt yet 
paid this was by far the biggest amount shed had outstanding so far. So Lending 
Stream could see her indebtedness was increasing 
 
when she asked for loan 8 Lending Stream ought to have known that Ms L probably 
wasnt any longer borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income but to meet an 
ongoing (and growing) need for extra cash. And it shouldve realised that Ms L wasnt 
using the loans for their intended purpose and had become reliant on this type of 
high cost lending.  
 
I think that Ms L lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from 
loan 8 onwards when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ls indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Ms Ls ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So overall, Im upholding the complaint from loan 5 onwards and Lending Stream should put 
things right.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms L towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5 - 12, not including anything it has already refunded.
 B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Ms L the amounts calculated in "A" plus "B". 
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Ms Ls credit file for loans 5, 6 and 7. The overall 
pattern of borrowing by loan 8 means any information recorded about loans 8 - 12 is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 8 - 12 should be removed from Ms Ls credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Ms Ls complaint. Gain Credit LLC (trading 
as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman