DRN-3221620
The complaint
Mr C complains that Progeny Wealth Limited (Progeny), his financial advisers, provided 
incorrect information during his annual review in January 2020. And then failed to act on his 
instructions at the end of February 2020. He says that this resulted in a delay to his switch 
from investments to cash in his Personal Pension (PP) plan. He feels that the delay caused 
a significant loss in the value of his PP. 
What happened
Mr C has a PP. He took advice on the investments within the PP from Progeny. 
I understand that Mr C has health issues which Progeny were aware of during the course of 
his complaint. 
Mr C had an annual review with his Progeny adviser in January 2020. His wife also attended 
the review. He said he discussed the potential impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the 
financial markets and the ability for him to switch his pension into cash if there was a 
subsequent financial crisis. 
Mr C said hed transferred all of his medium risk portfolio into cash during the 2008 financial 
crisis. He said that his adviser told him in January 2020 that he could move to cash: "at the 
flick of a switch". And that this advice gave him the comfort to remain in his low to medium 
risk managed portfolio and monitor the situation. 
Mr C spoke to his adviser by phone on 27 February 2020. He said he verbally requested that 
his entire portfolio be moved to cash. He said his adviser told him that Progenys advice was 
to: "ride out the storm" on the basis that equity markets generally recover. 
Mr C emailed Progeny after the call to ask them about their advice to clients. He said: I 
would be moving more into gilts and cash right now. Progeny replied the same day that they 
were waiting to hear from their asset managers before they could confirm their position. 
They said theyd let Mr C know as soon as they did. Mr C said he wouldve expected 
Progeny to be giving investors more information and the option to move to a more defensive 
position. He asked his adviser to move his investments into a highly defensive position as 
soon as possible. He said he wanted no: equity or Asian exposure. 
Mr C emailed Progeny again on 28 February 2020 to confirm his request. He said: That 
would be risk grade 3 down from a 4 as a minimum.  Progeny replied the same day, stating 
they would switch his portfolio from a Dynamic Growth 4 (DG4) to a Dynamic Growth 3 
(DG3) portfolio. They said they would send Mr C the DG3 portfolio summary sheet, noting 
that the portfolio had more fixed interest allocation.
Mr C said that although this move was to a lower risk portfolio, with a higher level of gilts, it 
wasnt explained to him clearly. He also felt it contradicted his written advice. 
Progeny emailed Mr C on 3 March 2020 to confirm the switch hed requested - from DG4 to 
DG3  had been actioned. 
Mr C called Progeny again on 17 March 2020. He said that this time he gave his adviser 
explicit instructions to move the portfolio into cash. He said if this wasnt possible, then 50% 
of the portfolio should be transferred to cash. Mr C said he was again advised not to switch 
to cash, but he persisted in his request.
Progeny said that Mr C initially asked to move 50% of his portfolio to cash. But that his 
adviser had contacted him on 18 March 2020 to explain that forms would have to be 
completed to do this. They said that Mr C had then requested 100% of his portfolio be 
moved to cash as forms werent needed for that. They said he was told this couldnt be done 
straight away.
Unhappy, Mr C raised a complaint to Progeny on 18 March 2020.
After a conversation with the head of risk at Progeny, the transfer into cash was agreed. It 
was processed on 19 March 2020.
Mr C emailed Progeny on 30 March 2020. He requested that his portfolio be transferred 
back from the cash fund into DG3 as soon as possible. This was arranged and carried out to 
his satisfaction. He also further explained his complaint. 
Progeny issued their final response on the complaint on 16 April 2020. Mr C said he didnt 
receive this at the time. They didnt uphold the complaint. They said their investment strategy 
was and remained taking a longer-term view of market volatility in order to avoid crystallising 
short-term losses. They acknowledged that Mr C had a different view. And that they had in 
the end agreed that he could switch all of his portfolio into cash on a non-advised basis. 
Progeny acknowledged that Mr C had been unhappy that his switch to cash hadnt taken 
place on 18 March 2020, when hed given the instruction to switch. They said that although 
they didnt consider a one-day delay to be unreasonable, theyd run a calculation to establish 
if hed suffered any loss. The calculation showed that no loss had been made.
On 6 May 2020, Mr C emailed his new Progeny adviser. He queried a switch on his account 
that he didnt understand. He said he was planning to return to his original risk profile of a 4 
that had been agreed at the annual review. He said hed recently switched into and then out 
of cash, but he didnt reference his complaint in this email.
On 7 May 2020, Mr Cs new adviser emailed him to explain a transaction that Mr C had 
queried. He also checked with Mr C that he still wanted to switch back to the DG4 portfolio, 
noting that Mr C had previously expressed his intent to only move back to this portfolio when 
FTSE had reached a sustained position above 6,000. He said this point hadnt been reached 
yet.
Mr C replied to his new adviser on 8 May 2020. He said hed like to proceed with the switch 
to the DG4 portfolio. 
Mr C had a call with his new adviser on 21 May 2020. The call note recorded that Mr C was 
happy with where he was now invested. The call note didnt record any discussion about Mr 
Cs complaint. His new adviser said that Mr C hadnt mentioned it to him.
Later on 21 May 2020, Mr C emailed Progeny. He said that while hed been happy with the 
way that adviser had been managing his portfolio since he took over: The residual matter of 
the failure/inability of [his previous adviser] to act on my initial instruction to convert to cash 
from CDG 4 remains the last matter outstanding. He asked Progeny to address this 
remaining issue.Progeny responded to Mr Cs email on 22 May 2020. They said theyd get back to him.
Mr C said that as hed not received a response from Progeny to his complaint, he instructed 
a third-party to follow up on his behalf. On 22 September 2020, the third-party wrote to 
Progeny. They said that Mr C had raised a complaint about the losses hed suffered. And in 
particular that the advice his adviser had given in February 2020 to transfer into a lower risk 
portfolio rather than cash was defective. 
Progeny re-issued the April 2020 final response letter to the third party on 13 October 2020. 
The third-party acknowledged safe receipt. And sent the final response on to Mr C.
Progeny emailed the third party on 13 October 2020. They said theyd already fulfilled their 
complaint handling obligations. 
Mr C said he wouldnt have employed the third party to act on his behalf if hed received the 
final response in April 2020. He said hed followed up his original complaint with an email on 
21 May. But that hed not heard anything back. He said he would close his account with 
Progeny. 
On 16 October 2020, Mr C emailed Progeny to tell them he required all of his funds to be 
switched into cash as soon as possible. Progeny replied the same day. They explained that 
Mr C would need to sign and return a request form theyd attached. They said that they 
would be in touch separately regarding the disengagement of Progeny as his advisers. I 
understand that Mr C did remove Progeny as his advisers.
Mr C also brought his complaint to this service on 16 October 2020. He said that it hadnt 
been pointed out to him that it wasnt possible to switch the portfolio into cash as hed 
requested. And that if his original adviser had been honest with him he wouldve taken the 
action hed taken in March (the switch to cash) at an earlier point. Mr C also said that the 
final response letter wasnt the only item of correspondence that he hadnt received from 
Progeny. He also said that when Progeny had moved him from DG4 to DG3 theyd gone 
against his request to move out of equity and Asia. He said that he acknowledged that 
Progeny should only trade based on what is suitable for the client. But that hed made it clear 
that he was taking the investment decisions against advice and without the usual suitability 
assessment. He said that the switch into cash in March 2020 had been agreed after a frank, 
robust and rigorous conversation with Progenys head of risk. And said that he couldve gone 
through the same process in in February 2020 if his adviser had told him the truth. 
Our investigator didnt consider that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She said she 
couldnt be certain exactly what had been discussed with his adviser in February 2020. But 
she was satisfied that the execution-only requests that Mr C had made had been actioned as 
hed requested. She felt that the request to transfer 100% of Mr Cs funds to cash had been 
made on 18 March 2020 and had been actioned a day later. So she didnt consider that 
Progeny had caused any unnecessary delays in moving his portfolio to cash.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Progeny didnt 
cause any unnecessary delays to the requested switch to cash. And Ive no evidence that 
Progeny gave Mr C incorrect information about it being possible to switch to cash at the flick of a switch. But even if they had, Im satisfied that it wouldnt have caused Mr C a loss. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Before I do that, Ill explain what this complaint covers and what it doesnt cover, as the two 
parties to this complaint have a different view on this issue.
What aspects of the complaint does this decision cover?
I understand that Progeny considers that this service has investigated issues thatve been 
raised after Mr Cs original complaint. They say his original complaint was about the March 
2020 delay, not what his adviser may or may not have said in January or February 2020. 
Progeny said that at no point during Mr Cs conversation with their head of risk did he 
mention any concerns about previous discussions that had been held. They said this was 
why theyd only investigated the events of 18 March 2020. But I dont agree. Mr Cs original 
complaint stated:
I wish to raise a complaint regarding the failure of the financial planning team to comply with 
my instruction to move my pension into cash even though I had previously been advised this 
was an option I could exercise in a financial crisis.
I consider that Mr C said that hed previously been advised that he could move to cash. 
Therefore Im satisfied that this service can consider the advice Mr C was given in January 
and February 2020 as Mr C did raise this in his original complaint to Progeny. 
However, Mr C has raised an additional complaint about fees that Im not satisfied I can 
consider alongside his original complaint. He told this service that hed been charged an 
additional months advisory fee by Progeny in November 2020, even though hed removed 
them as his advisers in October 2020. He raised this with Progeny on 5 December 2021 and 
chased them for a response on 30 December 2021. He also said that the ongoing fees hed 
been charged had been higher at certain points in time than hed agreed with Progeny. 
Progeny replied to Mr C with an explanation on 3 January 2021. They said theyd only been 
formally removed as his adviser on 18 November 2020. And explained why theyd charged 
the fees theyd charged.
Mr C told this service that he didnt agree that the fees had been advised or explained to 
him. And wanted to add this to his current complaint. Our investigator told him this wasnt 
possible. I understand that Progeny now feel that this issue has been resolved to Mr Cs 
satisfaction, but that Mr C still wanted this part of his complaint to be considered alongside 
his complaint. I confirm that I am unable to cover the new complaint as part of this decision. 
Ill first consider the final response letter, and whether it was sent to the correct email 
address.
Final response letter
Mr C said that he didnt receive the April 2020 final response letter. He said that this caused 
him to incur fees.
Progeny said they sent the final response letter by email on 16 April 2020. They said they 
had checked that the email address theyd used was the one they received messages from 
Mr C.
Ive reviewed the final response letter and the cover email it was sent under. This email is 
timed at 15:40 on 16 April 2020. Its addressed to the same email address that Mr C complained from on 30 March 2020. 
As Ive found evidence that Progeny used the correct email address for their final response, 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold them responsible for Mr C not receiving it.
I acknowledge that Progeny didnt further follow up on Mr Cs email of 21 May 2020, in which 
he noted that there was a residual matter. But, as Progeny had already issued their final 
response letter to the correct address, and provided referral rights to this service, they were 
entitled to provide no further response at this point.  
Ill now consider the complaint covered by this decision.
Progenys position is that they dont recommend that their clients try to time the markets. 
They said that Mr C had taken his own advice to dip in and out of the market at what he felt 
was the most appropriate times. And that theyd attempted to highlight the risks of this 
approach. They acknowledged that Mr Cs initial request to transfer into cash was delayed 
by one day, so that their head of risk could speak with him to ensure that he understood the 
out of market risks he would be taking if they executed his request on a non-advised basis. 
They said they undertook a loss calculation to find out if Mr C had been disadvantaged by 
the one-day delay, but this had established that hed actually made a gain as a result. They 
felt that the ongoing appropriateness of the previous investment strategy theyd 
recommended at reviews had been clearly evidenced by Mr C later instructing them to return 
to the same funds hed previously switched out of.
Progeny also said that they issued their final response to Mr C by email in April 2020. They 
said theyd checked the email address theyd used and confirmed that it was consistent with 
the address Mr C had used when communicating with them. And that Mr C hadnt raised any 
concerns when he met with his new adviser in May 2020, after his complaint. 
Progeny told this service that the January 2020 review had given no indication of any issue. 
They said it was followed up by a report which referenced the meeting, where the suitability 
of the existing arrangement remained consistent with the Mr Cs needs and objectives. They 
said this had gone unchallenged at that time. They said that in late February 2020, Mr C had 
told them he wanted to take a more defensive stance. And that theyd implemented his 
instruction to move from DG4 to DG3 after signposting the summary sheet providing the 
details of the investments in that fund. 
Mr Cs position is that he was explicitly advised by his Progeny adviser during his January 
2020 annual review that he could switch his investments by a same day instruction into 
cash. He said that if hed been told the truth at that time he wouldve moved to a different 
adviser firm where he felt instructions like this would be automatically undertaken. 
Mr C said his adviser hadnt said that a request to switch into cash was against Progenys 
policy, or that he would be advised against pursuing such an action. He said that Progeny 
have largely ignored this part of his complaint, which he considers to be the most important 
aspect of it. He also didnt feel that our investigator had fully addressed it. 
Mr C felt he had made the focus of his complaint clear. He noted the following:
During his discussion with Progenys head of risk on 19 March 2020 he said hed 
stated that his complaint that hed incurred a financial loss due to his original adviser 
giving him incorrect information was still outstanding.
He said his email to Progeny on 30 March 2020 had been clear that his complaint 
was specifically about the incorrect advice hed received in during his January 2020 review. 
He also said hed told Progeny in his email of 21 May 2020 that he was happy with 
the way theyd managed the subsequent switch to cash.
Mr C also said that Progeny have never responded to or apologised for the incorrect advice 
he considers they gave him.
Mr C acknowledged that there was uncertainty over what was said during the call on 27 
February 2020, as it wasnt recorded. He agreed that he had initially requested that 50% of 
his investment be switched into cash. And that his adviser had recommended against this. 
He said his health was at a low point during this time. And that if hed been in good health he 
wouldve dismissed this advice outright. He said that his request to move his investments 
into a highly defensive position, with no equity or Asian exposure hadnt been acted on. He 
felt that Progeny were responsible for the financial loss he suffered between 27 February 
2020 and 18 March 2020. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator that Progeny had acted fairly when theyd dissuaded 
him from making a short-term decision to switch to cash. He said that he was an 
experienced investor who had recently self-managed his pension and that he understood the 
out of market risks he would take if he switched to cash. He acknowledged that Progeny 
were required to only trade what was suitable for the client. But said that hed been clear 
when hed instructed the switch to cash that he was knowingly acting against Progenys 
advice after a frank and robust discussion with their head of risk. He said he wouldve done 
the same thing at the end of February 2020 if hed been told that it was against Progenys 
policy to allow their clients to switch to cash.
I first considered whether theres additional evidence, other than Mr Cs testimony.
Did Mr Cs adviser give him incorrect information during the January 2020 meeting?
Mr C said that during the 27 January 2020 review meeting, with his wife present, he and his 
adviser discussed the Covid-19 situation, and what impact it might have on his pension 
portfolio. He said at that point, Covid-19 was confined to China. He said Progeny told him 
that he could move his pension into cash at the flick of a switch to avoid significant losses.
Progeny said that after the review meeting, an internal file note and client report confirmed 
that Mr Cs objective remained unchanged at that time. They said his objective was to 
provide: growth to build up his pension pot for retirement. Progeny said there was nothing 
recorded on the file note or in the report which said that Mr C had raised any concerns about 
this stated objective. They said that the review also concluded that the current investment 
strategy remained suitable for Mr Cs objective. And also confirmed that short term volatility 
wouldnt have an adverse effect on Mr Cs standard of living as his income covered his 
expenditure. They also said that the fact find stated that Mr C was: happy to remain in 
Progeny Asset Management funds and risk.
Ive reviewed the paperwork from the January 2020 meeting. Theres no written record that 
Mr Cs adviser told him that he could move his pension into cash at the flick or a switch, or 
that Mr C had expressed a potential interest in doing this. 
Theres no way for me to know exactly what was said during the January 2020 review 
meeting. But Ive found no written evidence that Progeny told Mr C that switching to cash 
could be done on the same day. This doesnt mean I doubt Mr Cs recollections  and I 
understand that he said his wife could confirm them - but Ive no written evidence that these 
recollections are completely correct.However, Ive gone on to consider what mightve happened if there was conclusive evidence 
that Progeny did tell Mr C during the January 2020 review meeting that switching to cash 
was easy and could be done the same day. If this had been the case, I consider that it 
wouldve led to a loss of expectation about the service Progeny could provide. I say this 
because Mr C has said that he was told switching to cash could be done the same day as he 
instructed it. But when Mr C did instruct a switch to cash, it could only be done the day after 
the instruction.
Potential loss of expectation
As I said above, if  and Ive found no written evidence that they did  Progeny told Mr C that 
switches to cash could be done the same day, Mr C couldve reasonably expected an 
instruction to switch into cash to be carried out the same day. 
But in reality, Progeny were only able to carry out the instructed switch to cash after one day. 
And they required a conversation with Mr C before they could process his request. 
The evidence shows that Mr C instructed the switch to cash on 18 March 2020. But the 
switch wasnt processed until 19 March 2020. Therefore I conclude that if Progeny did give 
Mr C the incorrect information he said they gave him at the January 2020 review meeting, 
his loss of expectation would be one day. I say this because when Mr C said he found out 
that it wasnt Progenys policy to recommend switches to cash, his instruction to switch to 
cash was still carried out one day later. So it took one day longer than Mr C couldve 
expected against what he said his adviser told him in January 2020. Progeny have carried 
out a loss calculation which shows that the additional day  over and above Mr Cs 
expectations  didnt cause him a loss. 
I understand Mr C has health issues. Im very sorry about that. But I can see that he still had 
the same health issues in March 2020 that he had in February 2020. I understand that 
Progeny were aware of Mr Cs health issues.
Mr C said his adviser convinced him to move his investments to a lower risk portfolio rather 
than move them to cash at the end of February 2020. He said that if his adviser had been 
open and told him that it would essentially be a breach of Progeny policy to advise on a 
switch to cash then he wouldve taken the stance that he subsequently took in March 2020, 
and insisted on a switch to cash. But Mr C said that he was at one of his lowest points at this 
time. 
Progeny have confirmed to this service that there are no recordings of the calls between Mr 
C and his adviser, so Ive assessed the evidence I do have. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr C has said. I cant see that he told Progeny that his health 
was at a low point at the end of February 2020. And in March 2020 he was able to 
independently decide to ignore his advisers advice and instruct the move to cash. As Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr C informed Progeny that his poor health meant he wasnt in a 
position to go against their advice at the end of February 2020, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to decide that Progeny shouldve offered him different advice in February 
2020. Im not persuaded that just because Mr Cs adviser was following Progenys company 
line and advising against a switch to cash, given the out of market risk that Mr C would then 
be taking on, that this was poor advice. And Im not persuaded that if Mr C had known this 
was Progeny policy before this point in time it wouldve made any difference to the actions 
he took. 
Progeny have confirmed that their approach is not to attempt to time markets if the clients 
investment risk profile and tolerance has been properly assessed and remains suitable, which I consider has been evidenced in this case. Theyve also confirmed that they will 
implement a clients request to switch to cash if they are satisfied that the client is in a truly 
informed position. This explains why the head of risk needed to talk to Mr C before he could 
switch to cash. I consider that this wouldve been the advice most, if not all, financial 
advisers wouldve given their clients at the time. I dont consider that its poor advice to 
recommend against an attempt to time the markets, even where an investor has 
considerable experience and knowledge. So I dont consider that Progenys approach was 
unreasonable.
From what Ive seen, Mr C was still able to come to an independent decision to de-risk his 
investments in February 2020, despite his poor health. Therefore Im satisfied that Mr Cs 
health issues didnt prevent him from making his own investment decisions in February 
2020. I say this because Mr C emailed Progeny with his instruction to move to: risk grade 3 
down from a 4 as a minimum on 28 February 2020. Progeny replied the same day, stating 
they would switch his portfolio from a DG4 to a DG3 portfolio. They also provided a summary 
sheet with information about the DG3 portfolio. 
Mr C said that Progeny hadnt followed his instructions, as hed said in his 27 February 2020 
email to them that he wanted no: equity or Asian exposure. 
Im not persuaded that Progeny did anything wrong here. I say this because they emailed Mr 
C on 3 March 2020 to confirm that theyd carried out the exact switch they said they would 
carry out in their 28 February 2020 reply to Mr Cs written request of the same date. The 3 
March 2020 email said that if Mr C had any queries he should contact his adviser. But he 
didnt contact him. And when he asked to reinvest his cash in April 2020, he requested that it 
be invested in the DG3 portfolio, so he mustve been comfortable with this investment. 
Theres no evidence that Mr C complained after receiving the 3 March 2020 email that this 
wasnt the investment hed asked for. So Im satisfied that he was comfortable that Progeny 
had correctly followed his instructions.
Mr C has said he wouldve gone against Progenys advice in February 2020 if hed known 
that Progenys policy didnt support their clients moving to cash in January 2020. But from 
what Ive seen Im satisfied that  even if Progeny did in fact tell him this in January 2020  it 
didnt prevent him from taking the actions he took in March at an earlier point. It may have 
meant the switch took one day longer than hed expected, but Ive no evidence of any other 
potential impact on Mr C. Hes shown that he was capable of taking independent financial 
decisions. And Im persuaded that he couldve done so in February 2020, regardless of what 
hed been told about the ease of switching to cash in January 2020.
Progeny have shown that when Mr C did instruct them to switch his investments to cash, 
they carried out his instruction one day later than he said he expected it to take. They have 
evidenced that this didnt cause Mr C a financial loss. Theres no evidence that Progeny 
failed to follow Mr Cs written instructions. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman