DRN-3370729
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc didnt allow him a fair opportunity to an investigation 
by the card scheme when he raised a dispute about an item hed purchased.
What happened
Mr S purchased an item in March 2021 using his Santander credit card. He contacted the 
merchant the following month and said he was dissatisfied with the item, so wanted to return 
it. Mr S was ultimately unable to resolve the matter directly with the merchant, so he 
contacted Santander in early August 2021 to raise a chargeback. Santander asked Mr S to 
send in further information, as well as supporting evidence for his claim. Mr S sent back the 
required information, which Santander received on 23 August 2021.
Following this, Santander told Mr S that it had received the information more than 120 days 
since Mr S made the transaction. It explained this meant Mr S was outside the timescale in 
which disputes needed to be raised. So, it was unable to continue with Mr Ss chargeback.
Mr S was unhappy and complained to Santander. He said hed sent the relevant information 
back within the required timescales and shouldnt be held responsible if Santander hadnt 
received it in time. Santander reviewed matters and reiterated that the information was 
received outside the 120-day timescale. It also clarified that this was 120 days since Mr S 
requested a refund from the merchant. 
However, it thought the adviser Mr S spoke with in early August could have explained that 
the 120-day timescale was due to elapse soon, and could have set expectations that if the 
information wasnt received in time, then it wouldnt continue with the dispute. It also thought 
the adviser could have found another way of asking Mr S to send in the relevant information. 
Santander apologised for the service offered and compensated Mr S the disputed amount 
hed paid, which was £30.14.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters and, in summary, agreed that the service provided could have been better, 
but she thought Santander had fairly put matters right. Mr S disagreed with our investigators 
findings. In summary, he said his legal rights to a fair investigation were blocked by 
Santander. He also said the matter had caused him distress and inconvenience. And, the 
aim wasnt always to receive a refund but to have a robust investigation completed by the 
card scheme. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
If a customer receives goods that were faulty, or not as described, and has paid using either 
a debit or a credit card, they can ask their card issuer to dispute the payments made for the 
goods using that card. This process is referred to as a chargeback and is governed by the 
relevant card scheme. In this case, Santander has said the relevant scheme here is 
Mastercard. Its important to note that there is no right to a chargeback. And similarly, there 
is no obligation on a bank to attempt a chargeback if a customer asks it to. However, Id 
expect a bank to attempt a chargeback, as a matter of good industry practice, where 
chargeback rights exist, and the process has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. And the 
purpose of a chargeback is to obtain a refund, rather than to have the benefit of an 
investigation carried out by the card scheme.
The time limits for submitting a chargeback arent set by Santander, they are set by the 
relevant card scheme and must be strictly adhered to. Here, Santander has outlined that 
Mr S had to provide the relevant supporting documents with enough time left to allow 
Santander to move forward with the chargeback process within 120 days. The information 
Mr S sent in was received by Santander outside of the 120-day window. With this in mind, I 
dont think it was unreasonable that Santander told Mr S his chargeback claim now fell 
outside of the required timescales.
That being said, Santander has acknowledged that it could have provided better service. It 
thought that the adviser Mr S spoke with in early August 2021 could have made Mr S aware 
that the required timescales were due to elapse soon. And, if Mr S didnt provide the relevant 
information in time, it wouldnt be able to continue with the dispute.
Santander apologised for the service provided and paid Mr S a full refund of the item hed 
purchased, inclusive of shipping costs. Having thought about this carefully, I think this is a 
fair resolution in the circumstances.
Its unclear why the documents that Mr S sent in were scanned onto Santanders system 
several days after Mr S said he sent them in. However, Im not persuaded I need to 
investigate this further, as Santander has since put Mr S in the position he would have been 
in, had a chargeback been attempted and been successful. 
Ive considered Mr Ss concern that he wasnt given the opportunity of a full investigation by 
the card scheme, and that the matter has caused him distress and inconvenience. However, 
Ive already explained why I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it told Mr S his dispute 
fell outside the required timeframe. And, in any event and as mentioned above, Mr S was 
compensated the full amount that was in dispute, which likely would have been the most 
favourable outcome for him, had the full investigation taken place. 
Ive also considered that Santander offered to put matters right by paying Mr S the disputed 
amount quickly, and within a week of Mr S raising his complaint. It follows that I think 
Santander has handled matters fairly, and I dont require it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman