The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt pay service charges, due to be paid under 
the lease on his property, and add the costs to his mortgage debt when he asked it to.
What happened
Mr A bought a leasehold property in 2014 with the assistance of a mortgage from HSBC. 
Under the terms of his lease, Mr A was required to pay an annual service charge to the 
company that managed the property on behalf of the freeholder (the management 
company). Until 2019 Mr A seems to have paid the charges by making several payments 
during the year; the last of which appears to have been in each October. However, in 2019, 
whilst Mr A made some payments, the amounts were significantly lower than they had been 
in previous years and the account was nearly £2,000 in arrears in October 2019.
On 18 October 2019 solicitors on behalf of the management company wrote to both Mr A 
and HSBC about the arrears. It requested the arrears be paid by 1 November 2019 or legal 
proceedings would be started. 
HSBC wrote to Mr A informing him it had received correspondence about the service charge 
arrears and asked him to contact the management companys solicitors immediately to sort 
out the problem. It reminded Mr A of his obligation under the mortgage to pay any such 
charges. It also explained that if HSBC felt the lease was at risk, it could pay the charges 
and add that amount to the mortgage, at which point interest would be payable on them. It 
could then demand repayment or take action to possess the property. It also asked Mr A to 
contact it immediately if he was in dispute about the charges with the management 
company.
On 6 December 2019 Mr A called HSBC and asked it to pay the service charge arrears as 
he was unable to pay. It doesnt appear that any explanation for why he wasnt able to pay 
was given. HSBC confirmed that at this stage it was for him to contact the management 
company. It reiterated that message in writing a few days later. It also said Mr A could make 
an appointment to discuss further lending options if he wished to.
Mr A wasnt happy about HSBC refusing to pay the service charge arrears and made a 
complaint. 
HSBC responded to Mr As complaint and confirmed that it was not able to increase Mr As 
mortgage in the circumstances. Although if the freeholder commenced legal proceedings 
and HSBC thought its security was at risk, it might pay the debt on Mr As behalf and add it 
to the mortgage debt.
DRN-1436168Again Mr A was unhappy with the outcome of the complaint and asked this service to 
consider the matter. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He confirmed the position HSBC took, whereby it required court 
action confirming a mortgagor was responsible for the amount claimed and there was a risk 
of forfeiture of the lease, wasnt unfair. He also explained that there was no requirement for 
HSBC to provide additional lending to a customer. 
Mr A asked that the complaint be escalated to an ombudsman. He said he disagreed that 
HSBC hadnt treated him fairly when he was in need of assistance. Subsequently Mr A 
confirmed that HSBC paid the service charge arrears and added them to the mortgage debt. 
This was following court proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has confirmed that it will only pay service charges and add them to a mortgage debt if 
it considers its security is at risk, i.e. there is a real chance that the freeholder (or its 
representative) will forfeit the lease. If a lease is forfeited the property reverts to the 
ownership of the freeholder and Mr A and HSBC would no longer have a legal interest in the 
property. The mortgage debt would then become an unsecured debt, which would represent 
a much higher risk for HSBC.
In the initial stages of such a situation it would be inappropriate for a lender to just pay 
whatever was demanded. The leaseholder could be in dispute with the freeholder about the 
amounts owed and that dispute could be going through the courts or a tribunal. It is also 
usually more beneficial to a borrower to find a short-term solution to paying such arrears, 
rather than them being added to the mortgage and interest accruing over the remaining term 
of the mortgage. In Mr As case, there was 20 years left of the mortgage term.
Furthermore, increasing the debt against the property would increase the monthly payment. 
Where a consumer might be in financial difficulties most lenders would encourage a 
consumer to seek alternative options for debt management rather than do something that 
could make it more difficult to pay the mortgage, thereby risking repossession. If a borrower 
was in financial difficulties a lender would be required to try to help, but a consumer would 
need to confirm they were in difficulties first and ask for help. It isnt clear whether Mr A was 
in financial difficulties, but if he was, it doesnt appear he told HSBC that was the case or ask 
for its help. 
Most lenders will only consolidate service charge arrears to a mortgage debt after a 
consumer has firstly had the opportunity to find an alternative solution, the courts have 
confirmed the mortgagor owes the money claimed and the freeholder has given formal 
notification that it intends to start the forfeiture process. So HSBCs process is in line with 
industry norms and I cant say the process is unfair. 
In addition, I note that HSBC said that if Mr A wanted additional borrowing to cover the 
arrears, it would look into what it could do for him. Again, this is a reasonable proposal, but 
one which Mr A didnt take up. I would also reiterate the investigators comment in that there 
was no requirement for HSBC to offer Mr A further lending; that would have depended on his 
circumstances and HSBCs lending criteria.
Overall, whilst I can understand Mr As frustration that what he likely viewed as a simple 
solution to his situation was denied, I cant find that HSBC was wrong to act in the way it did. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
16 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman