DRN-4460626
The complaint
Miss J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her 
account whilst she was incarcerated and failed to take 
instructions from her mother when she visited a branch of 
Lloyds.
 
What happened
Miss J held a fee paying bank account with Lloyds. Miss J says 
was incarcerated and sent correspondence around the start of 
October 2021 informing Lloyds she was going to be 
incarcerated and that her account would be inactive until her 
release. Lloyds have no evidence of receiving this 
correspondence and have provided a copy of its internal 
records which shows the only contact from Miss J it had 
recorded was a visit to one of its branches on 21 September 
2021 when she updated her address.
The account became overdrawn when the account wasnt 
being credited to cover the monthly account fee.
Lloyds sent Miss J text messages and emails about this but 
they were returned as undelivered. Lloyds also wrote to Miss J 
at her last known address (the one she updated in her 
September branch visit) asking that she contact the bank or to 
credit the account with enough funds to bring the balance back 
to 0.00.
Miss J says she gave written authorisation for her mum to have 
access to her account. Miss J says her mum visited a branch of 
Lloyds and informed it that she had been incarcerated and to 
tried to sort out the account. Lloyds says it wouldve been 
unable to take a third party instruction without the express 
permission from their customer. And as it didnt receive any 
contact from Miss J and the account remained overdrawn it 
took the decision to close the account and gave two months 
notice as per the terms and conditions of the account on 1 
March 2022 and the account was closed on 11 May. 
Lloyds say it wrote off the fees and that Miss Js credit score 
hasnt been affected by its actions as it didnt report any missed 
payments.
Miss J complained to Lloyds about this. Lloyds didnt uphold 
her complaint. It says it closed the account as it was overdrawn 
and it had received no response or credit to the account since 
writing to Miss J about this and hadnt made an error. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Js concerns and 
reached the conclusion that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong 
in not following the instructions from her mother as she was a 
third party and wasnt named on the account. They didnt think 
Lloyds actions in closing the account were unreasonable and 
hadnt seen any evidence Lloyds had been notified of her 
incarceration. 
Miss J says the post wasnt forwarded to her mum as 
requested and that if shed known the account was in arrears 
she wouldve transferred funds and she did all she could to 
keep the account open. Miss J has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not to 
uphold Miss Js complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss J has experienced and 
see if Lloyds has done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss J back in the 
position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. 
And I may award compensation that I consider fair and 
reasonable.
Miss J is unhappy Lloyds closed her account when she says 
she informed it of her incarceration and provided her mother 
with authorisation to deal with her account but that Lloyds failed 
to accept this. Lloyds have provided a copy of its internal 
records that show the last and only contact it had from Miss J 
was in September 2021 when she updated her address in 
branch. 
So based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Lloyds ever 
received notification from Miss J that she was incarcerated or 
any instructions regarding her account. And Ive also seen no 
evidence that Miss Js mother was given authorisation to deal 
with her account and as such I cant say that Lloyds did 
anything wrong if it refused to follow the instructions of a third 
party.
But in any case even if Lloyds did have notice of Miss Js 
incarceration and the requisite third party authorisation to deal 
with her account, I dont think it wouldve made a difference. 
The reason Miss Js account was closed was because her 
account became overdrawn due to Lloyds charging the monthly 
account fee (as it was entitled to do) and Miss J failed to credit 
enough money to the account to cover this or respond to any of 
Lloyds communications about this.  
Lloyds was under no obligation to allow the debt to remain 
outstanding, so it gave two months notice to the last known 
address it had for her (the one she updated when she visited 
the branch a month before she was incarcerated) in-line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. To keep the account open all Miss J had to do was credit the account and anyone 
was able to do that - without third party authorisation.
So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here or treated Miss 
J unfairly and it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Miss 
Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 
25 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman