DRN-4353369
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has refused his application to 
upgrade his account.
What happened
In May 2003 Mr J attempted to open a reward account with NatWest. He was declined the 
reward account and given a foundation account instead. He was told he could appeal. He 
received a code saying his appeal was successful and was told that he could apply to 
upgrade the foundation account. He made the application to upgrade the foundation account 
to a reward account, and was told he had to call the bank. He made two attempts to get the 
account set up over the phone but the advisers told him that there was a marker on another 
account he had with NatWest concerning an overdraft debt which he was repaying. This 
prevented them from making the application. They suggested that he spoke to the 
recoveries department to get the marker removed.
He made a complaint to NatWest and it paid him £150 compensation for the problems he 
had had. He was told that he could make a further application but there was no guarantee 
that it would be successful. He tried again but was told that his account was not eligible for 
conversion to a reward account.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that NatWest had 
shown that he did not meet the eligibility criteria for the reward account. But she said that 
Mr J had received a poor service from NatWest, in particular giving him the impression that 
his application would be granted. She thought the £150 paid was an appropriate award of 
compensation.
Mr J did not agree. In particular he says he was told that his appeal had been successful and 
that he would be granted his reward account. He has a similar account with a bank in the 
same banking group and was assured that if he was eligible for that account, NatWest 
should provide him with the same account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do think that Mr J was given the impression that his application for a reward account would 
be successful. NatWest has been unable to supply the relevant chat transcript, but I have no 
reason to doubt Mr J was told that he could upgrade his foundation account to a reward 
account. And telling him his appeal was successful also implied that he should have been 
able to upgrade his foundation account to a reward account. I also note that in one of the 
phone calls the adviser did say that a code saying the appeal was overturned should lead to 
the account being upgraded. 
So Mr J was given a poor service by NatWest which caused him some inconvenience and 
distress. I note that NatWest has paid him £150 which I think was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I have to decide whether NatWest should provide him with the reward account which he 
applied for. Whilst its choice of wording was poor, and it would appear he was told during the 
chat that he could upgrade the account, he still had to go through the application, so it could 
still be unsuccessful. I'm satisfied from the information that NatWest has supplied that Mr J 
did not meet the eligibility criteria for the reward account. Whilst I can't share the full details 
of that, it was clear that when attempting to go through the application procedure, the adviser 
couldn't complete it because of the markers on his account concerning an overdraft debt 
which he was paying off. It would appear that attempting to get the recoveries department to 
remove the markers was unsuccessful.
So, as NatWest has told us that Mr J doesn't meet the eligibility criteria for a reward account, 
I can't ask it to override those criteria. I understand that Mr J does have a reward account, 
which he says he opened in October 2022, with a bank in the same banking group, but I 
can't speculate as to why that application was granted but his application to NatWest was 
declined.
My final decision
As National Westminster Bank Plc has paid appropriate compensation, I don't uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman