DRN-3559670
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his insurance claim unacceptably. 
Reference to UKI will include those businesses which acted on their behalf.
What happened
Mr H has a property owners insurance policy with UKI, and he made a claim for an escape 
of water in May 2021.
Mr H has made several complaints about this claim and has been awarded £900 
compensation in relation to it. This complaint relates to what Mr H describes as 
unacceptable finishing standards to paintwork in April 2022. He asked for an apology from 
the Chairman of the company along with a substantive compensation award.
UKI looked into Mr Hs complaint and apologised, they also paid him £250 compensation.
Mr H didnt think that was adequate, and he brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator here looked into the matter and said they thought UKIs response had been fair.
Mr H didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that this is Mr Hs fifth complaint about this claim, some of which I have 
decided previously. Its clear he has had a very frustrating experience throughout the period 
concerned, and he has been awarded a significant sum of compensation already. The delay 
involved in issues relating to this matter have already been addressed.
This particular complaint relates to the standard of paintwork.
UKI have accepted the paintwork was not of a satisfactory standard. They agreed to rectify 
that, and they paid Mr H £250 compensation. They also offered sincere apologies to him.
Therefore, I think it is simply for me to decide whether the compensation is suitable. I note 
Mr Hs request for an apology from the Chairman, but UKI have already apologised, and I 
wouldnt award a personal apology from the Chairman  not least because a forced apology 
can be seen as insincere.
Mr H has been put to some inconvenience in having to ask UKI to carry out further 
redecoration of his property. UKI have put forward a suitable remedy already, and theyve 
paid Mr H a generous amount of compensation. Sometimes in life things will go wrong, but 
UKI have already done enough to put things right in relation to this matter, so I wont be 
making any further award.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman