DRN-3897143
The complaint
Mr H complains that due to AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds poor service he didnt claim on 
his private health insurance when he wanted to see a doctor about his tonsilitis.
What happened
Mr H had a private health insurance policy which started on 3 December 2021. The insurer 
was AXA.
On 17 December 2021 Mr H told AXA its customer online portal showed he had different 
cover to what hed been told when he bought the policy. The online portal said he had five 
sessions for AXAs Doctor at hand (DAH) scheme (which is access to a GP online or by 
phone) and he needed to pay for the consultation then claim the costs from AXA. When he 
bought the policy hed been told he had unlimited access to DAH and the payment was 
within his premium.
AXA said it would find out the correct information. It emailed Mr H the same day saying he 
had unlimited DAH sessions, the payments were included in his premium and its IT team 
would sort out the wrong information on the online portal.
On 4 January 2022 Mr H told AXA the online portal still showed the wrong information for the 
DAH sessions and he was still unable to log into the DAH app. AXA sent Mr H a link for DAH 
and told Mr H to try to re-register and call it or DAH if he had further problems.
On 8 February 2022 Mr H emailed AXA that hed been very sick with tonsilitis about two 
weeks before and hed tried to see his local GP but didnt as there was a three week wait.
Mr H said he thought of making a claim on the policy but the customer online portal still said 
he was limited to five DAH sessions and he would have to pay then claim. He said because 
of the information on the portal he had to suffer with tonsilitis and not speak to a doctor about 
treatment.
On 16 March 2022 Mr H spoke to AXA as he hadnt had a response. On 17 March AXA sent 
its final response letter upholding Mr Hs complaint. It offered £100 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience due to the wrong information about his DAH cover being shown 
on the online portal and the delays in correcting the information on the portal and responding 
to his complaint. AXA also said if Mr H hadnt wanted to contact DAH about his tonsilitis he 
could have used the £500 private GP fees benefit on the policy. Mr H didnt get AXAs 
17 March email.
Mr H complained to us that hed not made a claim on the policy for his tonsilitis as he was 
concerned the portal said he would have to pay.
On 30 March 2022 AXA told Mr H he didnt get its final response letter due to its error and 
offered additional £50 compensation. Mr H didnt think AXAs compensation offer was 
enough. He said AXA should have told him he could use the private GP sooner, but as he 
only had a £500 limit for the private GP he would have wanted to save it for something 
serious. He confirmed he hadnt paid for any medical costs.
Our investigator recommended AXA should pay Mr H an additional £100 compensation (so 
£250 in total) for his distress and inconvenience. She said AXA didnt tell Mr H he had 
unlimited DAH sessions until 17 March 2022 and if hed known sooner he could have used 
DAH for his tonsilitis. She also said AXA should have told Mr H about the private GP cover 
sooner so he could have potentially made a private GP appointment for his tonsilitis. Also 
AXA should have resolved the DAH app problems sooner to enable Mr H to make an 
appointment.
Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation. AXA didnt accept, it said:
Mr H knew from his policy documents he had unlimited DAH appointments and 
separate £500 private GP cover. Before Mr H had tonsilitis it had told him he had 
unlimited DAH appointments, he didnt need to pay and claim and that his online 
portal was wrong on that point.
After its 4 January email to Mr H it hadnt been told there was a continuing problem 
with the DAH app, which was a separate entity to the online portal. If there had still 
been a problem Mr H could have called AXA or DAH to make an appointment.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant industry guidance says insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim.
AXA accepts there were problems with its service so the issue I have to decide is whether 
AXAs offer of £150 compensation for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience was fair and 
reasonable, and I think it was. Im intending to not uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the screenshot of the online portal information Mr H saw when he had tonsilitis. It 
said he had five DAH sessions and he would need to pay for the consultation and claim the 
cost back from AXA.
I dont agree with our investigator that AXA first told Mr H he had unlimited DAH sessions on 
17 March 2022. Ive listened to the 17 December 2021 call between Mr H and AXA. AXAs 
representative didnt know the position about the DAH sessions and said he would get the 
information for Mr H. AXAs email the same day to Mr H sets out that he does have unlimited 
DAH sessions and he didnt have to pay extra. So Im satisfied that AXA had told Mr H about 
his correct cover for DAH before he had tonsilitis.
Mr H told AXA Its all well and good people telling me Im covered but when its in black and 
white telling me Im not covered it puts me off because Im scared I will have to pay'. Im 
sympathetic to Mr Hs comment, but AXAs email of 17 December 2021 had told him the 
correct information about his DAH cover and that the online portal was wrong. I think AXA 
could reasonably understand that Mr H would act on the correct information it had given him 
about cover. Also, if Mr H was still uncertain about cover when he had tonsilitis he could 
have phoned AXA to get extra confirmation that he had unlimited DAH sessions and not 
have to pay and claim.
As to the private GP fees, the screenshot of the online portal Mr H saw said underneath the 
DAH information that he also had cover for private GP fees limited to £500. The same 
information was also in the policy documents sent to Mr H on 6 December 2021. So I think 
AXA had given Mr H clear information about his separate private GP cover before he had 
tonsilitis. And in the 17 December 2021 call with AXA, before Mr H had tonsilitis, he says hes aware of the separate private GP cover. So I dont think AXA was responsible for Mr H 
not using that cover for his tonsilitis. From Mr Hs comments he wanted to keep his private 
GP cover for something serious so it seems he didnt want to use the private GP cover for 
his tonsilitis.
Finally, I havent seen any comment from Mr H that he was unable to make a DAH 
appointment when he had tonsilitis because he had continuing problems with the DAH app 
after 4 January. If that was the case AXA could reasonably understand he would have 
phoned it or DAH to resolve the problem, as it had asked him to, so that shouldnt have 
stopped him from getting a DAH appointment.
In all the circumstances I dont think I can reasonably say AXA must pay £100 more in 
compensation that its already offered. I think its offer of £150 compensation offer for Mr Hs 
distress and inconvenience due to its service was fair and reasonable. If AXA hasnt already 
paid that amount to Mr H and he wants to accept he should contact AXA direct.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H didnt respond. AXA said it had no comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H didnt respond to my provisional decision and AXA had no comments Ive no reason 
to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
I think AXAs offer of £150 compensation for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience due to its 
service was fair and reasonable and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman