DRN-3487232
The complaint
Miss O says Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to return her payment in full after an international 
transfer failed.
What happened
Miss O sent £440.49 to an overseas account on 23 July 2021. £423.91 was returned by the 
beneficiary bank on 28 July 2021. Miss O is unhappy that she received less than she sent 
after the transfer failed, and also that it failed at all as she had made transfers to the same 
account without any problems previously. She wants Barclays to refund the difference.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said Barclays had shown it processed the 
transfer correctly, converting the amount into euros. But that the recipient bank had returned 
it with an error code. The amount credited back to Miss Os account was lower due to the 
exchange rate on the date it was put back into Miss Os account.
Miss O was unhappy with this assessment. She said she hadnt made a mistake as all the 
information is pre-saved. She asked for an ombudsmans review and so the case was 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent found Barclays acted in error so I cant fairly uphold Miss Os complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Barclays has shown that it processed Miss Os transfer in line with her instructions. And that 
it was returned from the beneficiary bank with the reason code RR04 Regulatory Reasons. 
It has explained this means the recipient account details were either missing or incorrect. It 
also told Barclays it could not find the account on its database. 
I understand this is frustrating for Miss O as she made regular transfer to this account using 
the same details, and I can see this is the case, but this was the error code applied by the 
recipient bank. If funds are returned in such circumstances Barclays needs to accept them to 
be able to return them to the sender. I know Miss O has already spoken to the recipient bank 
who said there were no issues at its end, but I can only look at the conduct of Barclays in 
this complaint.  
The difference in the value of the funds was due to the movement in exchange rates. But as 
I have not found any failings in Barclays actions I cannot fairly instruct it to pay the 
difference to Miss O. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman