DRN-4216940
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has refused to write off his debt and has not 
fairly considered that request.
What happened
Mr L says he asked Capital One to write off his credit card account debt. He says he has a 
number of health issues which mean he can no longer work. Mr L says he provided medical 
evidence to Capital One, but it unfairly refused his request to write off the account balance. 
Mr L also complains not only about that decision but how Capital One dealt with his request.
Capital One says its offered help to Mr L by providing information about debt organisations 
that could help him and by applying an interest free breathing space. It says it has 
considered the information Mr L has provided and says it will not write off the debt.
Mr L brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Capital One had fairly considered Mr Ls medical evidence and all the 
information but was entitled to reach its own decision about writing off the debt. The 
investigator also considered the lending affordable at the time and provided Mr L with her 
reasons for reaching that conclusion.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and says in summary Capital One hasnt considered his 
vulnerabilities and his inability to repay this debt. He says he couldnt afford a payment plan 
in any event. Mr L says its irrelevant what his circumstances were at the time of lending as 
the position has now changed. He would like this debt written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied the main part of Mr Ls complaint is that Capital One didnt fairly consider his 
request to have the debt written off. I am sure Mr L accepts that he entered into a contractual 
relationship with Capital One and would have agreed to repay the debt he owed. So, I am 
satisfied the debt is owed and that its Mr Ls responsibility to repay it.
Any lender should treat a borrower in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I 
can see that Capital One fairly directed Mr L to a number of debt specialists that could have 
assisted him and has fairly agreed an interest free breathing space period. I can also see 
that Capital One has requested information about Mr Ls income and expenditure. So, Im 
satisfied that Capital One has acted as I would expect in these circumstances by trying to 
offer support to Mr L and by acting in a positive and sympathetic way.
The key part of this complaint is the request by Mr L to write off the account balance. Im 
satisfied that its up to Capital One to make a such a commercial decision in these 
circumstances and I have not seen any evidence of reasons that would prevent Capital One 
pursuing this debt. We can consider directing a business write off a debt in certain limited 
circumstances, but I think this is a debt owed by Mr L that Capital One is entitled to ask that 
it be repaid. I cant see that there any such reasons here.
I accept that Capital One could have explained its reasons for refusing Mr Ls request in 
more detail but think that the outcome would have been the same in any event. I have 
looked carefully at Capital Ones records and am satisfied that it did fairly consider Mr Ls 
write off request as well as consider his medical evidence.
I appreciate that the investigator has considered the affordability of the account and that is 
not Mr Ls complaint. I make clear that I am satisfied Capital One did carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks on Mr Ls application. I can see it fairly considered Mr Ls income 
and expenditure at the time and that there was no recent adverse information on his credit 
file. So, I dont think the lending decision was irresponsible or unaffordable at the time of the 
account opening.
Overall, Im satisfied that Capital One did fairly consider Mr Ls request to write of his debt 
and was reasonably entitled to reject that application. Im satisfied that it told Mr L that and 
so think this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman