DRN-2252877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to UKI within this decision includes its agents/those acting on its behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is detailed, but it is well known by both parties, so I have 
only provided a summary of what happened below.
Mr and Mrs W have a travel insurance policy with UKI through their bank account. On 
10 February 2020, they flew to Portugal and were due to return on 28 March 2020. However, 
their return flight was cancelled because of the travel disruption caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Whilst in Portugal Mr W became unwell with chest pains. He underwent heart surgery for 
blocked arteries, and was discharged from hospital four days later. Mr and Mrs W told UKI 
what had happened  including providing details about their cancelled return flight. 
UKI said it would search for flights once Mr W was declared fit to fly. Mr W went on to 
experience further chest pains, but the hospital explained those pains were because of the 
medication hed been prescribed. And UKI decided Mr W was fit to fly on 29 April 2020. 
A number of indirect flights back to the UK were identified, and UKI went on to book Mr and 
Mrs W on to a London bound flight. That was scheduled for 22 May 2020, and included a 
two hour taxi ride from London to Mr and Mrs Ws home. 
Mr and Mrs W said they were concerned about travelling on multiple means of transport 
given Mr Ws condition, and the increased exposure to Covid-19. They explained theyd 
prefer to wait for a direct flight to the airport closest to their home, and on 15 May 2020 
provided further information to show that Mr W had been taken to hospital again (this time 
with an anal fissure which they said was caused by the stress UKI was putting them under). 
Mr and Mrs W received no further updates from UKI, so complained to their bank account 
provider who passed their concerns on to UKI.
UKI agreed that a direct flight was appropriate for Mr and Mrs W, and on 8 June 2020 said 
itd booked them on to a direct flight scheduled for 6 July 2020. Mr and Mrs W explained 
theyd already booked a return flight, because of the lack of previous contact from UKI, but 
UKI said coverage of the claim would cease if they didnt use the flight that had been 
arranged for them. 
Mr and Mrs W decided to wait for the flight theyd booked themselves to avoid any further 
difficulties with UKI. But that flight went on to be cancelled too, so Mr and Mrs W told UKI 
what had happened. They also explained Mrs Ws mother had been taken critically ill in the 
UK, and asked if UKI could arrange an emergency flight. 
UKI told Mr and Mrs W to purchase a new flight and claim their costs back. But the couple 
were able to return to the UK at the beginning of August 2020 on a charter scheduled by the 
airline that had cancelled the flight..
Mr and Mrs W complained about UKIs handling of matters and UKI agreed it hadnt handled 
some aspects of the claim as well as it should have. It offered £400 in compensation to 
recognise that. But Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and approached this service. 
Our investigator agreed that UKI hadnt always handled matters as well as it should have 
done. They thought it was right of UKI to compensate Mr and Mrs W, but they didnt think the 
£400 fully reflected the impact its actions had on them. So, our investigator recommended 
UKIs compensation was increased to £600.
Mr and Mrs W indicated that they accepted our investigators recommendation, but they also 
provided some additional comments about what had happened. 
UKI did not accept our investigators recommendation and did not think an increase in 
compensation was warranted. So, as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have set out their concerns in detail and I thank them for taking the time to do 
so. My findings will only focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint, which means I wont address every point or argument that has been raised. I trust 
this will not be taken as a matter of discourtesy.
Both parties agree that UKI didnt always provide the level of service it should have, and 
compensation is warranted. What remains in dispute is how much that compensation should 
be. Having reviewed everything made available to me, I too agree that an increased amount 
is warranted. Ill explain why.
The actions of UKI 
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines UKI has a duty to handle claims both 
promptly and fairly, and not reject them unreasonably. 
The request for consent
When logging the claim, UKI asked Mr W for consent to contact his GP. Mr and Mrs W dont 
think this was a reasonable request because Mr Ws blocked arteries had already been 
declared as a pre-existing condition, and because hed made a claim for blocked arteries 
before.  
After further discussion with Mr and Mrs W, UKI decided to forgo the consent issue and it 
accepted the claim without evidence from Mr Ws GP, but I dont think this means it was 
wrong for UKI to have asked for it at the outset. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to seek further medical evidence as part of validating a claim, 
especially if the reason for that claim is of a medical nature. I appreciate the concerns that 
Mr and Mrs W have here, but their claim in April 2020 was a new claim, and it needed to be 
assessed on its own merit. So, it would be unfair of me to conclude that UKI should not have asked for consent to contact the GP.
Proof of the flight refund
Mr and Mrs W were repeatedly asked by UKI to provide evidence of a flight refund (following 
the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ws original return flight home) during the claim. However, Mr 
and Mrs W had already provided evidence of this to UKI. So I accept the repeated requests 
would have been a cause of unnecessary upset, frustration and effort for them. I also accept 
that this impact was taking place at a time when Mr and Mrs W were both coming to terms 
with and focussing on Mr Ws surgery and ongoing recovery. 
The cause of the fissure
Mr and Mrs W have said the stress caused by UKIs handling of matters led to Mr W 
requiring further hospital attention for an anal fissure. While I agree that UKIs actions had an 
impact on Mr and Mrs W, the evidence in this complaint does not support Mr and Mrs Ws 
position. I say this because while I am aware Mr W was given medication to help his bowels 
and was discharged on the same day, apart from the couples testimony there is no medical 
evidence which comments on the causation of the fissure. 
Thats not to say that Mr and Mrs W werent stressed because of the claim. Based on the 
evidence in this complaint its evident that UKIs actions had a real impact on them. It is just 
that theres no evidence to support their position of UKI causing the fissure.  
The suitability of the flights offered
As part of UKI arranging their repatriation back to the UK, Mr and Mrs W were offered flights 
which they felt were unsuitable. Some of those flights involved more than one stop, and 
others were to airports which werent local to Mr and Mrs Ws home, but Mr and Mrs W said 
they werent suitable for them because of Mr Ws health and age, and because of the risk of 
exposure to Covid-19.
Both parties had difficulties in securing a flight back to the UK, and the travel disruption 
caused by the restrictions in place during the pandemic is well known. But UKI knew that 
Mr W had recently undergone heart surgery, and it was aware of the concerns that had been 
voiced to it about unnecessarily prolonged and indirect travel for Mr W. 
UKI went on to agree repatriation via a direct flight. But it continued to look at indirect flights. 
And given what it knew about Mr Ws health and the decision it had already made to return 
the couple on a direct flight, I think it could have done more to ensure it handled the 
suitability of the flights it was offering more appropriately. 
Its also clear that, at the time, there was some confusion as to what was meant by a direct 
flight and both sides were at crossed purposes when discussing this. UKI says that by direct, 
it meant a direct flight back to the UK. But Mr and Mrs W had assumed that direct meant a 
flight back to their local airport.   
I can appreciate why, in the context of the pandemic, UKI may have been focussing on just 
getting flights back to the UK. But it had agreed to repatriate Mr and Mrs W on a direct flight, 
and from the evidence it has provided I can see that it considered Mr W at risk of Covid-19 
because of his heart condition and his age. And that it felt an indirect flight would increase 
that risk further. 
So it does appear that limiting the exposure to the above risk was, arguably, important in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I can see why Mr and Mrs W would have been under the impression that UKI was seeking flights to get them back to their local airport  given 
theyd been told an indirect one wasnt suitable for them, in light of the increased risks of and 
exposure to Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs W are now aware that a non-stop flight back to the UK does constitute a direct 
flight. However, at the time, they were becoming increasingly upset at the way the 
repatriation process was being handled, and I do think UKI could have done more to 
communicate more clearly what it was trying to organise (i.e. a flight direct to the UK but not 
to Mr and Mrs Ws local airport). I also note that since approaching this service Mr and Mrs 
W have also become aware that UKI did not make them aware of another earlier flight) 
which appeared suitable for them and available to book. This has, understandably, further 
exacerbated Mr and Mrs Ws frustration and upset surrounding the suitability of flights they 
were offered. 
The curtailment cover
Mr and Mrs W remain unhappy that UKI did not find them an emergency flight once theyd 
advised it of Mrs Ws mothers ill health. They think this situation should have been covered 
under the curtailment provisions of their policy.
Before I set out my findings on this point, I am aware that Mrs Ws mother passed away 
before the couple were able to return to the UK. This was evidently very difficult and 
upsetting for Mr and Mrs W, and I send them both my deepest sympathies.
The curtailment cover in Mr and Mrs Ws policy is designed to assist in the event of a trip 
needing to be cut short. But here, Mr and Mrs W were not cutting their trip short. Their 
scheduled trip had ended on 28 March 2020. And the reason they hadnt yet been able to 
return to the UK was because of the ongoing travel disruption caused by the pandemic. It 
was not because their trip was still ongoing, and so I am unable to find that they should have 
been eligible for this aspect of cover.
The offer of £400
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a 
businesses mistake has had on someone, but it is not intended to be a punitive measure. 
UKI has already accepted it didnt always provide the level of service it should have done, 
and I have set out why I think its actions impacted Mr and Mrs W. For example, Mr and Mrs 
W had to make a concerted and unnecessary effort to re-explain their position to UKI. They 
had to reiterate the nature of Mr Ws health and age in relation to the most suitable means of 
repatriation. And they had to deal with repeated offers of unsuitable flight options. 
All of the above was at a time when Mr W was recovering from heart surgery. And I think the 
impact of UKIs actions were exacerbated because the couple was quite understandably 
concerned with that recovery and their safe return home. 
Mr and Mrs W were also dealing with the wider challenges of the travel disruption caused by 
the pandemic and the sad passing of Mrs Ws mother. UKI cannot be held liable for the 
existence of those challenges, but I do think it could have done more to ensure its attempts 
to repatriate Mr and Mrs W were handled more appropriately. So, although Im pleased UKI 
has offered compensation, Im not persuaded the £400 fully recognises the impact of its 
actions on Mr and Mrs W. And I too agree that an increase of £200 is warranted.
The actions of Mr and Mrs Ws bankMr and Mrs W do not think their bank did enough to ensure UKI handled their claim 
appropriately.
I understand why Mr and Mrs W approached their bank  their policy is after all a benefit of 
their bank account. But Mr and Mrs Ws bank is not responsible for the performance of the 
insurance policy itself, nor the actions of UKI. 
As the insurer, UKI is responsible for effecting Mr and Mrs Ws policy and dealing with any 
subsequent claims under it. However, this complaint is against UKI, and it would be 
inappropriate of me to make any findings about the actions of the bank here.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have set out above I find that an increase of £200 (taking the total amount 
of compensation to £600) is a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of UKIs actions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must put things right 
in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman