DRN-3731342
The complaint
Ms H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC told her she was no longer allowed into her local 
branch. She says this is unfair and she feels belittled and bullied.
What happened
Ms H says she was told in July 2021 that she could no longer visit her local branch. Lloyds 
said her behaviour towards staff at the branch was unacceptable. 
Ms H tried to use her local branch in April and May 2022 and was again told she wasnt 
allowed in. Ms H says the branch managers harassed, intimidated and defamed her, pointed 
a camera at her and threatened to call the police. Ms H made a complaint to the police about 
being harassed by the managers at the branch.
Our investigator said Lloyds had investigated Ms Hs concerns. It was entitled to make 
decisions about how to manage its business and take measures if it considers behaviour 
towards its staff is unacceptable. 
Ms H didnt agree. She made suggestions as to how Lloyds should manage its staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H and Lloyds have given different versions of what happened when Ms H visited her 
local branch. Lloyds says Ms Hs behaviour to its staff was unacceptable. Ms H disputes this 
and says shes innocent. Ms H says Lloyds staff behaved inappropriately and she had to 
contact the police. We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a court and 
we dont require Lloyds to prove its case, as Ms H suggests. We dont get involved in 
police matters. And its not our role to tell Lloyds how to manage its staff.
Lloyds told Ms H why it made the decision not to allow her to attend her local branch. Lloyds 
said it doesnt tolerate unacceptable behaviour towards its staff. Its for Lloyds to decide what 
steps it takes in these circumstances. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to say 
Ms H can no longer attend this branch.
Ms H has recently told us that Lloyds lost (or stole) some of her cheques. This wasnt part of 
the complaint she brought to us and so I cant look into it here. Ms H says shes raised this 
concern with Lloyds.
I appreciate how strongly Ms H feels about this matter, and that she will be disappointed with 
my decision. But I think Lloyds has dealt fairly with Ms Hs complaint. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Lloyds to take further steps. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman