DRN-4045344
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Elderbridge Limited (Elderbridge) has not treated them fairly in 
relation to their loan. They complain about the interest rate charged on the loan and that they 
have not been offered new interest rate products or a reduction to the interest rate they are 
paying and say that, as a result, they are mortgage prisoners.
What happened
In 2008, Mr and Mrs C took out a secured loan with their original lender - First Plus, via a 
broker, for around £118,000, which included insurance. The term of the loan was for 240 
months  or 20 years  with a variable rate of interest, which was 8.1% at the time. 
In 2016, Elderbridge took over the loan. Mr and Mrs C have raised concerns about the level 
of interest charged  and the fairness of this - for the duration of the loan. They have made 
complaints which have been responded to and I can see that they also used this service in 
2017 and received an answer on this.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs C instructed solicitors to take action and reached an 
agreement in court  which they signed in January 2020. 
Following this, Mr and Mrs C complained to Elderbridge again in April 2020 about how their 
interest rate had been calculated. Elderbridge replied to the complaint in a final response 
letter of April 2020 in which it said it had not made a mistake in how it calculated interest on 
the loan and so didnt uphold the complaint. This letter outlined that if Mr and Mrs C were 
unhappy with the outcome, they could refer the matter to this service within six months. Mr 
and Mrs C didnt contact this service until February 2021. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think this service should look into 
anything that had been decided under the court settlement, or Mr and Mrs Cs later 
complaint in April 2020 about the interest rates applied to the loan.
He went on to investigate the merits of the part of the complaint he thought we could 
consider - but ultimately didnt think this should be upheld. 
I issued a decision as to which parts of the complaint this service could consider. In 
summary, I said this service could consider Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that Elderbridge has 
not offered them any new interest rate products, effectively making them mortgage 
prisoners.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my previous decision, there is a limit as to the scope of this complaint that this 
service can consider. And whilst Ive noted that Mr and Mrs C have complained about the 
level of interest charged on their loan  this was settled in court previously.
But we can look at Mr and Mrs Cs point that they have been made mortgage prisoners by 
Elderbridge and have not been offered better interest rate deals  despite maintaining a 
good track record of payments. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs C received a letter in January 2021 which outlined changes to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules meaning it would be easier for consumers to move 
to a new mortgage with a new lender. 
This letter outlined that a consumer would be eligible to switch to a new mortgage lender if 
the following conditions were met:
(a) Youre not in arrears and have not missed any mortgage payments in the last 12 
months (mortgage payment holidays taken due to Covid-19 are excluded)
(b) You do not want to borrow any additional money (other than to cover any product 
or adviser fees which may apply when switching to a new mortgage lender).
Under the eligibility criteria it stated the following:
as you may be aware, were unable to offer you a new mortgage and were therefore 
required by the FCA to let you know these changes have taken place.
Quite understandably - following receipt of this letter - Mr and Mrs C queried why they hadnt 
been offered new interest rate products  especially as they had kept up to date with their 
payments. Elderbridge replied to say that, as a closed book lender, it was unable to offer 
new packages or better interest rates.
Whilst I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Cs frustrations that they havent been able to access 
better rates  or pay a lower interest rate - I dont consider Elderbridge has treated them 
unfairly in this regard. I say this as Elderbridge doesnt offer new rates to any customers and 
so its not treating Mr and Mrs C differently or unfairly in comparison to other customers 
here. 
Whilst Ive noted Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with this, there is no obligation on it to offer 
better rates. And its not the role of this service to force a lender to do so. 
Further, Elderbridge has said that it is willing to waive any exit fees that may stand in the 
way of Mr and Mrs C being able to re-mortgage with another provider and potentially obtain 
a better interest rate deal. And so, I dont consider that there are any barriers that 
Elderbridge is putting in the way for Mr and Mrs C to exit.  
I can understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but I dont think I 
can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman