DRN-3477719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2015, Mr and Mrs M were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs M decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In August 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs M to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding, in that it would pay for itself within the loan term;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments by the third year, and thereafter it would 
generate a surplus; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
The CMC also said that P failed to mention that the system would deteriorate over time.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs M or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had not provided Mr and Mrs M with Ps quote (on which the 
adjudicator had relied) until 14 days after the sales meeting;
Mr and Mrs M had never had the opportunity to read it during the meeting;
being satisfied with what they had been told in the sales meeting, Mr and Mrs M had 
not thought it necessary to ask for a copy of the quote afterwards.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs M could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs M and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies paying commission, and I have seen no evidence that it 
did, so I am satisfied that is did not.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs M, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr and Mrs M deny that they were 
shown the quote in the meeting, and say that the quote was not sent to them until 14 days 
later. But I dont think its likely or plausible that they simply took the salesmans word for it 
when they were told that they could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for 
with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, without at any point asking to 
see something to that effect in writing. And I have seen no evidence that the meeting 
occurred on a date 14 days before they signed the contract and the loan agreement. I think 
its more likely that Mr and Mrs M have simply forgotten the sequence of events over the six 
years between the sale and the bringing of their claim. So on the balance of probabilities, 
I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr and 
Mrs M agreed to enter into the contract, and that the salesperson went through it during the 
meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the rest of Mr and Mrs Ms version of 
events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs M have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ms recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs M could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £650.77. The quote then goes on to look at the electricity savings 
Mr and Mrs M could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are 
£424.38 and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs M, the 
combined income and savings in year one is shown as £1,348.50. This is shown in a table 
titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly revenue of £112.38. Im satisfied that the same document 
also set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £125.24, which is slightly 
more. But the quote also says that the income and savings are likely to increase each year, 
until they exceed the loan payments in year three. This is consistent with Mr and Mrs Ms 
account of what the salesman told them about the financial returns from the system.
This is shown most clearly in another section headed Repayments, which has three tables 
showing loan repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the 
table for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs M entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £125.24. 
For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£125.24, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the first two years of 
the loan, and a positive figure in the third and subsequent years, meaning that the system 
would begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments during the third year.
This corroborates what Mr and Mrs M have told us about what the salesman said they could 
expect to receive from the system, by way of FIT payments and savings, compared with their 
expected contractual monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding, and system deterioration
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs M that the system would be self-funding, in the 
sense of paying for itself within the loan term. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available 
evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. It will also be convenient in this 
part of my decision to consider their complaint that they were not told that the system would 
gradually deteriorate and become less efficient over the years.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs M were told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time. The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would 
take eight years for the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive to match 
the cash price of the system.
This is also stated in the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year eight the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs M could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £11,721. (To save space I have 
only shown the rows for years 1, 7 and 8 here.)
This same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£22,543, would be reached early in year 13: 
So I accept that the salesman said that the system would pay for not only its cash price, but 
also the loan, within the loan term.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 20 at 93.2%. The quote also says (on page 4) that the 25 year 
warranty covers the panels for up to 90% of their original output. So Im satisfied that the 
quote did take into account that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would 
have been factored into the table, and into the quote generally. Im also satisfied that the 
quote explained that adequately.
So, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs M that the system would pay 
for its cash price in eight years, and for the loan in a bit over 12 years, as supported by the 
table above, which was included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 67 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs M.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 4,741 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ms FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 4,470 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at 
the point of sale (94.3%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms 
of energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr and Mrs M have not seen the 
expected financial returns is not because the system is defective, or was not installed 
properly, but for some other cause.
I have therefore looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs M havent been receiving the financial returns they have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs M could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs M entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs M that the system 
would require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs M 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman