DRN-1901569
The complaint
Ms Ps complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) relates to the interest rate on her 
credit card and the level of reduction she feels Vanquis agreed to but did not then apply. She 
further complains that she asked Vanquis to provide her with a breakdown of her balances 
and the respective interest rates which had been applied, since these were not set out on 
her statements, and as Vanquis failed to do so, it has caused more interest to be applied to 
her account than would otherwise have been the case.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms P and Vanquis, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms P says she called Vanquis and during a discussion with one of their representatives it 
was agreed that Vanquis could offer her a 29.9% interest rate with a 10% reduction, which 
she took to mean that the overall interest rate would be 19.9%. Vanquis dispute this.
And after completing a balance transfer in May 2019 Ms P requested a spreadsheet setting 
out the respective interest rates for the different types of balance she had on her account but 
says this wasnt supplied. Vanquis say they spoke to Ms P on the 29 August and provided 
her with the information she required.
Ms P was unhappy with Vanquis final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that Vanquis hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly.
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Vanquis acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Vanquis has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.There are two substantive issues. First, the agreed rate of interest, and secondly the 
provision of the necessary information to allow Ms P to know what rates of interest were 
being applied to her account.
With regard to the first issue, the call recording reveals that Ms P was told that Vanquis 
could agree to reduce the rate by 10.1% from 39.9% to 29.8%. As our investigator has 
pointed out this reduction is shown on the monthly statements, albeit it is expressed not as 
the annual interest rate but the monthly simple interest rate. I am satisfied this was what was 
agreed, and this is what Ms P received. Based on this evidence I cannot see that Vanquis 
has acted unfairly and it would appear Ms P may have misunderstood what was actually 
said on the call.
As to the second issue, the statements themselves do provide a significant amount of 
information regarding the rates of interest to be applied, and how payments will be allocated 
if a customer does not pay off the full amount outstanding. The statement describes shows 
that payments will be allocated in a specific order which is then set out further down on the 
statement. The wording is this,
When your repayment is not sufficient to pay off the whole of the balance outstanding 
on your account, your repayment will be applied first to reduce that part of your 
balance bearing the highest interest rate and then on a descending interest rate.
The interest rates are then set out, but importantly the following also appears on the 
statement,
Interest Rates: The rate(s) of interest used to calculate the amount of interest charged 
on this statement and a clear explanation of the way in which the interest applied has 
been calculated will be provided on request.
 
Ms P rang Vanquis on the 29 August and spoke to an advisor who explained to her how 
payments she made were applied. They term this the payment hierarchy. I do appreciate Ms 
P says she asked for more detail of how her payments had been applied and the applicable 
rates but was not given it. However, I have seen no evidence within the contact notes to 
support that. The only evidence there is relates to the call on the 29 August and this shows 
that the advisor explained clearly how payments were applied. So, having requested an 
explanation, Vanquis provided it during the call on the 29 August, and I dont think it was 
necessary or reasonable for them to have provided any further detail.
Our investigator has set out the precise order in which payments are applied, so I wont 
repeat it, but it is worth emphasising that there are two parts to the process, first an 
allocation to items on the last statement balance, and then to transactions since the last 
statement. It may be this which has caused any confusion for Ms P, but having looked at the 
evidence Vanquis has supplied, and the terms and conditions which govern the account, I do 
see that Vanquis have acted properly in applying the interest to her account. So, whilst I 
recognise that Ms P feels that she has been hoodwinked and that the terminology needs to 
be made clearer, Im afraid I cant agree that more interest than would otherwise have been 
applied to her account has been done so.
Whilst I recognise that Ms P will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Vanquis has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman