DRN-2798186
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) and their 
decision to approve her loan application, which she feels was irresponsible.
What happened
On 6 August 2019, Mrs F applied for a high interest loan with MCF. This application was 
approved, and Mrs F was given a total loan of £2,500.00. which was to be paid off over a 
period of 24 months, with a monthly repayment of £180.35.
But Mrs F struggled to meet the monthly repayment from the offset. A number of payments 
were returned after MCF attempted to take them via direct debit. And Mrs F made cash 
payments for less than the monthly repayment after this, resulting in the account accruing 
arrears. As Mrs F was unable to clear the arrears, MCF sold the debt to a third-party debt 
collection company in February 2020. But Mrs F was unhappy with this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs F thought MCF had acted irresponsibly when approving her loan application. She 
thought her credit file shouldve made it clear she was struggling financially at the time she 
applied for the loan. So, she thought MCF shouldve completed additional checks, such as 
asking for her bank statements. And she thought if MCF had, they wouldve realised she was 
struggling financially as she was suffering with a gambling addiction at the time. She 
explained the worry caused by the load had impacted her mental health, so she wanted to 
be compensated for this. And she wanted MCF to refund her any interest and charges that 
had been applied to the loan as well as agreeing an affordable payment plan to clear the 
remaining debit. And she wanted any adverse information reported on her credit file to be 
removed.
MCF didnt agree. They thought theyd completed proportionate checks when approving Mrs 
Fs loan. They thought the loan appeared to be affordable, based on the income and 
expenditure Mrs F provided and the information that was present on her credit file at the time 
of the loan application. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Because of this, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs F remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought the checks MCF 
completed before approving the loan were proportionate to the loan amount they provided 
and the income Mrs F declared on her application. And although she recognised Mrs F had 
several credit accounts on her credit file, including some that had defaulted, she didnt think 
this information meant MCF should automatically have declined Mrs Fs application. She 
explained the majority of Mrs Fs credit had been settled in and around February 2019, 
before she applied for her loan with MCF. 
And she also recognised Mrs F had stated the loan was intended to consolidate her existing 
debt. So, she thought MCF were fair to decide Mrs F had a reasonable amount of disposable 
income, after her mortgage, unsecured credit and other expenses were taken into account. 
So, our investigator didnt think she could say MCF had acted unfairly or irresponsibly and 
because of this, she didnt think MCF needed to do anything more.
Mrs F didnt agree. She maintained her view that the information on her credit file shouldve 
made it reasonably clear to MCF that she was struggling financially. And she explained the 
income MCF used to calculate Mrs Fs affordability was incorrect and that shed never stated 
this was her monthly income. She believed the information had been transferred incorrectly 
from a website she used to search for available loans at the time. So, she didnt think MCF 
acted responsibly when the loan was approved. As Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mrs F. I dont doubt Mrs F 
has found herself in a difficult financial situation since she received the loan from MCF. Ive 
seen she struggled the afford the minimum monthly repayment since the opening of the 
loan. So, I can understand why Mrs F would look at MCFs decision to approve the loan and 
deem it irresponsible. And I can appreciate the worry Mrs F wouldve been caused when 
trying to meet the monthly repayments, and the impact this had on her mental health.
But for me to say MCF have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied of one of two 
things. Either, that the checks MCF completed werent proportionate to the loan amount they 
provided Mrs F in comparison the income she declared. Or, if the checks were proportionate, 
that MCF failed to assess the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the checks MCF completed, and whether they were proportionate to 
the loan Mrs F was provided. Ive seen the application Mrs F submitted, which stated her 
monthly income as £2,400. Im aware Mrs F has said shes never earned this amount and 
believes this was inputted incorrectly. And Im not disputing this may have been the case. 
But I dont think this was the fault of MCF. I would expect MCF to assume the information 
provided by Mrs F on the application was true, as she wouldve needed to tick to confirm this 
when applying for the loan. And Ive seen no evidence that I think would lead MCF to believe 
the income declared on the application was incorrect at the time they decided to approve the 
loan. So, I think they were fair to base the proportionality of their checks on this income.
And Ive seen MCF approved a loan of £2,500.00, which is relatively low compared to Mrs 
Fs income that was declared on her application. And Ive seen the monthly repayments 
were set at £180.35, over a period of 24 months, which was a relatively low monthly 
payment over a relatively short period of time.
Before approving the loan, I can see that MCF considered Mrs Fs income, her expenditure, 
her residential status, number of dependants, the information shown on her credit file and 
the reason for her wanting the loan. Considering the total loan amount against Mrs Fs 
declared monthly income, I think the checks MCF made were proportionate. So, I cant say 
they acted unfairly with the level of checks they completed.But as Ive explained, as well as the proportionality of the checks, Ive also thought about the 
information these checks provided and whether MCF assessed this information fairly.
Ive seen the affordability calculation MCF completed before approving the loan. This 
showed that Mrs F total monthly outgoings amounted to £1,477.47, which comprised of 
£693.00 for her mortgage, £263.00 to existing unsecured credit payments and £521.74 for 
other living expenses. So, when this was taken from Mrs Fs declared monthly income of 
£2,400.00, MCF calculated that Mrs F would be left with a disposable monthly amount of 
£922.26. So, when Mrs Fs monthly repayment for the loan was factored in, shed be left with 
£741.91 which I think was a more than reasonable amount and didnt suggest to MCF that 
the loan would be unaffordable. 
And this wouldve been the worst-case scenario, as Mrs F had already confirmed she 
intended to use the loan to consolidate her debt. So, I think it was reasonable for MCF to 
assume her monthly disposable income would increase once some of her outstanding debt 
was settled, as her minimum monthly payments would reduce. Because of this, I dont think 
there was any information in the affordability calculation that suggested to MCF the loan 
wouldnt be affordable or sustainable at the time they approved the loan.
But Im aware Mrs Fs main dispute relates to the information shown in her credit file. Mrs F 
believes the amount of credit shed taken up to the point she applied for the loan with MCF 
shouldve suggested she had long term financial difficulties.
Ive looked at Mrs Fs credit file at length to decide whether I think there was information 
showing that shouldve led MCF to either complete further checks or decline the loan 
application outright. And I dont think there was.
I dont dispute that Mrs F had taken out several forms of credit in the years leading up to her 
loan application. I can see there was a default and a delinquent pay day loan account 
applied to her credit file within the 12 months before her application. And I can see she was 
in a Debt Management Plan for several credit providers. But, crucially, the majority of these 
accounts had been settled in February/March 2019, which was almost six months before her 
loan application to MCF.
And Ive seen when Mrs F exceeded her credit limit on her open credit cards, she was able 
to make payments higher than the minimum payment to bring the outstanding balance below 
the balance threshold.
So, although I appreciate Mrs Fs view about the information shown on her credit file, I dont 
think this meant MCF shouldve automatically declined her application. I think the information 
on Mrs Fs credit file showed Mrs F had made attempts to improve her financial situation by 
settling several of her outstanding debts, and that she had the financial ability to do so. And 
as Mrs F was applying for a loan to consolidate her debts even further, I think MCF were fair 
to take the view that Mrs Fs financial situation had improved since the defaults. 
So, I dont it would be fair for me to say MCF assessed the information that had available to 
the time of the application unfairly. Im satisfied they reviewed Mrs Fs credit file and acted 
fairly by considering the improvement in her finances and her reduced outstanding debt in 
the previous 12 months. And when this was compared to the affordability calculations, which 
showed Mrs F had a generous amount of disposable income outstanding after the loans 
monthly payment was taken into consideration, I dont think I can say they acted 
irresponsibly by approving the loan without completing further checks. Because of this, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs F was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mrs F Ive 
thought about the impact this decision will have on her immediate financial situation, as the 
debt will remain outstanding. I recognise the information shown in her bank statements she 
provided may have altered MCFs decision to approve her loan so I can understand why she 
thinks they were irresponsible to do so in the first place. But my decision must be made 
based on the information that was available to MCF at the time they approved the loan, not 
the information Ive seen that was unavailable to them at the time. And as Ive explained, I 
dont think Ive seen any evidence to show they acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
situation. So, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118 118 Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman