DRN-2446408
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Aviva Insurance UK Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr H had an income protection policy with Aviva, supplied by his employer. Mr H is no longer 
employed with the same firm. There was a 52 week deferred period attached to this policy. 
In September 2018, he had a knee replacement operation and was unable to work during 
the recovery period  which was expected to be around six months. But complications 
developed with the surgery and Mr H was left unable to extend his knee normally and he 
began suffering with on-going pain. 
Mr H said the pain was such that he was unable to return to work and so he made a claim on 
his income protection policy at the end of the deferred period. His claim was declined 
because he was unable to demonstrate that he was medically unable to perform other 
occupations, that he was suited to by way of education or training, either full or part time. 
And so, he brought his complaint here. Mr H would like Aviva to accept liability and pay his 
claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said although Mr H was unable to return to 
his role because of his medically documented limitations, the policy required him to be 
unable to perform other occupations  and she thought there was no evidence to satisfy that 
part of the policy terms. She highlighted the medical opinions of the orthopaedic specialist 
involved with his care, and that of the insurers chief medical officer (CMO). Both were 
consistent that Mr H could return to sedentary work either part time or near full time. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings and so asked for a final decision. He made 
the following arguments which Ive summarised below;
The policy terms are unfair. He said with particular reference to the suited occupation 
part that this is hypothetical, unrealistic and not fit for purpose;
Hes unable to perform sedentary work because he suffers with chronic pain which 
prevents him sitting at a desk for extended periods; 
His symptoms severely affect his daily life, including walking, using stairs and other 
basic movements;
He was signed off by his GP during that time because he was too unwell to work. Mr 
H said this should be enough to satisfy the policy terms; and
The specialists report said that he was technically able to work a sedentary role  
and not that he was able to.
And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr H for all the obvious reasons. But put simply, hes not satisfied the policy terms because 
hes been unable to persuasively demonstrate that hes medically unfit to perform a 
sedentary occupation on a part time basis. So, I dont think Aviva made a mistake by 
declining his claim. Ill explain why.
The important thing to remember here is that Im not making a judgement on whether Mr H is 
unwell, or whether his symptoms prevented him from returning to his occupation. I think all 
sides agree that he suffered at the result of a knee replacement surgery that didnt go 
according to plan. Ive considered the key test here which is; whether Aviva declined Mr Hs 
claim fairly. This is its obligation under the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
and so Ive considered the policy terms and the medical evidence available to it.
I should say that although I understand Mr H doesnt agree with part of the policy terms, its 
not for me to challenge the term on that basis. My role is to consider whether the term has 
been applied fairly in the circumstances  which I believe it has. I should also say that the 
term is not an unusual one either and is quite standard across the insurance industry. To be 
clear the terms say about incapacity;
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her normal
occupation, and other occupations for which they are suited by reason of education, training 
or experience, as a result of their illness or injury.
  
Mr H meets that first part of the term as hes unable to perform the duties of his normal 
occupation. But hes not satisfied the second part, because hes been unable to persuasively 
show that his knee problems would prevent him fulfilling the duties of another occupation, on 
a part time basis, by which hes suited to through either experience or education. I know Mr 
H doesnt agree with the term, for all the reasons hes explained, but that doesnt mean 
Aviva treated him unfairly by relying on it. Avivas entitled to rely on its policy term because 
its relevant to Mr Hs circumstances and so I disagree that its declined his claim unfairly. 
Ive not seen any persuasive medical evidence that supports Mr Hs arguments that hes 
unable to work part time in another occupation. The orthopaedic specialists said;
(Mr H) would technically be able to perform sedentary work and your knee would still be 
painful and this would limit your ability to work.
Im satisfied that the specialists view was that Mr H could work in another suited occupation, 
but this would be on a part time basis due to limitations with his knee pain. I also noted that 
Mr H hadnt been prescribed with on-going pain medication. Avivas CMO also highlighted 
this and suggested it could help facilitate his reintroduction to the workplace, which I thought 
was a helpful suggestion.
Avivas CMOs comments are consistent with the orthopaedic specialist;
there is no reason why he cannot sit at a desk and walk with 110 degrees of knee flexion 
(about 70 degrees is needed to walk) and his degree of fixed flexion is about the ideal 
position if a knee has to be arthrodesis.  
And so, Im persuaded this means Mr H was able to work in a sedentary role and manage 
his symptoms, based on the medical professionals opinions.
Further, I note Mr H accepted he was able to consider alternative work and was actively 
applying for other jobs throughout the period he was away from work. Ive also seen 
evidence of Mr Hs previous experience and relevant training which Im satisfied qualifies him to perform other suited occupations. These occupations are sedentary and therefore are 
consistent with the opinions of the medical experts involved with his case. Its for these 
reasons I think Aviva has fairly declined this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman