DRN-2967773
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt refunded 
the premiums they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 3 December 2019, to cover a holiday from 6 June 2020 to 
22 June 2020.
 
Mr and Mrs P paid £799.80 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
travel insurance cover, which also covered Mr Ps declared medical conditions of high blood 
pressure and cholesterol levels. Mr and Mrs P also paid an additional premium of £13.99 for 
Gadget Cover, £21.48 for Excess Waiver and £120.86 for Cruise Plus Cover (inclusive of 
IPT. The premium Mr and Mrs P paid for their travel insurance policy, including the additional 
cover options, included a discount of £112.75. Mr and Mrs P paid a total of £843.38 for the 
policy including IPT.
On 7 May 2020, Mr and Mrs Ps cruise holiday was cancelled and they contacted their 
broker on the same day to cancel their travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said that because the policy was cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off 
period, no cash refund was available. It was willing to offer a pro-rata refund in the form of a 
voucher for the amount of £72.43. This was calculated from the date the policy was 
cancelled on 7 May 2020 which was also the date the holiday was cancelled. Great Lakes 
hasnt included the premium Mr and Mrs P paid for their Gadget Cover, Excess Waiver and 
Cruise Plus Cover within its calculations. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to Great Lakes 
and then brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld the complaint in part. She thought it 
was fair for Great Lakes to offer a pro-rata voucher, but it wasnt in line with what our service 
considered to be fair and reasonable. The investigator thought Great Lakes should provide 
Mr and Mrs P with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for the single trip insurance 
policy from the date the holiday was cancelled. She also thought Great Lakes should refund 
the pro-rata premiums Mr and Mrs P paid for their Cruise Plus Cover and for the Excess 
Waiver. 
With regards to the Gadget Cover, the investigator said as this cover was provided by a 
separate underwriter (Z), its agreed to offer a cash refund on this element of their policy 
which she thought fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes responded and recalculated the refund based on the investigators findings. It 
agreed to refund Mr and Mrs P £284.90 (including the additional premium for Cruise Cover 
Plus) in the form of a voucher and a separate cash amount of £13.99 from the other 
underwriter to be paid directly if Mr and Mrs P accept it.
The investigator said she was satisfied that Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs P a fair 
resolution particularly taking into account that there was no requirement for Great Lakes to 
offer any refund of the premiums. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigators findings 
and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Mr and Mrs P say they were looking for a cash refund as theyre unlikely to be travelling 
now. They also dont have any family who can make use of the voucher. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes is the provider of Mr and Mrs Ps single trip travel insurance policy and their 
optional Excess Waiver and Cruise Plus Cover. So, Great Lakes is the business responsible 
for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the refund of premiums on these elements of their policy. 
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs P held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs P had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled 
to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them 
cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These apply to both the basic policy and to any 
additional cover options purchased and say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue orreceipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Ps policy was purchased on 3 
December 2019 and cancelled on 7 May 2020. This was more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs P are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps contract because of the exceptional 
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ps contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 3 December 2019. 
Mr and Mrs P werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered Mr and Mrs P for cancellation cover from the policy start date on 3 December 2019. 
So, the premium Mr and Mrs P paid covered the risk of them having to cancel heir holiday 
due to any of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr P 
falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs P making a successful claim under the 
basic policy and the optional Excess Waiver Cover and Cruise Plus Cover from the policy 
start date until their holiday was cancelled on 7 May 2020. Great Lakes would have covered 
the risk of Mr and Mrs P making a successful claim under their Cruise plus cover from their 
intended departure date. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had 
commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for 
Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled on 7 May 2020 due to Covid-19, Great 
Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr and Mrs Ps single trip travel insurance policy. The 
holiday had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in 
relation to this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being 
cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, 
Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while 
Mr and Mrs P were travelling abroad.   
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs P 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from the date the holiday was cancelled on 7 May 2020. 
I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr and Mrs P paid for their 
Excess Waiver cover. Excess waiver cover means that no excess is payable in respect of 
any claim submitted under the general cover outlined in the policy. But Great Lakes were no 
longer covering the risk of a claim and therefore the use of the Excess Waiver cover from the 
date the holiday was cancelled.
I think Great Lakes should refund the premium Mr and Mrs P paid for their Cruise Plus Cover 
in full. Cruise Plus Cover provides a benefit in the event of missed port departure, cabin 
confinement, itinerary change, unused excursions and cruise interruption. 
So, this cover would only have provided a benefit in the event of a claim occurring while Mr 
and Mrs P were on their cruise. Mr and Mrs P didnt travel, so Great Lakes didnt ever cover 
the risk of a claim being made under this particular additional cover option. 
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for the 
additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be difficult to 
tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mr and Mrs P didnt travel on 
their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under the additional 
cover options attached to their single trip insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover 
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra cover 
at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr and Mrs Ps 
holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been calculated 
on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the policy. However, 
the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip insurance policy, so I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the additional cover options which Mr 
and Mrs P paid for any differently. 
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Ps 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ps reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs P entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. 
Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved 
to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs P. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable, 
so it can be used by either Mr and Mrs P or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy 
a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs P may not wish to use a voucher. They say theyre unlikely to 
travel again and have no family to transfer the voucher to. So they would like a cash refund 
instead. I appreciate their feelings around future travel and understand they may not want to 
travel again. The transfer of the voucher isnt so restricted and can be transferred to any 
third party. I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I 
think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for the basic policy or the additional cover options 
down into pre-travel cancellation and post-departure cover and Great Lakes hasnt 
demonstrated that theres a material unevenness in the incidence of risk across the life of its 
single trip travel insurance policies. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly or any differently to other 
customers in similar circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P were given a discount at the point of sale. Ive seen the updated refund 
calculation formula used by Great Lakes, and I agree this now leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate the 
refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) 
multiplied by days not on risk. 
Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs P £284.90 (including the additional premium for Cruise 
Cover Plus) in the form of a voucher. Taking everything into account, I think the value of the 
voucher, now it has been recalculated, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Gadget Cover
Finally, Mr and Mrs P also hold Gadget Cover which is provided by another underwriter  Z 
(which Ive referred to above).  This means Z is responsible for their complaint about the 
refund of premiums for the gadget cover. Z is prepared to offer them a full cash refund on 
this element of their policy which is £13.99. 
If Mr and Mrs P wish to accept this offer, then its open for them to do so and well tell the 
seller of their policy to send the payment directly to them. However, if Mr and Mrs P dont 
wish to accept this offer then well need to arrange for a new complaint to be set up for them against Z and consider that part of their complaint separately.
Putting things right
My recommendations
Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Ps voucher on the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from 
the date their holiday was cancelled on 7 May 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional Excess Waiver Cover from the 
date their holiday was cancelled on 7 May 2020;
A full refund of the premium paid for the Cruise Plus Cover.
As Im recommending Great Lakes refund Mr and Mrs P in full for Cruise Plus Cover they 
should receive a full refund of the IPT paid on that amount. The refund for the Excess 
Waiver should include the proportionate amount of IPT Mr and Mrs P paid on these 
premiums.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Great 
Lakes Insurance SE.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman