DRN-3818245
The complaint
Mr S complained because Tesco Personal Finance PLC refused to refund him for 
transactions which he said were fraudulent.
What happened
In 2020, Mr S worked in a financial role for a company. The company had dealings with a 
merchant which Ill call A. On 24 July and 31 July 2020, Mr S wanted to pay a company 
invoice from A, but the companys corporate card wasnt accepted. Mr S paid using his 
personal Tesco card instead.
Theres a disagreement about what happened next: 
- Mr S said that the merchant A wrote down his Tesco card details, and used it for 
future payments without Mr Ss authority. He said there were around 25 payments 
from 5 August to 3 September which he hadnt authorised, with a total of £7,365.72.
- The merchant A subsequently told Tesco that it hadnt been able to provide credit to 
the company Mr S worked for, but that company had wanted to continue doing 
business with A.   So A had said that every time a workman collected goods from A, 
the goods had to be paid for by card. Mr S would ring the office while the workman 
was present, and A would take payment over the phone. And A reported that on one 
occasion Mr S had used his personal card, but then said his personal card wasnt 
meant to be used. A said that Mr S had authorised it by providing his card details, but 
despite this, A had refunded him to his Tesco card.
Mr Ss Tesco statement shows multiple payments to A, for varying amounts, in August and 
September 2020. The statement shows one refund, which was on 3 September for £369.80. 
There had been a payment for that amount on 28 August.
Mr S contacted Tesco about the disputed transactions for £7,365.72 in autumn 2020. He 
cleared his balance, including the disputed transactions, in September 2020, and in January 
2021 he complained. He said that hed made a significant number of calls to Tesco, and 
although everyone had been helpful there had been no outcome. Hed eventually been put 
through to Tescos fraud team after a long wait, where the conversation had been unhelpful. 
Mr S said that the call handler was offhand and told him the disputed transactions were 
considered legitimate, but didnt go into any detail. Hed also expected a formal response but 
hadnt had one.
Mr Ss complaint email set out that after the card for the company he worked for hadnt been 
accepted, hed genuinely used his Tesco personal card just twice, in July 2020, but 
merchant A had written down the card and used it without his authority. He provided a copy 
of an email from A dated 1 September 2020. This clarified that the  £369.80 invoice had 
been paid by Mr Ss Tesco card, but the VAT had been paid by another card, as VAT had 
not initially been applied. The email offered to send detailed receipts for the invoices and 
said: I can confirm I have destroyed all details for your card since our conversation. Please 
accept my apologies for this error. Mr S said that this substantiated his claim that A had 
written down and retained his card details and subsequently used them without his authority. 
He also said that the company hed worked for had paid the invoices again, on the basis that 
Mr S would be refunded  - but that hadnt happened. 
Companies House information shows that the company Mr S worked for appointed an 
administrator on 26 January 2021. The company was dissolved on 2 December 2022.
Mr S chased Tesco throughout 2021. In June 2021, Tesco contacted merchant A, with the 
phone call Ive referred to above. In November, it turned down Mr Ss claim that the 
transactions had been fraudulent, and on 31 January 2022, Tesco sent its final response 
letter to Mr Ss complaint. 
Tescos final response letter recognised that Mr S had made many calls for updates, having 
first contacted Tesco in September 2020. It apologised that Mr Ss complaint had been sent 
to its Chargebacks team, when it should have been sent to the Fraud Investigation team. It 
also apologised because its employee who had, in November 2021, notified Mr S about the 
decision not to uphold his claim, hadnt offered to raise a complaint for him. The letter said 
Mr S hadnt received the help and service it expected customers to be given, and sent him a 
cheque for £150 as compensation for the upset caused.
Tesco also said that as part of the review, it had found that Mr Ss account had been used 
for business use, and section 14 of the account terms and conditions said that the account 
must not be used for business purposes. So Tesco had decided to close Mr Ss account with 
immediate effect.
Mr S wasnt satisfied, and in July 2022 he asked this service to look into his complaint about 
Tesco. He said that A had admitted to him that it had copied the card details, but only over 
the phone. He also said that he, his employer and A, had agreed that Mr S would be 
refunded for all the disputed transactions, as soon as his employer had paid A.  But Mr S 
hadnt received the refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He noted that Mr S was unhappy that Tesco 
hadnt carried out a chargeback, but said that he didnt think a chargeback would have 
succeeded. That was because A had said it had agreed Mr S could pay with his personal 
card by phone, when an order was collected. And there was no evidence that the goods or 
services Mr S had paid for, hadnt taken place.
The investigator also said that he didnt think the disputed transactions had been fraudulent, 
because the payments seemed to be for legitimate services provided by A. He also noted 
that Mr S had said that A had been paid twice  by him, and then again by his employer. The 
investigator hadnt seen anything to show that A had been paid twice, but said if that had 
happened, Mr S might be able to pursue legal action, as Mr S had said there had been an 
agreement reached between him, his employer, and A.
Mr S didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that when he and the 
investigator had spoken, hed hoped the full circumstances had been understood, but 
subsequent discussions had strayed from the key facts. He said that no-one had asked him 
for further clarification, and he had some very specific queries. He asked for more time to 
reply. The investigator gave Mr S a month from his original disagreement with the 
investigators view. He also asked Mr S whether hed applied to A direct for a refund of the 
disputed payments, and if so, what A had replied. 
But Mr S didnt provide any extra information within that time, so the case was passed to me 
for an ombudsmans decision on the information already available to me. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in August and September 2020 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
So I need to decide whether I think its more likely than not that Mr S authorised the 
payments on his Tesco card.
Mr S says the he authorised two early payments, but not the later disputed transactions, and 
in these circumstances it might not be fair to hold him liable for the payments in dispute here, 
even if he did give A authority to make certain other payments. But my role is to be impartial 
and decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. Where 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, then I have to look at whats more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence to me.
So Ive looked at what Tesco has said about why its holding Mr S liable. 
Who authorised the disputed payments?
As Ive set out above, theres a direct conflict of evidence between Mr S, and merchant A. I 
cant tell for certain what happened, because I wasnt present. Mr S said that the merchant A 
wrote down his Tesco card details, and used it for future payments without Mr Ss authority. 
But Ive also listened to the phone call between Tesco and A, and I think the arrangement 
explained there sounds plausible. Mr Ss employer was shortly to go into administration, so I 
think its quite feasible that A wasnt able to offer that firm any credit, but wanted payment for 
goods supplied straightaway, before the goods were taken away from merchant As site. So I 
consider it would have been likely, and quite understandable that Mr S would have paid 
using his own card, then claim it back from his employer.
I also note that these payments went on for some weeks before Mr S raised it with Tesco. Mr 
Ss job title indicates that he was in a senior financial role with his employer. So I think it 
would be surprising if Mr S didnt check his Tesco account online between the first disputed 
transaction on 5 August, and early September. Given that Mr S had financial expertise, Id 
have expected him to have raised the disputed transactions sooner than he did.
Im also not persuaded that the wording I can confirm I have destroyed all details for your 
card since our conversation. Please accept my apologies for this error necessarily means 
that A was admitting to having used Mr Ss card for 25 transactions which he hadnt 
authorised. In the recorded conversation between Tesco and A, A said the dispute was 
about the one transaction for £369.80.
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr S did authorise the disputed 
transactions to A on his personal Tesco card. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations, Tesco would be liable for the disputed 
transactions if Mr S hadnt authorised them  for example if a third party had stolen Mr Ss 
card and used it fraudulently. As Mr S had authorised payments to A, and his card hadnt 
been stolen, and As version of events is convincing, I think A processed the payments 
legitimately with Mr Ss authorisation. This means that Tesco doesnt have to refund Mr S, so 
the main point of his complaint against Tesco fails.Other aspects of the complaint 
There were phone calls with Tesco in autumn 2020, but Mr S raised a complaint in January 
2021. By that time, the company he worked for was about to appoint an administrator. Its 
likely that Mr S would have known this, because of the role he undertook for the company. 
So I consider it may be possible that Mr S had realised that he wasnt going to be able to 
recoup the money which the company owed him, which hed paid to A using his personal 
Tesco credit card. I sympathise with Mr S if this is indeed what happened, as it would have 
felt very unfair to lose money personally when hed paid it out for genuine reasons on his 
employers behalf. But in this scenario, the route for him to recoup the money hed spent out 
on behalf of his employer, wouldnt be a complaint against Tesco. 
Ive also looked at whether a chargeback might have succeeded, if Tesco had raised one for 
Mr S. First, banks dont have to raise a chargeback if they think it has little chance of 
success.  Chargebacks are decided on the card schemes rules, not on the relative merits of 
the dispute between cardholder and merchant. How they work is that the card issuer (Tesco) 
would check the problem against the list of possible chargeback reasons. Here, Ive seen 
nothing to indicate, for example, that As goods and services were faulty, or werent 
provided. So I cant say that its likely that a chargeback would have succeeded, and I dont 
think Tesco was wrong not to raise on with A on Mr Ss behalf. 
Mr S also said that hed paid A again with the company credit card, so A had been paid A 
twice for the same invoices. Mr S hasnt provided this service, or Tesco, with any evidence 
of double payment, so I cant consider that. But as the company which employed Mr S was 
in administration from January 2021 to its dissolution in December 2022, I think its likely that 
Mr S will have had the opportunity to request any appropriate refunds from the company 
liquidators, if A had genuinely been paid twice for the same invoices. After issuing his view, 
our investigator did ask Mr S if hed contacted A for a refund, and if so, whether A had 
explained why it hadnt done so, but Mr S didnt reply to this. 
So I find that the best route for Mr S to have raised any claim for refunds of money hed 
spent on behalf of the company, from his personal account, would have been through the 
relevant insolvency processes of the company hed worked for.
Customer service
Tesco didnt provide Mr S with good service when he got in touch about this problem. He 
had to make many phone calls to Tesco, and consistently didnt get an answer. Tesco has 
recognised this, and told us that it was initially wrongly passed to its disputes team rather 
than to its fraud team. This resulted in the delay from January 2021 when Mr S formally 
complained, to the end of March 2021 when the fraud team contacted him. So I consider that 
it would be fair for Tesco to pay Mr S some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
which Mr S suffered as a result of the delay. Tesco has paid Mr S £150, and I consider this 
was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Belinda KnightOmbudsman