DRN-1146931
 
The complaint
Mr B says that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Sunny approved an open ended credit account for Mr B and he made 24 drawdowns on the 
account which ran from January 2014 until October 2015. 
Mr B mainly said that Sunny didnt take reasonable steps to ensure he could afford to pay 
this money back. He accepts he was partly responsible for putting himself in a vulnerable 
and desperate situation but feels that Sunny took advantage of this and failed to assess 
whether he had become stuck in a spiral of debt. Mr B told us that his money problems 
caused him stress and worry.
When he complained to Sunny, it said it had checked whether the amounts Mr B requested 
were affordable and didn't uphold his complaint. So Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny shouldnt have continued 
to lend to Mr B from the 2 July 2014 (drawdown 10 onwards). She felt that at this stage Mr B 
was getting further away from clearing his balance and so it was irresponsible for Sunny to 
continue to lend to him from this point.
Our adjudicator recommended that Sunny put things right for Mr B by refunding all interest 
and charges incurred on the account from 2 July 2014 and said Sunny should also make 
amendments to Mr Bs credit file.
Sunny first of all disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that by drawdown 10 Mr B had 
been borrowing from Sunny for approximately six months and that was far too early in the 
borrowing relationship to uphold his complaint. Sunny also said it didn't agree that a 
customer taking out drawdowns in a short period of time is a good enough reason to uphold 
the complaint. It said the drawdowns had been affordable and sustainable for Mr B given his 
declared income of £1650 and the fact that no repayments were more than 11.08% of his 
declared income. Sunny also said Mr B didn't at any point tell Sunny that he was having 
money problems. 
But after further reviewing the complaint Sunny contacted us to say it had reconsidered its 
position. Sunny now believed it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint from 
drawdown 19 and offer a refund and amend Mr Bs credit file accordingly.
Mr B didnt feel this offer went far enough to settle his complaint and he asked for a review. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include: 
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on 
this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it 
doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr Bs credit file. I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mr B the open ended credit 
facility on the basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. And in the 
first six months or so, up until drawdown 10 on 2 July 2014, I think the checks were enough 
for Sunny to agree to lend as this was still early in the lending relationship.
As far as I can see, Mr B hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said about this so I dont 
think I need to say more about the first nine drawdowns. 
But as Mr B kept on using the account, I think Sunny shouldve seen the signs that 
borrowing was increasing unsustainably. Although the amounts being borrowed each time 
were variable, overall the balance had increased over time. And by the time he took out his 
tenth drawdown, which was the most hed ever owed on the account, Mr B had been 
borrowing on the account for around six months  so this suggests that he wasnt using the 
money to help with a short term cash flow problem. Rather, it looked like he had an ongoing 
need for extra money. So Sunny shouldve realised that Mr B probably wasnt using this 
borrowing for its intended purpose and this high cost short term credit account wasnt 
suitable for Mr B. 
I agree with the adjudicator that by the time he made his tenth drawdown on 2 July 2014 
Sunny should have seen that Mr B was showing signs of dependency on this credit and 
further borrowing wasnt sustainable. 
And this seems to be borne out by the fact that just two days after making two drawdowns 
on 2 July 2014, Mr B made another drawdown which further increased the amount he owed 
overall. And this pattern continued in the months that followed with his outstanding balance 
gradually getting more and more over time.  
So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about all the lending that Sunny provided to him from 2 
July 2014. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
 refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid from 2 July 2014
 add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement*
 remove negative information about credit provided after 2 July 2014 from Mr Bs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Susan WebbOmbudsman