DRN-4163993
The complaint
Mr A has complained about how Society of Lloyds (SOL) dealt with a claim under a mobile 
phone policy.
References to SOL include other companies involved in the claim and complaints process.
What happened
Mr A made a claim for his mobile phone when it was damaged. SOL accepted the claim and 
offered a settlement. Mr A complained because he was unhappy about how the claim was 
handled and the settlement offer. 
When SOL replied to the complaint, it confirmed the settlement it had offered. It also 
accepted that a call could have been handled in a more professional manner, for which it 
offered £50 compensation.
Mr A told SOL part of his complaint hadnt been addressed. So, SOL opened a new 
complaint. When SOL replied, it didnt accept that the time taken to deal with the claim was 
unacceptable. 
So, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator said the first complaint was submitted to this service out of time, so we couldnt 
consider it. For the second complaint, the investigator said SOL had offered a settlement 
within a reasonable timescale and had returned the handset when Mr A requested this and 
advised next steps.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the first complaint and whether this is something I can consider. Im satisfied 
that it isnt one I can look at. The complaint was submitted to this service more than six 
months after SOL responded to the complaint. Ive considered all the points Mr A raised 
about the reasons for this. However, these dont change my view on whether I can look at it. 
So, I wont comment on the first complaint any further.
Looking at the second complaint, Mr A complained about how long SOL took to consider the 
claim. Ive looked at the timescales involved. From what Ive seen, SOL inspected the phone 
within a week of the claim being submitted. The same day, it made an offer to settle the 
claim. Mr A wanted his original handset to be returned to him because he thought he was 
going to be able to keep it. SOL returned the phone shortly after this, so Mr A could back up 
the data on it. But SOL told Mr A the handset needed to be returned to it before it could 
settle the claim. 
It is my understanding that Mr A didnt want to return the phone. However, it is normal for 
insurers to retain the damaged item when it is being replaced. So, I dont think SOL did 
anything unusual by saying it needed to be returned before it settled the claim. Im aware Mr 
A has said he was initially told he could keep the damaged handset. However, this doesnt 
change my view on whether it was appropriate for SOL later to say the phone needed to be 
returned. SOL followed up with Mr A on a couple of occasions to find out progress on Mr A 
backing up the phone and to say that if he accepted SOLs offer that it didnt affect his ability 
to take the complaint further.
So, having looked at what happened, I think SOL dealt with the claim in a timely manner. I 
think it also explained what needed to happen before it could settle the claim and that Mr A 
could continue to pursue his complaint even if he accepted the offer. As a result, I dont 
uphold this complaint or require SOL to do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman