DRN-2475255
The complaint
Mr B complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited was unprofessional in its 
handling of a claim he made on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had an accident on 23 September 2020. He made a claim for the damage and LV 
accepted it. Mr Bs policy included an optional extra called similar size hire car. This was 
important to Mr B because he needed to be able to fit a pushchair in the boot. 
On 25 September 2020, one of LVs agents dropped off a hire car, but Mr B told the agent it 
was too small. By 29 September 2020 hed heard nothing further, so he made a call to LV. 
LV accepted it hadnt sent him the right type of hire car. It said it would update its agent who 
would then contact Mr B to arrange an exchange for a larger one. 
Mr B called back on 1 October 2020 as he hadnt heard from LVs agent. The exchange took 
place the following day. 
Further issues arose on 5 October 2020, when Mr B received communication suggesting his 
car had been repaired and was ready for collection. This led to LVs agent contacting him to 
arrange collection of the hire car. Mr B called LV to complain. He mentioned the issues with 
the original hire car being too small and said the repair work wasnt finished, so he wouldnt 
be returning the new hire car. He was due to be inspecting the repair work that day. 
As a solution, LV sought an update from its repairers on the likely completion date of repairs, 
extended the hire car agreement, and offered Mr B £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
it caused by sending him the wrong type of hire car. Mr B chose to escalate his complaint as 
he felt £350 compensation would be fairer. 
In the days that followed, LVs agent arrived at Mr Bs address to collect the hire car, even 
though his own car was still being repaired. LV extended the hire car agreement again upon 
being made aware of this. The repairs were later completed, and Mr B received confirmation 
the claim had been settled and closed on 26 October 2020. 
LV provided its final response letter to Mr B on 19 October 2020. It accepted it hadnt 
handled things as well as it should have done. It agreed to provide feedback to the agents 
involved and offered Mr B £150 compensation as an apology. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service as he remained unhappy, but our investigator 
concluded that LV had already offered fair compensation. Mr B didnt agree, so I need to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case arent in dispute. LV accepts that it made an error in sending Mr B the 
wrong type of hire car. It acknowledges that its repairers sent Mr B misleading information 
about the date it would finish repairing his car. And it agrees its agents caused confusion by 
trying to collect the hire car before Mr Bs car had been repaired. 
What remains in dispute is how LV should put things right. Its offered £150 compensation, 
but Mr B thinks it should pay him £350. Ive therefore gone through each failing in turn and 
weighed up the impact it would have had on Mr B. Ive then stepped back and considered 
whether LVs compensation offer broadly reflects the overall impact its failings had on Mr B. 
The hire car
Under Mr Bs policy, he was entitled to a hire car whilst his car was with LVs repairers until 
the repairs were completed. Mr B also pays for an additional extra which entitled him to a 
similar size hire car. The policy says:
This will be a car of similar size to your car, up to a maximum of 2.0 litre and 7 seats, 
but may not be the same as your car in terms of its exact size, type, value or status.
There does appear to have been an initial delay in sending Mr B a hire car. The accident 
happened on 23 September 2020 and the hire car didnt arrive until 25 September 2020. 
Therefore, Mr B would have been without a car for a day or two (although I understand he 
does have access to another car). 
LV seems to group its hire cars into categories. And it accepts that, due to an error, Mr B 
was sent a hire car from the wrong category, which is why it was too small. 
Mr Bs testimony is that he mentioned that the hire car was too small to LVs agent when it 
was delivered. And he was left with the understanding that someone would contact him to 
rectify the error. That would explain why he waited a few days, until 29 September 2020, 
before contacting LV to ask for an exchange. 
It seems to have taken LV three days to source another hire car and an exchange therefore 
didnt take place until 2 October 2020. This means Mr B was initially without a hire car for a 
day or two, then was left with a hire car that didnt meet his needs for around seven days. 
I know Mr B has told us he had a lot going on at the time. And I recognise the fact that he 
received a hire car that was too small would in itself have been frustrating given hed paid 
extra for a similar size hire car. Ive borne in mind that Mr B didnt initially get the benefit of 
the additional cover hed paid for (at a cost of around £12 per year). And that he had to have 
additional interactions with LV to get a hire car which better suited his needs.
While Mr B suggested during a call with our investigator that he asked LVs agent to take the 
first courtesy car away, LVs contemporaneous notes and Mr Bs complaint form both refer to 
an exchange happening on 2 October 2020. Theres a note from 29 September 2020 which 
says Mr B asked what happens with the car hes currently in (my emphasis). Ive concluded 
from this that although the first hire car was too small for Mr Bs needs, he had use of it until 
it was swapped for a larger one. 
When our investigator asked about the impact of the wrong sized hire car being delivered, 
Mr B highlighted that he wasnt able to work from home. He also said he had another car, 
which he left for his wife and daughter to travel around in while he was at work. 
I think that this would have mitigated the impact of the wrong sized hire car being delivered. 
Mr B ought to have been able to use the first hire car, even though his daughters pushchair wouldnt fit in the boot, to commute to and from work. While he was at work, hes said his 
wife and daughter were able to travel around in his other car, which would suggest that it 
could accommodate the pushchair. Whilst this would have involved Mr B and his wife using 
different cars for different journeys, I cant see that there was any disruption beyond that. 
Our investigator presented Mr B with opportunities to let him know if hed misinterpreted any 
of the above. Mr B hasnt responded with any clarification, or to allege any financial losses. 
Ive inferred from this that our investigators understanding was correct, and that Mr B 
therefore had nothing to add.  
Miscommunication about the completion of repairs
Mr B appears to have recognised straight away that his car hadnt in fact been repaired, as 
hed already been told there was still work outstanding. But it meant he had to have another 
interaction with LV that ought to have been avoided. Thats because LVs agents seem also 
to have been notified that repair work had finished and wanted the hire car to be returned. 
Mr B may briefly have been concerned that he was going to be left without a car again. But I 
think LV remedied that quite promptly by extending the hire car agreement once Mr B told it 
what had happened. So, individually, I think this error had a relatively low impact. 
I recognise though that theres an accumulative impact when multiple things go wrong on a 
claim in quick succession. The fact Mr B had already had issues with the hire car would no 
doubt have compounded the frustration he felt when he received this miscommunication.
LVs agents attempts to collect the hire car before repairs were completed
Its disappointing that, given what had gone before, LV didnt do more to make sure its 
repairers and agents were taking a joined up approach. This meant that LVs agents turned 
up at Mr Bs home address even though the repairs still hadnt been completed. Again, this 
would have caused Mr B to worry for a short time that he was about to be left without a car. 
LV dealt with this issue relatively promptly upon being made aware of it, by further extending 
the hire car agreement. But it was another interaction Mr B had to have with LV that ought to 
have been avoided. And Im sure it would have further compounded his frustrations with LVs 
overall handling of his claim.
Has LV offered fair compensation?
I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B as this is a matter he feels 
strongly about. But taking a step back, Im satisfied that £150 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused by LVs handling of his claim. 
That isnt to say LV got everything right here. It certainly could have handled the claim better. 
But I think the impact of LV sending the wrong sized hire car lasted for a short time, and was 
mitigated by the fact Mr B had access to another car. Whilst I accept each subsequent error 
added to Mr Bs frustrations, they were each rectified reasonably quickly. And the claim itself 
was dealt with in around a month. Im therefore not asking LV to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £150 compensation in line 
with its original offer, if it hasnt done so already. I make no additional award, for the reasons 
given above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman