DRN-3748829
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited handled his 
guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance claim.
All references in this decision to Acasta include any of its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
Mr S contacted his motor insurer and Acasta following the theft of his car in February 2022 
and soon received a settlement offer from the former, which he accepted. He wanted to 
claim on his GAP insurance policy to cover the gap between the motor insurers settlement 
and the higher of either the price he paid for the car or the finance settlement amount that 
was still outstanding on his car finance.
Acasta investigated the GAP claim and offered Mr S a lower settlement figure for it than he 
expected. That was because Acasta felt the motor insurer had undervalued his car.  So, 
Acasta had instead based its settlement offer on what it considered to be the correct  and 
higher  value of the car at the time of the theft. 
Unhappy with Acastas offer, believing it to be too low, Mr S complained. Acasta noted that 
the terms also required Mr S to gain Acastas acceptance of the motor insurers settlement 
figure before accepting it and that he hadnt done that. That being the case, Acasta 
confirmed to Mr B how it had worked out his claim payment and confirmed that, in its view, 
this was in line with its policy terms and its view of the cars market value. 
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They said Mr S was entitled to 
rely on the motor insurers valuation, which was based on an established motor trade guide. 
They felt, in any case, that it probably would have made no difference if Mr S had sought 
Acastas acceptance of the motor insurers settlement.
Acasta didnt agree with the investigators findings. It reiterated that the policy terms made 
clear Mr S should have obtained its authorisation before accepting the motor insurers offer. 
It said even if the motor insurer refused to deal with Acasta as Mr S suggested, it could have 
instructed Mr S to negotiate with the motor insurer himself.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by the investigator, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think the starting point is to see what the policy terms and conditions say about how claims 
such as Mr Ss will be handled. Under the heading Acceptance of Motor Insurers Offer, the 
terms say:
This insurance covers you for the difference between the total loss settlement by 
your motor insurer and either the outstanding balance under your finance agreement 
or purchase invoice price. 
Acasta points out that the terms then require the insured to have sought its acceptance of 
the motor insurers settlement offer before accepting it. 
The terms go on to say that if an offer of settlement from a motor insurers accepted before 
contacting Acasta then it might, at its option, negotiate with the motor insurer on behalf of the 
insured.
Its not in dispute that Mr S didnt seek Acastas acceptance before agreeing to the terms of 
the motor insurers settlement offer. So Acasta was entitled by the policy terms to seek to 
negotiate with Mr Ss motor insurer in the circumstances, although I cant see that it did that. 
Mr S says he asked his motor insurer whether it would have negotiated with Acasta and it 
replied that it wouldnt have. This suggests to me that it wouldnt have made much difference 
to the motor insurers settlement offer even if Mr S had contacted Acasta before accepting 
the motor insurers offer. So, Im not persuaded that Acastas lost out through Mr Ss actions.
Theres also the question raised by Acasta about market value and whether the settlement 
offer from Mr Ss motor insurer was fair. Acasta says the policy terms allow it to use the cars 
market value in settling the claim on the grounds that Mr S didnt gain its acceptance prior 
to accepting the motor insurers offer of settlement. Although I can see the term in Acastas 
Insurance Product Information Document  effectively an intended summary of the 
insurance cover provided at the time of the sale  I cant see the clause or anything similar in 
the policy terms and conditions themselves.
The policy terms and conditions do refer to  and define  market value, but thats in relation 
to the motor insurer offering a replacement car on a new for old basis which is refused by 
the insured. I cant see that Mr Ss motor insurer made such an offer to him, or that he 
refused such an offer. It follows that I dont believe the policy definition of market value has 
the same relevance or importance to Mr Ss claim or subsequent complaint as Acasta 
suggests.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the insurance Mr S held with Acasta ought to have 
covered the difference between the motor insurers settlement and either the outstanding 
balance under his finance agreement or purchase invoice price, whichever is higher. Im not 
persuaded that Acastas settled the claim on that basis, and I think it should pay him 
compensation as a result.
Putting things right
Acasta should, in line with the remaining policy terms, pay Mr S for the shortfall between the 
motor insurers offer and either the outstanding balance under his finance agreement or 
purchase invoice price, whichever is higher. Acasta should add interest to the amount its 
underpaid at the rate of 8% simple a year, from the date of its initial offer to Mr S to the date 
of payment to him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Acasta to take off tax from this interest. Acasta must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right for Mr S as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman