The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way in which Hanley Economic Building Society handled an ISA 
transfer request. She also complains about the service she received afterwards.
Mrs G is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
Mrs G wanted to transfer money out of two ISAs she held with Hanley Economic Building 
Society (HEBS). On 22 November 2019, Mrs G's son took her pass books for each account 
to the branch and explained what she wanted it to do.
Mrs G wanted the first ISA to be closed and the funds to be transferred to a Building Society, 
which Ill call F here. She wanted the £20000 from her second ISA to be transferred to a 
Building Society that Ill refer to here as Y. Mr Gs son told HEBS it would receive a transfer 
instruction from Y in the sum of £20000 to facilitate the funds transfer from the second ISA 
account. After that sum had been transferred to Y it was Mrs Gs intention to leave this ISA 
account open.
On 25 November 2019, HEBS wrote to Mrs G to explain it had transferred all the funds from 
the first ISA to F and closed the account. This letter enclosed the pass book for this account, 
which demonstrated it had done what Mrs G had requested. But it also enclosed the pass 
book for the second account, which remained open. There was no reference to this pass 
book in the letter Mrs G received.
Mrs G was expecting to receive the pass back for the second account only after HEBS had 
processed the £20000 transfer to Y. But this hadnt been completed and the pass book 
hadn't been updated. Mrs G said there was nothing provided by HEBS to explain why the 
second pass book had been returned and why the transfer hadnt taken place.
When Mrs G queried why the second pass book hadnt been updated to show the requested 
transfer had been made HEBS put this down to a miscommunication error. Mrs G 
complained that her instructions hadnt been acted on. And HEBS explained that, in order to 
process Mrs Gs transfer request, it would require her pass book for that account. It offered 
to have the pass book collected by a courier  but this was declined by Mrs G. So it said it 
would send a recorded delivery envelope to assist Mrs G in safely providing her pass book 
to HEBS. It also offered to compensate her £50 for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced.
Mrs G said she didnt receive the envelope HEBS said it would send until much later. So, her 
son had to deliver her pass book to the branch. The following day Mrs G received her pass 
book back, which showed her account had been credited with the £50 HEBS had offered to 
resolve her complaint. 
DRN-1507250Mrs G didnt feel £50 was an adequate sum to reflect the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused. And she was upset HEBS had credited her ISA account with the 
compensation it had offered to resolve her complaint because she said this had put her over 
her ISA allowance limit.
Mrs G referred her complaint to our service where our investigator assessed the evidence 
provided by her and HEBS.  After doing so they didnt uphold this complaint. They thought 
HEBS had dealt with Mrs Gs complaint fairly and thought the compensation it had offered 
was appropriate and fair. So, they didnt ask it needed to do anything more here. But Mrs G 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G so Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can see Mrs G sent our service some detailed submissions about her 
complaint and why she disagrees with our investigators view. I can assure Mrs G and HEBS 
that Ive read everything that they have provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not 
because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs G experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I can appreciate that she was caused distress and 
inconvenience by what happened. But my role is to assess whether I think HEBS made a 
mistake, or treated Mrs G unfairly, such that it needs to now put thing s right.  
This complaint was prompted by HEBS failure to transfer £20000 from Mrs Gs second ISA 
account to her account with Y.  I understand that no concerns have been raised in relation to 
how HEBS processed Mrs Gs transfer request from her first ISA account to F. 
HEBS told our service it sent the pass books for both ISA accounts to its Investment 
Services department with a written document explaining how Mrs G wanted it to deal with 
the funds in each account. But while both pass books were received the written document 
detailing Mrs Gs wishes wasnt  and neither was the transfer instruction directive from Y. 
So, Investment Services didnt know what it was being asked to do insofar as the funds in 
the second ISA account were concerned. It therefore decided to return the pass book for the 
second ISA account to Mrs G.
I understand why HEBS would return the pass book for the second account in those 
circumstances but I think it could have done more before doing so. It could have contacted 
the branch that had dealt with Mrs Gs son during the branch attendance on 22 November 
2019. Alternatively, it could have contacted Mrs G (or her son) directly to ask if there was a 
reason it had received her second pass book.
HEBS recognised this all caused inconvenience to Mrs G. So, it made a proposal as to how 
to put matters right. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint it offered to collect 
Mrs Gs pass book via a courier. When this was declined it explained it would send a prepaid 
envelope for Mrs G to use in posting the pass book to her branch. I think HEBS offer to send a courier was fair. Its over and above what Id have expected it to 
do. And I think it demonstrates HEBS was trying to resolve this problem in the fastest and 
least inconvenient way for Mrs G. 
I appreciate that Mrs G didnt receive the prepaid envelope HEBS sent her until much later. 
And I understand that this resulted in Mrs G feeling as though a branch visit was required in 
order to provide HEBS with the pass book it required. I recognise that was inconvenient and 
time consuming. But I still think HEBS tried to mimimise the inconvenience to Mrs G in 
returning her pass book as far as it was able to.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked HEBS to 
apologise for what happened and pay an appropriate award of compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience she was caused. HEBS has already apologised and offered compensation. 
So, Ive considered whether its offer was a fair and reasonable amount. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs G suffered any financial loss as a result of what 
happened here. I say this because her ISA allowance hasnt been affected by HEBS paying 
the £50 compensation it offered to resolve this complaint. Its since transferred that money to 
a different account. Furthermore, based on what Ive seen, HEBS has put Mrs G back in the 
position shed have been in had her ISA transfer taken place when she initially asked. Im 
therefore not persuaded that I need to consider making an award for financial loss here.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, how much 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive considered that the Mrs G would have needed to spend time contacting HEBS to 
understand why her transfer hadnt been processed in line with her wishes. And she also 
had to return to it her pass book as this was required as part of the ISA transfer process. Its 
only right that HEBS recognises this and compensates Mrs G for this.
However, Im persuaded that the £50 payment HEBS made is a reasonable sum to 
recognise the trouble and upset Mrs G was caused and any costs incurred in communicating 
with it and attending a branch. I havent seen any evidence that shows Mrs G was caused 
distress and inconvenience, or incurred expenses, to the extent that a higher award is 
warranted. And, like our investigator, Im satisfied HEBS did all it could to put Mrs G back in 
the position shed have been in had her transfer taken place when initially requested.
So, while Mrs G may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation HEBS has 
already paid fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience shed have been caused here. 
Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what Id have told HEBS to pay had 
no compensation been offered. So I wont be ordering it to increase its offer.  
I understand Mrs G feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
she will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve her dispute with HEBS informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs G any 
further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont hold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman