DRN-3374895
The complaint
Mrs I complains Barclays Bank UK PLC reported a default on her loan after she applied for a 
payment holiday. Mrs I also complains she was due to resume repayments on the loan but 
the payments werent taken which led to arrears on the account. 
What happened
Mrs I says she left the country suddenly in July 2019 for what was intended to be a six 
month stay abroad. She contacted Barclays to let it know she was no longer at her UK 
address.
Mrs I applied for a payment holiday on two of her loans with Barclays. She says she 
received a message that one of the applications had been declined. And so she thought the 
second application was successful since she didnt receive any messages saying otherwise. 
Mrs I paid her loan repayments by direct debit and usually received SMS alerts if there were 
insufficient funds in the account. Mrs I says she relied on the alerts to ensure her account 
had enough money in it, more so when she was out of the country. But she didnt receive 
any alerts while she was away. And so she says she was unaware there were any issues 
relating to her loan.
As a result of the pandemic Mrs I hasnt been able to return to the UK. She says she 
received SMS messages from a third-party company who told her Barclays had defaulted 
her loan. Mrs I says at this point she contacted Barclays to raise a complaint. 
Mrs I is unhappy she wasnt told her direct debit had been cancelled. And shes unhappy 
Barclays continued to send letters to her UK address regarding the missing repayments 
when she told it she wasnt there at the time. Mrs I says had she been aware Barclays were 
trying to contact her it would have prompted her to get in touch. 
As a result Mrs Is loan fell into arrears and defaulted. Barclays notified the credit reference 
agencies about the default which has impacted Mrs Is credit rating. 
Barclays said it didnt receive any payment holiday requests from Mrs I regarding her loans. 
And even if it had the accounts were not eligible for a payment holiday. Barclays said it only 
considered payment holidays on accounts that had never been in arrears or had arrears of 
two or less of their contractual monthly payments.  Barclays said it followed its procedures 
correctly in applying the default.
Mrs I wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and so referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs I. She said she felt Barclays had acted within its 
terms and conditions and as such she didnt think it needed to take any action in respect of 
Mrs Is complaint. Mrs I wasnt happy with the investigators view and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payment holiday
Mrs I says she applied for a payment holiday on two loans she has with Barclays. She said 
she received a notification from Barclays to confirm one of the requests had been declined. 
However Barclays explained Mrs I wouldnt have been eligible for a payment holiday 
because at that stage her account had a gone away marker applied to it and she didnt meet 
the relevant criteria. 
And since Mrs I didnt receive a message regarding a payment holiday on her second loan 
she assumed that meant it had been agreed.  I dont think its fair to hold Barclays 
responsible for this since it had not told Mrs I that her payment holiday had been approved. 
Contact/address 
Due to circumstances beyond her control Mrs I had to move abroad at short notice and for 
an unspecified period of time. When she contacted Barclays it told her it placed a gone away 
marker on her account. The marker meant any non-regulated correspondence would no 
longer be sent to that address. 
Regardless of whether the marker was removed following Mrs Is online chat with the bank 
or not Barclays has an obligation to contact Mrs I at her last known address regarding the 
arrears. 
I can see Mrs I feels Barclays should have tried to contact her by telephone or send her a 
message. My role isnt to direct a business on how to carry out its services. I need to look at 
whether it has followed the relevant terms and conditions, and regulatory requirements. 
From what Ive seen Barclays didnt attempt to contact Mrs I using any other form of 
communication. But it didnt have to. It only has to write to Mrs Is last known address with 
notice of the default. And so I cant say Barclays has done something wrong or acted unfairly 
towards Mrs I. 
Missed payments/default 
I can see Mrs I feels strongly about the events which have led to the default being applied to 
her credit file. I want to assure Mrs I Ive carefully considered her reasons for not making 
loan repayments and empathise with her position. But I dont think Barclays made an error in 
recording the default. 
I can see Mrs I stopped making repayments to her loan. And Ive seen how Barclays 
contacted her about the arrears leading to a default notice being issued. Barclays contact 
notes show Mrs I had missed at least three direct debit payments. And on that basis the 
direct debit was cancelled. 
Barclays has a duty to accurately record the activity on any credit accounts Mrs I holds with 
it. And Im satisfied it did that. Its not in dispute Mrs I missed her repayments leading to 
Barclays recording a default when she didnt respond to the notice. The loan agreement 
stipulates that, if you miss a contractual payment, we will contact you about it. We also have 
to report missed repayments to credit reference agencies, which may affect your credit record. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong here and I wont be asking it to make 
any adjustments to Mrs Is credit file.
Mrs I says she was abroad and so it was not easy and was expensive to call Barclays by 
phone or to use the internet to check her online banking. But I cant say this is as a result of 
something Barclays did wrong. 
So for the reasons explained I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong here. Im sorry 
to bring Mrs I what I know will be disappointing news. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman