DRN-3978240
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their home insurance at renewal. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ill summarise events.
Mr and Mrs B hold their home insurance with Lloyds. They first took this out in June 
2021. At renewal in 2022 Lloyds quoted a premium that Mr and Mrs B say was 
around 85% higher than the previous year.
Mr and Mrs B went ahead with the policy but complained about the cost.
In July 2022 Lloyds provided its final response. It said the renewal price was in line or 
less than the cost of a policy if Mr and Mrs B had been new customers. And it said it 
believed the property was more likely to suffer damage from escape of water and fire 
in the future and increased premiums as a result.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this Service. They raised concerns about the 
cost, as well as the alleged increased risk to their property.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. As Lloyds had not provided a 
business file to this Service, we only had the evidence Mr and Mrs B had presented. 
With this, she was not satisfied Lloyds premium increase was justified. 
Following the assessment, Lloyds did provide a file for this Service to consider, 
including details from its underwriter giving its position on risk. 
Another Investigator reviewed this evidence and outlined to Mr and Mrs B she was 
reviewing the commercially sensitive underwriting criteria. She said Lloyds was 
entitled to take its own approach to assessing risk, and here it had demonstrated that 
its renewal price increase was reflective of Lloyds position of that risk. 
She commented that Mr and Mrs Bs previous years premium was likely reflective of 
a new customer discount which would no longer apply. And highlighted Lloyds had 
invited Mr and Mrs B to shop around for another policy if they were unhappy.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said Lloyds werent justified in their approach. And 
that inviting them to shop around was an excuse on Lloyds part, and they had 
renewed on the basis of furthering their complaint. And that this Service should 
prevent unfair practices.
The Investigator commented that she had reviewed the underwriting criteria carefully. 
That wed expect insurers to invite customers to shop around as risk appetites may 
differ between insurers. She also highlighted that we are not the regulator and cannot 
punish or fine businesses.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is Mr and Mrs B believe Lloyds have unjustifiably 
increased their insurance premium.
This Service, nor the regulator, will direct Insurers on the prices they charge or the 
methods an insurer might use to calculate a price. But we will look into whether a 
customer has been treated fairly and whether an insurer has made a mistake when 
calculating a premium. We will also look at the information provided to ensure a 
consumer is given an informed choice when deciding to take a policy.
Lloyds has said the propertys risk and price for escape of water and fire has 
increased. Ive reviewed all of the underwriting criteria and commentary it has 
provided this Service and Im satisfied this is correct.
As our Investigator has highlighted, it is also likely Mr and Mrs Bs policy from the 
previous year included a new customer discount. So, given wider industry changes 
this will also have factored into the pricing.
For these reasons Im satisfied Lloyds calculated the premium correctly and treated 
Mr and Mrs B as it would any other customer.
Its also evident to me that Lloyds presented the option to Mr and Mrs B to go 
elsewhere if they wished to shop around for a cheaper policy. Mr and Mrs B have 
said they stayed with Lloyds for reasons of their own  but its clear to me they were 
aware this was an option and chose not to.
Ive taken into account all of the other points and commentary Mr and Mrs B have 
made, but these havent changed my mind.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman