DRN-2979049
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway (STB or 
the lender) was irresponsible to have agreed car finance for her in May 2013.
  
What happened
 STB agreed credit for Miss S through an intermediary in May 2013 in order for her to 
acquire a car. The cash price of the car was £9,525. The total amount owing under 
the finance agreement (including interest and fees) came to £16,940. Miss S paid a 
deposit of £300, and the remainder was to be repaid over 60 monthly instalments of 
£271 with a final payment of £376 (Ive rounded figures to the nearest pound).
The finance was granted under an agreement which allowed Miss S the option to 
purchase the car with the final payment once shed met her monthly repayments. 
STB remained the vehicle owner until that point and Miss S was, in essence, 
paying for the use of it. She also had the option of voluntarily terminating the 
agreement at any point and returning the car. This option would limit Miss Ss total 
liability to half the amount owing, in other words £8,470, if shed taken reasonable 
care of the car.
I can see from the account history that Miss S missed some payments over the years 
and that her account was generally in arrears of a few hundred pounds from mid-2016. 
She stopped paying altogether in July 2017. At that point the balance owing was less 
than £4,000. This was fully repaid by way of a lump-sum payment of £3,900 in July 
2018. I understand this lump sum was the result of an insurance payment after the car 
had been involved in an accident and was classed as a write-off by the insurers.
Miss S says that STB was irresponsible to have lent to her because the finance was 
unaffordable. She says she was borrowing from payday lenders at that time. STB says 
that Miss Ss application was processed in line with its lending criteria, which included 
the completion of an affordability assessment and it met the necessary credit file checks.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint but didnt recommended that it 
be upheld. They found that the lenders checks werent proportionate but that further 
checks wouldnt have shown the finance to be unaffordable for her.
Miss S didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and resolve and so the complaint came to me. I issued 
a provisional decision on the 14 August explaining why I was minded to uphold 
Miss Ss complaint. I gave both parties a month to respond  Miss S accepted my 
provisional decision but Ive had no response from STB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
STB hasnt commented on my provisional conclusions or my proposed redress, nor has 
it provided any new information for me to consider. Having reviewed the matter again, I 
havent found any reason to depart from my provisional conclusions or depart from my 
proposed redress. For completeness, Ill set out below my reasons for upholding 
Miss Ss complaint.  
As Id said in my provisional decision, before agreeing credit for Miss S, STB needed 
to check that she could afford to meet her repayments sustainably, in other words 
without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness, without having to borrow further, 
and while meeting other debt payments and other normal/reasonable outgoings. 
These checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Miss Ss 
circumstances. Ultimately, STB needed to treat Miss S fairly and take full account of 
her interests when making its lending decision.
In coming to a decision on Miss Ss case, I first considered whether or not STB completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing her finance application to satisfy 
itself that she would be able to repay the finance in a sustainable way.
STB says that it asked Miss S about her income and took a copy of her payslip as 
evidence. Her monthly salary at the time was about £1,200 and this was confirmed by the 
payslip. It says it carried out the necessary credit file checks but I dont know if STB 
means it looked at Miss Ss credit record for identity purposes, for example, or to check 
her existing level of credit. STB concluded from its checks that Miss S had no outgoings 
and estimated that she would have a monthly disposable income of almost £950 after 
making her loan repayment. To quote, STB said in its final response to Miss S:
Upon reviewing your application, I can confirm this was processed in line with our lending 
criteria, which included the completion of an affordability assessment and met the 
necessary credit file checks. We are satisfied from the information that was available to us 
at the time that the correct lending decision was made. This reflected you had no monthly 
commitments recorded, therefore following the deduction of the monthly payment amount 
for the Agreement of £271.06, this left a disposable income of £944.86.
Miss S was living with her parents at the time. I can understand that this might mean that 
she had fewer financial responsibilities than someone who was not living with their 
parents but STB estimated that she had none. Im afraid I cant accept that this was 
sufficient in the circumstances of this case. Miss S was taking on a financial commitment 
which meant paying over 20% of her salary each month for five years and it doesnt seem 
to me that STB took into account any living costs or existing credit commitments. It may 
be that the lender checked Miss Ss credit file  as I explained I am not sure that it did  
and I have reviewed a copy shes provided. This shows she was borrowing from short 
term lenders at that time and I think this information should also have prompted further 
checks, had STB been so aware.
Miss S also provided her personal bank statements from the time. Im not suggesting this 
is the information STB ought to have relied on, but it gives me some insight into
Miss Ss finances and what further checks might have revealed. I can see that Miss S had 
monthly expenses, for example food and travel costs. She was also paying monthly 
mobile phone, media and home insurance bills each month amounting to about £150 the 
month the agreement began, for example. Miss S had missed some payments on one of 
her credit accounts in the previous few months, paid unarranged overdraft charges the 
month before, and she was borrowing from several short-term lenders.Let me start by saying that I dont think the fact that Miss S was borrowing expensive 
credit elsewhere ought to have automatically led to STB declining her for this finance. 
However, Miss S had at least three active short-term loans when the credit was agreed, 
amounting to over £1,000. Clearly, she wasnt going to be able to repay these and repay 
any further credit without borrowing again. 
Miss S was spending more than her monthly salary on repaying debt and it seems she 
was caught in a cycle of borrowing expensive short-term credit and had been for at least 
six months. Agreeing further debt for her under such circumstances was unfair as it 
prolonged her reliance on this type of credit. I can see from Miss Ss credit file that she 
continued to borrow from high-cost lenders throughout the period of this finance. Her 
record shows missed payments, sustained arrears, payment plans and defaulted 
accounts from late 2013 onwards.
On balance, I dont think its likely that any further information about Miss Ss financial 
affairs would have reassured STB that she would have been able to meet her repayments 
sustainably. So Ive concluded that STB was irresponsible to have entered into this 
agreement with her.
STB says that the finance was affordable for Miss S prior to changes in her 
circumstances throughout 2017 and 2018. I can see from the contact notes it provided 
that Miss S lost her job in late 2016 and suffered health issues in 2017 and 2018 and I 
can understand why these circumstances would cause obvious and immediate problems 
for her. However, from everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Miss S 
struggled from the outset to meet her repayments sustainably, which later events 
compounded.
Putting things right
 In this case, I think Miss S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
In other words, she isnt liable for any interest, charges or fees associated with the 
agreement. Id expect Miss S to repay the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of 
these funds or, in this case, the use of a car in exchange for the funds.
This has the effect of reducing the amount Miss S owes under the agreement to the 
capital borrowed, in other words £9,525 being the cash price of the car. I understand 
the car was classed as a write-off following an accident and Miss Ss insurance cleared 
the remaining few thousand pounds owing, but I dont consider this impacts on the 
redress Ive set out below. 
STB should:
a) Treat all payments, including the deposit and any upfront or late payment fees,
Miss S made as payments towards the cash price of the car; and
b) Refund any payments Miss S has made above the cash price along with 8% 
per annum simple interest* from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement to reflect the fact that she should not have been deprived of these 
funds; and
c) Remove all adverse information about this loan from Miss Ss credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires STB to take off tax from this interest. STB must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint about Secure Trust Bank 
Plc trading as Moneyway and it needs to put things right as Ive outlined.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman