DRN-3307246
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the repairs U K Insurance Limited (UKI) completed after it caused 
additional damage when handling her buildings insurance claim. Any reference to UKIs 
actions includes those of its agents and contractors.
What happened
Miss F claimed under her policy when her ceiling cracked during neighbouring building work. 
UKI appointed contractors to repair the ceiling. However, Miss F complained that the 
contractors didnt lay a protective cover on her wood floors or carpet when removing the 
ceiling. This matter was considered under a separate complaint and UKI agreed to clean the 
carpet and repaint the wood floors.
Although UKI cleaned her carpet, Miss F complained that it was not done to a satisfactory 
standard. She also said UKI used an inappropriate product to repaint her wood floor, which 
took too long to dry. As a result her pet walked the wet paint onto her carpet. 
To resolve her complaint, Miss F wants UKI to replace her carpet.
UKI looked into Miss Fs complaint. It said the carpet, after cleaning, was in a better 
condition than before any work was done, so it didnt think it had caused any long-lasting 
damage. In response to Miss Fs request for a replacement carpet, UKI said it couldnt be 
held responsible for her pet walking paint onto it.
Miss F then raised a further complaint that the paint on the wood floor chipped within two 
weeks. UKI agreed to our service considering the new issue as part of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. He said UKI had cleaned the carpet and 
repainted the floor as it agreed to do, and it was unreasonable to expect it to replace the 
carpet if it was damaged later by Miss Fs pet. Our investigator asked UKI about the chipped 
paint and he thought it made a reasonable offer to inspect it.
Miss F didnt agree. She said the paint on the carpet from her pet had cleaned up, but the 
remaining stain and damage to the carpet edges was due to UKIs contractors failing to 
protect the floor. Miss F said UKIs contractors agreed the damage was due to poor 
workmanship and she remained of the opinion that UKI should replace her carpet.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending not to uphold 
Miss Fs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
As Ive addressed a further issue, with UKIs permission, Ive reached a provisional 
decision which allows each party to comment again on the evidence. Ill explain.
Carpet
The overriding issue is that Miss F thinks UKI should replace her carpet because it hasnt 
made good the damage it caused. 
UKI didnt dispute that its contractors failed to protect Miss Fs carpet or wood floor when 
it completed repairs to her ceiling. To put matters right it cleaned the carpet and repainted 
the wood floor. It seems the damage was caused mainly by plaster dust from the ceiling 
work, so its reasonable to expect that cleaning would bring the carpet back to its pre-loss 
condition. 
Ive looked at the photos UKI and Miss F provided showing the carpet before and after 
cleaning. While Miss F doesnt think the standard is acceptable, I think UKIs conclusion 
that the photos show the carpet in as good, if not better, condition after cleaning than it 
was before the repairs is reasonable. Although Miss F thought UKI shouldve replaced the 
carpet from the start, and she still wants that, Im satisfied that the evidence shows UKI 
has returned the carpet to its pre-loss condition.
Miss F provided further photos showing the stair edge of the carpet. She said UKIs 
contractor told her that damage to the edges of the carpet were due to poor workmanship 
and failure to apply protective masking. However, UKI denied that was the case and it 
provided a copy of the contractors report which said the damage was caused simply [by] 
wear and tear. Miss F confirmed the carpet wasnt new, so I think its reasonable to 
expect a certain level of wear and tear, especially on a staircase. Looking at the photos, 
Im persuaded that they support UKIs position. I cant fairly say the photos show any 
significant areas of damage which can reasonably be attributed to inadequate cleaning or 
poor workmanship. 
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI cleaned the carpet to bring it back at least to its pre-loss 
condition. I see no reason to ask UKI to replace the carpet.
Miss F raised a further complaint that the paint UKI used for her wood floor was 
inappropriate, resulting in a lengthy drying time during which her pet walked paint onto 
the carpet. UKI said the paint it used was suitable for wood floors, both internal and 
external. 
Ive looked at the specific product used and the description confirms what UKI said. So I 
cant reasonably say it used an inappropriate product. While it may not have been quick 
to dry, that doesnt mean UKI should be held responsible for Miss Fs pet walking over the 
wet paint. I understand she was able to clean up the paint transferred to the carpet, so 
her claim isnt for damage caused by her pet. 
The position, then, is as follows:
The photos and contractor report show that UKI cleaned the carpet to at least a 
satisfactory standard.
UKI used paint sold for the purpose of painting internal wood floors.
Therefore, I cant reasonably say theres any more UKI needs to do in respect of Miss Fs 
complaint about her carpet.Chipped paint
Turning to the matter of the floor paint, Miss F complained that it chipped within two 
weeks. UKI agreed to inspect the floor and concluded that the cause was wear and tear. 
Ive looked at the photos Miss F provided. There are a couple of small chips in the paint, 
and I accept that Miss F could expect the floor to remain in good condition during normal 
use. But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude that the chips are the result of poor 
workmanship on UKIs part. They could equally be caused by heels, pet claws, or indeed 
anything dropped or dragged on the surface. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair 
to say that UKI should repaint the floor again. I dont plan to ask UKI to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI had nothing further to add.
Miss F remained unhappy with the outcome, and she repeated her view that UKI hadnt 
cleaned her carpet properly or used fit for purpose floor paint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Miss Fs comments but in the absence of any new or more persuasive 
evidence, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint.
Miss F said UKIs cleaning contractor was at her home for a matter of minutes and, in her 
opinion, didnt use a proper carpet cleaning machine. Ive thought again about the condition 
of the carpet after cleaning, and I cant reasonably say that the evidence supports what Miss 
F says. Regardless of how long the cleaning contractor was there, or the type of machine 
used, the photos show that the carpet was restored to pre-loss condition. So, while Miss F 
remains dissatisfied with her carpet, I see no reason to ask UKI to replace it.
Miss F again said that UKI used a paint on her wood floor which wasn't fit for purpose. She 
said the floor continues to chip. I accept that the photos show some small chips but, as I ve 
said, I cant fairly hold UKI responsible when theres no evidence of how those chips 
occurred. Also, the paint it used was sold as an internal, wood floor paint, so I cant 
reasonably say it wasnt fit for purpose.
Overall, I can sympathise with Miss F that shes experienced the need for repair work 
because of the actions of her neighbours and UKIs contractors. However, I havent seen 
anything which causes me to think UKI should replace the carpet or do anything more about 
the wood floor.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman