DRN-2342804
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have treated the claim he made on his 
Property Owners Insurance Policy in September 2019 as a duplicate of a previous claim 
hed made. He is also unhappy with the service he received.
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
summary of some key events here. Mr R is a landlord and had property owners insurance 
which included the benefit of cover for certain legal expenses and was provided by UKI. 
In 2019 Mr R was in dispute with a tenant. Acting outside of his insurance policy, he went to 
court and in March 2019 obtained an order which directed that his tenant pay him just under 
£22,000. Mr R says this figure was made up of rental arrears, amounts for damage to his 
premises and outstanding utility bills. 
In April 2019 Mr R made a claim to UKI, he wanted assistance to enforce his court order 
(which the tenant had applied to have set aside) and in relation to a possession order for the 
same property. Ultimately UKI appointed a solicitor B to assist. B obtained further 
information and in July 2019 shared their opinion on the prospects of Mr Rs legal action 
succeeding (which was a requirement for cover under the policy). B concluded that there 
were reasonable prospects of success for him to defend the possession order that hed 
obtained. But they didnt feel there were reasonable prospects of defending the tenants 
application to have the court order (rent arrears, damage etc) set aside.
As a result of this UKI declined to offer further cover to defend the set aside application and 
B ceased acting for Mr R. B had advised that a consent order be agreed to set the court 
order aside, but Mr R didnt accept this. In September 2019 Mr R contacted UKI to make 
another claim. He said he wanted to pursue his tenants for damage theyd caused to his 
property. UKI didnt immediately respond to the claim, but later considered it to be a 
duplicate of his original claim where cover had been withdrawn. Mr R was unhappy with this, 
he considers this to be a separate and distinct new claim. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. They 
thought that UKIs decision was fair in relation to the claim. But they recommended that £150 
compensation be paid for delays in acknowledging Mr Rs claim. Mr R doesnt accept this 
and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different outcome to our investigator. Im intending to uphold this complaint in part, and Ill 
explain why.  
I accept that there are differences between what took place between Mr R and his tenant (as 
described above), and the claim he now wishes to make. Previously B had considered the 
prospects of success of defending an application to have Mr Rs court order set aside. But 
rather than wishing to defend such an application, Mr R now wants to issue a new claim  
solely in relation to damage to his property. 
Mr Rs policy requires that any legal claim has reasonable prospects. These are defined in 
the policy as: For civil cases, the prospects that the Insured Person will recover losses or 
damagesmust be at least 51%... This is a very common term in this type of insurance and 
I dont think it is inherently unfair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client 
wouldnt generally continue if they were advised they were unlikely to win. So, I dont think 
an insurer should have to either. 
UKI themselves arent legal experts and so I think its fair for them to rely on suitably 
qualified legal advice when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so 
obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to identify the error. In this case, B have 
already considered the prospects of Mr R successfully defending an application to have his 
existing court order set aside. And one element of this was damage caused by the tenants. 
An email from B to UKI on 24 July 2019 confirms that I am of the view that the prospects 
are no longer thereSimilarly, there are aspects of the claim that are poorly pleaded. Im 
satisfied that the author of that email is suitably qualified, and I dont consider its content to 
be obviously wrong. The same email referred to there still being positive prospects of 
defending Mr Rs possession order. 
So whilst this was a legal opinion on the prospects of successfully defending an application 
to have an order set aside, in essence, the chances of winning the dispute were being 
considered... The court order in question already included a claim for damage (to the same 
property, and allegedly by the same tenant). So, I think its reasonable for UKI to rely on this 
opinion to support that there arent reasonable prospects of such a claim succeeding. Had 
there been, I think B would have commented on that, as they did in relation to the 
possession order (which they said did have prospects of success). 
This is further supported by another email from B to UKI dated 18 September 2019 which 
includes: bar facilitating settlement, there were insufficient prospects for us to assist the 
client. Again, I think this makes clear that except for facilitating the consent order, there 
were insufficient prospects of success.
So, whilst the claim wasnt, strictly speaking, a duplicate. The core issue of damage caused 
by Mr Rs tenant to his property had already been considered by B who didnt think it had 
reasonable prospects of success. As such, I think its reasonable for UKI to rely on that and I 
dont think them declining the claim is unfair.
Mr R has highlighted that in an email dated 26 July 2019 B said I do very much recommend 
that you agree to look to set this judgement aside. There is nothing preventing a further 
claim being issued at a later date, and the wording of the proposed Consent Order will in no 
way limit your ability to do this. Ive considered this but it doesnt make a difference to my 
thoughts on UKIs decision. B are saying that if Mr R agreed to set the order aside by 
consent, he could issue a new legal claim in the future. This doesnt change that the 
requirements of the policy still need to be met with regard to any insurance claim with UKI. B 
were talking about Mr Rs ability to issue a new legal claim if he agreed to set the existing 
order aside. 
If Mr R were to provide UKI with a legal opinion which concluded a claim against his former 
tenant for damage caused to his property did have a 51% or greater chance of succeeding, Id expect UKI to further consider it (against the remaining terms and conditions). Id also 
expect UKI to consider reimbursing Mr R the reasonable cost of obtaining that opinion (if 
positive). But as things stand, I dont think UKI need to do anything further. Mr R may wish to 
seek independent advice before incurring costs in this regard, but that is a matter for him. 
Ive also considered the service that UKI provided when Mr R attempted to make his claim in 
September 2019. UKI accept that the service could have been better, so all that needs to be 
decided is what, if anything, needs to be done to put things right. Being involved in disputes 
and litigation will always be stressful and Im mindful that Mr R is engaged as a landlord in a 
professional capacity. Mr R was submitting a claim which although slightly different (defence 
of an application to set aside compared to issuing a new claim), dealt largely with the same 
facts. And for the reasons explained above, the prospects of this had already been 
explained. Im not persuaded that the lack of acknowledgement that Mr R received to his 
initial claim had a significant impact. But I do think that UKI caused Mr R some avoidable 
inconvenience and I think that £100 compensation would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above but subject to any further information I receive from either 
UKI or Mr R, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part and direct that UK Insurance 
Limited pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
UKI responded and said that they accepted my provisional decision. Mr R responded 
disagreeing and making some further points. As both sides have now had an opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a detailed response to my provisional decision. His strength of feeling about 
the matter is clear. Ive carefully considered all hes said, but I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail. So if I dont mention a particular point, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it  its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Much of Mr Rs submissions concern his dissatisfaction with how the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has handled his complaint. We have a separate process for complaints about our 
service, and it would be inappropriate for me to comment on that here.
Mr R has also said that he believes his complaint has the incorrect respondent. He says UKI 
arent his insurer. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Our investigator emailed Mr R in 
January 2021 to explain the change of respondent. UKI underwrite the relevant section of 
Mr Rs policy and another business D acts as claims handlers for UKI. But in doing so D are 
an agent of UKI who retain overall responsibility and Im satisfied are the correct respondent 
for this complaint.
Mr R points out that the court order he initially obtained as referred to in the background 
above wasnt obtained independently, but with the benefit of insurance cover. Im prepared 
to accept Mr Rs correction on this point. But how the initial court order was obtained, doesnt 
impact on the outcome of his complaint that UKI treated his September 2019 claim as a 
duplicate. Mr R says Ive performed the role of the Legal Ombudsman and have made findings beyond 
my jurisdiction. I disagree this is the case. My findings are solely in relation to UKI. The crux 
of the matter here is that there was a legal opinion which I believe it is fair for UKI to rely 
upon to decline to take further action with the claim. I make no comment as to the underlying 
merits of that legal opinion beyond concluding that I dont believe it to be obviously incorrect. 
And of course, stating that I still believe it is fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on it despite 
the opinion being based on defence of an application to set aside rather than to pursue a 
new claim  for the reasons Ive already explained. 
Mr R says that UKI wouldnt have set up his complaint in the first place if it had been a 
duplicate. I wouldnt necessarily expect an insurer to always be able to identify a claim as a 
duplicate upon first notification. Id expect them to set up the claim and there will always then 
be further assessment of a variety of matters and consideration of the terms and conditions 
of the policy. I think this is fair.   
Mr R also says that he ought to be covered for damage to his property and that he has a 
large sum available as the limit of indemnity on his policy. I agree that Mr Rs policy 
potentially covers him, but like all policies it is always subject to the terms and conditions 
being met. This isnt unfair or unreasonable, the limit of indemnity is only for claims that are 
accepted and meet (and continue to meet) the conditions and requirements of the policy. In 
this case, Ive acknowledged that the claim Mr R was making wasnt strictly speaking a 
duplicate. But I dont think this has made a difference as UKI already had a legal opinion to 
rely on as to why they wouldnt take further action. Ive also pointed out that if Mr R provides 
a supportive legal opinion, Id expect UKI to give the matter further consideration (and also to 
consider reimbursement of the costs of that opinion if positive). 
As Ive covered above, its accepted that better service could have been provided when 
communicating with Mr R. Ive considered Mr Rs submissions but Im not persuaded that my 
intended compensation award of £100 ought to be increased. I consider it to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances for any avoidable inconvenience that UKI caused. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman