DRN-3049734
The complaint
Ms B is represented. She says Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for her unsuitable 
investment of £20,000, in January 2017, in UK Property Development Solutions (UKPDS) 
PLC bonds (the bonds). CM disputes the complaint. Its principal says he never met Ms B, 
that he was never introduced to her, that he never communicated with her in any way and 
that CM did not advise her investment in the bonds. For these reasons, CM says this service 
does not have jurisdiction to address Ms Bs complaint. 
What happened
The matter of this services jurisdiction to address the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman  to me. On 3 September 2021 I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) which 
concluded that we have jurisdiction to address the complaint. I addressed CMs dispute 
(express and implicit) over Ms Bs eligibility as a complainant and over the activity featured in 
the complaint and I found that Ms B is an eligible complainant and that her complaint is 
about a regulated activity, because CM advised her investment into the bonds. 
After the JD the case investigator referred the parties to her findings on merit and invited 
their comments, before referring the case back to me for a decision on merits. Neither CM 
nor Ms Bs representative appear to have provided comments.
A copy of Ms Bs application for the bonds includes her application details and her signature 
(dated 11 January 2017). In the section for her advisers details CMs principals name is 
given. CMs details (including its FCA number) as the Authorised Adviser and its principals 
signature (also dated 11 January 2017) also feature. A copy of Ms Bs certificate for the 
bonds, with a slight error in the spelling of her name, confirms that 200 bonds were issued to 
her on 31 January 2017. 
A copy of UKPDS brochure has been provided to us. Based on the information within it, 
UKPDS sought to raise £20 million; the bonds required a minimum investment of £10,000; 
they had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 18 months); and they were used by 
UKPDS to raise the required capital, which it then issued as a loan(s) to a third-party firm for 
the business of residential and commercial property acquisition, development and sale. It 
appears that the proceeds of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which 
then provided funds to be used in paying the 10% coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the 
bonds). 
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. She referred to Ms B being 
relatively young at the time of the investment, earning less than £10,000 per year and being 
without any savings at the time. She noted that Ms B had no other investments, that she had 
no previous investment experience and that the capital invested in the bonds was a gift. 
Given this profile, she concluded that CM had failed to properly assess suitability of the 
bonds for her and that had it done so it would have found that the bonds were unsuitable for 
her  because they were particularly high-risk investments, they were mini bonds issued by 
companies too small or too new to raise capital through more traditional methods and they 
were therefore mini bonds for companies that had a higher risk of failure. The investigator 
said Ms B should not have been advised to expose her capital to any risk, given her profile 
at the time (including her lack of experience and incapacity for loss), so the high-risk bonds 
were unsuitable for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in the JD  
 I am satisfied that CM undertook responsibility for advising Ms B s investment in the 
bonds and for conveying the message to her that they were suitable for her. If, as its 
principal argues, CM did not give such advice directly to her, its undertaking confirms that it 
assessed suitability of the bonds for her and the same undertaking communicated the 
outcome of its assessment to her. If CM says it conducted no such assessment  which 
appears to be implausible, given that such a claim conflicts with the express undertaking it 
gave  then the implications that arise are that CMs undertaking was false, that such false 
undertaking was relied upon by Ms B, and that CM holds responsibility for misleading her 
investment in the bond  and doing so by undertaking to have assessed suitability (and 
communicating its advice that the bonds were suitable) when it had not.
I retain the above findings, so CM stands responsible for advising Ms Bs investment in the 
bonds.
The bonds were used by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to third-party 
firms for the business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the 
proceeds of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided 
funds to be used in paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). 
This meant there were a number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for Ms Bs 
investment. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short 12 to 18 months term for the bonds and in the context of the 
bonds brochures confirmation that the end users operations included the use of an  
advanced computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which 
suggests investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced 
managers.
I have not seen evidence that Ms B was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for her to understand the risks involved in the bonds. To the contrary, and 
as the investigator noted, available evidence is that she had no previous investment 
experience, had no other investments at the time, had a relatively modest level of annual 
income and, without savings, she had no capacity for loss. The invested capital appears to 
have been a gift to her. Overall, and at the time of the investment, her profile was far from 
one of an investor seeking a high-risk and sophisticated investment, and such an investment 
would have been unsuitable for her. The bonds were such an investment. They were too 
risky for her to undertake, too complex for her to properly understand and she had no 
capacity to cope with the potential for loss within them.Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Ms B, and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Ms B as close as I can to the position she would probably 
now be in if she had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the 
view that she would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given 
available information, as summarised above, of her profile at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate Ms B fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of her bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay her compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay her interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide her with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Ms Bs 
UKPDS 
PLC bondsStill Existsthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Ms B agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Ms B that she repay to CM any amount 
she may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms B had no capacity for loss and should not have been exposed to investment risks. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that Ms Bs profile is matched by this benchmark. Using it to calculate 
redress for her will broadly reflect the sort of return she could have obtained from an 
investment suited to her profile.    
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Ms Bs complaint. I order Craig Mitchell to pay her 
compensation as set out above and to provide her with a calculation of the compensation in 
a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman