DRN-3071171
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has dealt with 
his mortgage account.
On 23 September 2021 I issued a decision in which I explained which parts of this complaint 
we were able to consider. This decision deals with the merits of the issues that are within 
jurisdiction, which are:
Halifaxs refusal of a Sale of Property (SOP) hold;
poor customer service and failure to respond to correspondence.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Mr W has had a mortgage with Halifax since 2008. He has been in financial difficulty for 
some years and hasnt made a payment since 2017. Arrears of approximately £100,000 
have accrued. As a result, Halifax instructed its solicitors to take possession action. I 
understand the case has been adjourned.
On 30 January 2019 Halifax erroneously sent out a letter stating that it would be enforcing a 
possession order. However no order had been granted at that time. Understandably, Mr W 
complained, but in its final response of 18 February 2019 Halifax simply referred back to 
previous final response letters that had covered other complaints, and did not actually 
address Mr Ws complaint about this specific issue.
In May 2019 Halifax asked Mr W for an update on his situation and sent him a SOP form. (A 
SOP hold is a suspension of collection activity, calls and letters for three months whilst the 
property mortgaged to Halifax is sold.) After receiving the form back in July 2019, Halifax 
wasnt able to agree to a SOP hold. 
Mr W complained about the banks refusal of the SOP hold. He also complained about 
Halifaxs failure to reply to his correspondence and about dealing with different people at the 
bank. A final response letter was sent on 28 November 2019, rejecting the complaint.
Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. After the complaint was with our 
service, Halifax reviewed its file and acknowledged that it hadnt dealt with Mr Ws complaint 
made in late January 2019 about the incorrect letter regarding enforcement action. Halifax 
offered compensation of £150 for the upset caused by this, and £150 for not addressing the 
complaint at the time it had been made.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong in 
relation to its decision to decline the SOP hold, given that the property Mr W was selling was 
a commercial property, rather than the property mortgaged to Halifax. 
The investigator noted that there had been considerable contact between Mr W and Halifax 
by telephone, and in writing. The investigator didnt think Halifax had failed to respond to 
letters sent by Mr W. He noted Mr W would write letters confirming telephone conversations, 
with timelines of dates hed spoken to the bank, and that he wrote to different departments. 
The investigator didnt think every letter sent by Mr W warranted a response, or that thered 
been any impact on the arrears simply because Halifax hadnt responded to every letter sent 
by Mr W.
The investigator thought the compensation offered by Halifax for sending out an incorrect 
letter in January 2019 (£150) and for not addressing Mr Ws complaint about this (£150) was 
fair and reasonable. He didnt think the bank needed to do anything further.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings. He asked for an extension of time to 
6 September 2021 to provide further evidence and arguments. That date has now passed 
but Mr W hasnt provided any further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made detailed submissions, as well as sending us his correspondence with 
Halifax. Ive considered all of this, but I dont think its necessary to address each and every 
point that Mr W has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im 
required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be 
the most important.
The crux of this matter is that Mr W has very substantial mortgage arrears, and he doesnt 
appear to be in a position to discharge those arrears or to maintain the monthly mortgage 
payments. I am conscious that Mr W has been making attempts to sell commercial property 
in order to repay the arrears, but for various reasons unconnected with Halifax, this hasnt 
happened.
I can see that in 2019 Halifax explored with Mr W whether a SOP hold could be granted. If it 
had been agreed, this would have given Mr W three months when Halifax would suspend 
collections activity, legal action, and letters and phone calls about arrears while a sale of the 
property was going through. 
Halifaxs policy is that a SOP hold can be granted if the property being sold is that which is 
mortgaged to Halifax. But this wasnt what Mr W was proposing; he was trying to sell a 
commercial property that wasnt the subject of this mortgage account. As a result, he didnt 
meet the criteria for a SOP hold and Halifax was thus entitled to decline the request.Mr W feels Halifax wasted his time by leading him to believe it might agree to a SOP hold. 
Halifax had been told in 2018 that Mr W wanted to sell a commercial property. But Im 
satisfied that a year later Halifax was entitled to review Mr Ws proposals. For all Halifax 
knew, Mr W might have decided to sell the mortgaged property, so I dont think Halifax did 
anything wrong or wasted Mr Ws time in asking him to submit his proposals for Halifaxs 
consideration. The fact is that Mr W hasnt sold his commercial property, so notwithstanding 
that the SOP hold wasnt agreed, its not changed Mr Ws position at all or caused him any 
detriment. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Mr W also says Halifax failed to respond to his correspondence. Mr W has provided us with 
numerous letters which he says havent been dealt with to his satisfaction. Here I agree with 
the investigator that I dont think Halifax needed to reply to each and every letter, particularly 
as much of Mr Ws correspondence was confirming telephone conversations that were 
already noted in Halifaxs contact notes.
Mr W also corresponded with several different departments or branches at the bank, but in 
order to avoid duplication, Im satisfied Halifax isnt required to assign separate members of 
staff to deal with the correspondence. This is particularly so where letters were simply 
restating what had been discussed on the phone, with whom, and when.
Overall, looking at the contact notes, Im not persuaded Halifax failed properly to engage 
with Mr W or address the issues he was raising (other than the matter referred to below). 
Whilst Mr W felt that he needed to confirm every conversation with the bank in writing, this 
didnt, in my opinion, require an acknowledgement or response from Halifax. Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
Halifax has acknowledged that it overlooked a complaint Mr W had made in January 2019 
after the bank sent out  by mistake  a letter saying it was going to enforce a possession 
order. At that point, no possession order had been granted (and I understand the 
proceedings have been adjourned). Im glad to see the bank has acknowledged its error. 
Halifax has offered compensation of £150 for sending out the letter and a further £150 for 
not responding to Mr Ws complaint about this  a total of £300. I think this is fair and 
reasonable, and proportionate to the errors made by the bank. I dont think Halifax is 
required to do anything further in relation to this.
Further comments: Possession cases were put on hold as a result of the pandemic, but in 
the foreseeable future, the courts will be re-opening for these types of cases. I appreciate 
that this is likely to be very worrying for Mr W.
It would be remiss of me if I did not make it clear to Mr W that, even if he was to make 
another complaint about this mortgage, Halifax is not obliged to put any legal action on 
hold  either while it investigates the complaint or if the complaint is escalated to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. It is not disputed by Mr W that the mortgage is in arrears, 
and so Halifax is entitled to take legal action, if it chooses to do so. 
Taking possession is a last resort, but its not unreasonable for Halifax to expect the arrears 
to be repaid, particularly where no payment has been made for several years. Where a 
complaint is brought to us, we can ask a lender to put any legal action on hold, but we arent 
required to do this and we cant order Halifax to stop any court action. 
Im explaining this because I wouldnt want Mr W to be under any misunderstanding that, in 
the event Halifax decides to recommence legal action, any new complaint brought to us by 
Mr W against Halifax would automatically result in us asking Halifax to put a halt on those 
proceedings. I hope this matter doesnt go to court, but if it does reach the stage of legal action, once the 
court issues a date to hear the matter, the more appropriate venue for Mr W to raise any 
further concerns he might have about his mortgage account would be the court, rather than 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. I am aware Mr W believes the bank has breached the 
Mortgage Pre-Action Protocol. In my decision dated 23 September 2021 I explained why the 
Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at his concerns about this. In any event, this would 
be a matter for the court to determine.
I cannot emphasise enough the seriousness of the position in which Mr W is in, with very 
substantial mortgage arrears and no payment having been made for about four years. 
Unless he has a credible strategy for paying off the arrears and which is supported by 
independent evidence, its likely the court will have very limited powers to help Mr W.
Given the situation, it might help Mr W to take advice from one of the free debt advisory 
services such as StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide him with contact 
details for those organisations, if hed like us to. Alternatively, Mr W might find it helpful to 
speak to an independent financial adviser, details of which can be found on the FCAs 
website.
My final decision
I know this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for, but my decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint. I simply leave it to Mr W to decide if he wants to accept the compensation of £300 
offered by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman