DRN-2345843
The complaint
Ms C had a motor insurance policy with Covea Insurance plc in 2018 when her car was 
written-off in an accident. She complains about the poor service she got from it afterwards.
What happened
Although the policy covered her for a new for old replacement car, Ms C said the one she 
got was of a lower specification than her old car. She said the service from Coveas advisors 
was poor, as she was given the wrong information by them and was promised calls that 
werent made. She said no-one took ownership of the claim and there were delays in moving 
it on. She said a male advisor had laughed when she became distressed during a call and a 
female advisor had put the phone down on her. Ms C also said that (after other issues with 
the cars specification were resolved) the new car remained without a spare wheel.
Covea said it had dealt with Ms Cs dissatisfaction by investigating three formal complaints. 
It upheld the first complaint, by accepting that shed been given the wrong details and wasnt 
called back as promised, which had caused delays. It refunded £75 road tax to Ms C due to 
its advisors giving her poor advice about the V5 registration document process. Covea also 
paid her £175 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It didnt uphold her complaint 
about the new cars specification, as it said the problems shed identified were for the 
manufacturer to resolve. And although Covea didnt agree that a male advisor had laughed 
at Ms C, it paid her £50 compensation for the poor handling of a call by a female advisor.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint Ms C made to us. He thought the issues 
shed raised about the car had been resolved, except for the spare wheel. He said Covea 
should arrange for a wheel to be provided to her and it should also pay her a further £150 
compensation. Later on, he noted that the sales invoice for Ms Cs old car didnt show that it 
came with a spare wheel, so he said it wouldnt be fair for Covea to pay for one for the new 
car. Ms C said we should contact the manufacturer for more details of the old car, but the 
investigator thought that was something for Ms C to pursue if she wished to do so.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms C faced poor service from some of Coveas advisors, including poor call-
handling, and that as a result, there was some avoidable delay. But Covea carried out a full 
investigation into these issues and attempted to put matters right. In my opinion, it acted 
reasonably by apologising to Ms C, giving her £75 towards the cost of her road tax and a 
further £225 in total for distress and inconvenience. 
I think a great deal of Ms Cs distress arose from her belief that the replacement car was of a 
lower specification than she was entitled to under the policy. Her old car was a special 
edition model, and she didnt think the new one was the same. But the new vehicle invoice 
from the dealership garage - and the approval form issued by Covea - show that a new 
special edition model of the car was ordered, paid for and delivered.
 
Ms C said the new car didnt have air conditioning (AC), and Coveas engineers considered 
why some of the cars other functions may have appeared not to work. The sales documents 
show that the new car is fitted with AC, and a photo Ms C took of the dashboard and sent to 
the investigator shows that the AC function control button is present. Coveas engineers 
concluded it was likely that the electronic settings for some functions might be different in the 
new car. So Covea said the dealership garage or the manufacturer should address the 
problem. I think that suggestion was reasonable, and it appears to have been successful. 
Ms C was sure her old car had a spare wheel. But the firm that had collected the damaged 
car didnt find one in it when it was asked to check  and the new vehicle invoice for the old 
car didnt show a spare wheel as part of its specification. Regardless of that, in my view, as 
the invoice for the new car showed that a spare wheel was included, it was reasonable for 
Ms C to expect the car to have one. But I dont think its Coveas fault if that didnt happen. It 
paid for the new car with the stated specification, and I dont think it should have to do more 
than that. Ms C may want to discuss the spare wheel with the dealership that provided the 
car and / or the manufacturer.  
I can see why Ms C thinks it would be fair for her to be paid more for distress and 
inconvenience. I think its clear that she had a difficult time after the accident, in which she 
was injured, so dealing with any problems with the car must have been very stressful for her. 
But Covea was only to blame for some of the issues she raised  and I think it dealt with 
those issues reasonably - so I cant uphold Ms Cs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman