DRN-4034311
The complaint
Mr H complains PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) opened and allowed the operation 
of an account into which he says he was tricked into transferring funds. 
Mr H brings his complaint with the help of a representative. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
only to Mr H throughout my decision. And I do this even where it was his representative 
rather than Mr H who said or did something. I intend no discourtesy to Mr H by doing so. 
What happened
The detailed circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not 
repeat them all again here. But I will provide an overview of the relevant events below.
Mr H says he has lost money to what he believes was an investment scam. He says he was 
approached on social media by a person promoting his car wrapping business, who was 
looking for investors. For ease Ill refer to the car wrapping business as W.  After carrying 
out some checks and making enquiries about Ws legitimacy, between December 2020 and 
February 2021 Mr H made four payments totalling £35,000 from his bank account with B to 
Ws account with PrePay. Ws director kept promising the return of the funds Mr H had 
invested, but instead of returning these, the company was dissolved, and the director ceased 
communication.   
    
Mr H complained to PrePay and asked that it refund his loss as he believed it had failed in 
correctly verifying its customer when opening the account, and effectively monitoring the use 
of their account. PrePay didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H referred the matter to our 
service. One of our Investigators looked into things. She concluded that there hadnt been 
any failings by PrePay in the opening or monitoring of the account, so couldnt ask it to do 
anything further. Mr H asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Whilst he appreciated the 
Investigators point of view, he wanted a second opinion as one of the payments sent to the 
recipient account was for a very large sum of £20,000.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate the outcome will be 
disappointing for Mr H, and Im genuinely sorry to hear about his loss, but I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask PrePay to refund this. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that PrePay correctly followed its account opening procedures and carried out 
checks to verify the identity of the named accountholder (in line with its regulatory 
obligations) when opening the recipient account.  
Ive reviewed the account statements since account opening and can see the operation was 
typical of what would be expected of an account of this nature. In my opinion, there was 
nothing obviously erratic nor too concerning about the pattern of incoming payments or 
spending of those funds where Id say PrePay ought to have blocked the account prior to 
Mr Hs funds being spent.  
I note Mr H has specifically raised a point about one of the payments sent to the recipient 
account being a very large sum of £20,000. I assume his inference being that this ought to 
have triggered an intervention. I appreciate the point Mr H is making but just being a large 
payment isnt always on its own enough. I say this because financial businesses like PrePay 
receive millions of payments each day and it would not be realistic or reasonable to expect it 
to stop and check each one. And with money leaving an account, there is a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. With all that in mind, when deciding whether PrePay ought 
to have intervened my consideration needs to take into account factors such as (but not 
limited to): 
- Length of time account has been operating.
- Intended and expected use of the account.
- Previous account activity. 
- Pattern of spending. 
- Previous interventions and accountholder response (if any). 
- Previous notifications of fraud and/or other things which may indicate potential 
misuse of the account (if any).   
Even if, as Mr H suggests, PrePay were to have stopped and questioned the account 
operation when it received the payment of £20,000 (just to be clear not that I think it ought to 
have). In these circumstances, on balance, I dont think this would have resulted in a 
prevention of Mr Hs loss. I say this because at this point the account had been open and 
operating for over six months with no concerns, the account was in receipt of regular large 
incoming credits (although I accept none as large as the £20,000) and the spending was as 
expected for a business account. There was no beneficiary name mismatch on the incoming 
payment or at that point any other indicators that the account was potentially being used 
fraudulently. So I think based on this it would have allowed the account to continue 
operating. And even if they were to have spoken to the accountholder, in these specific 
circumstances, I think its most likely they would have simply explained (and been able to 
evidence) that the payment of £20,000 was a payment from Mr H, who was investing in Ws 
business.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman