DRN-1208250
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2003 in one of the 
banks branches when they were taking out a mortgage. They recall the sale was by post but 
the bank has a record of which branch the sale took place in. I have reviewed it on that 
basis. The plan offered life and critical illness insurance as well as PPI. They selected 
only PPI. The cover was in Mr Ss sole name and gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete 
(as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what we know 
about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they were unaware they had PPI, they didn't know what the prefix 
TMP meant, and they weren't given an option. Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from the 
sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago. Based on what we know about the banks 
sales process at the time, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs S completed a TMPP application 
form selecting which elements of the cover they wanted, after discussion with the bank. I say 
this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it used when selling TMPP at this 
time. I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process 
here. I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs S's comments, but I also have to consider 
how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. 
Overall, I think it's most likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs S had a choice about PPI - 
and they opted to take it out for Mr S. I can understand why they might not remember 
this given the sale was in 2003.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr S to Mr and Mrs S so it had to make sure it 
was suitable. And overall I think the PPI seems to have been right for Mr S based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr S said he was entitled to six months full pay 
and six months' half pay if he was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this for each successful accident and sickness claim for up to 24 months. It also gave him up to 24 
months redundancy cover  again this would have paid out in addition to any work 
redundancy payment.
Overall, given the consequences for Mr and Mrs S of defaulting on debt secured against 
their home, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if Mr S was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know when Halifax first pointed 
out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of those things. So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman