DRN-1169250
The complaint
Miss G and Mr P complain about the sale of a single premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy which they bought in 2001 in connection with a joint personal loan arranged by 
Nationwide Building Society. They complain the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Miss G and Mr P said they did not know PPI had been added to their loan account; they said 
Nationwide should have explained PPI to them and then they would have said no; but 
Nationwide did not verbally explain PPI to them. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. He said that Nationwide had 
made it clear to Miss G and Mr P that the policy was optional which they consented to buy 
and that theyd been given enough clear information to make their own decision about it. 
Miss G and Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be 
looked at again by an ombudsman. They added the following points:
they did not check the papers they signed because they trusted Nationwide;
they did not want the extra cost; 
Mr P is dyslexic so everything should have been verbally explained to him;
Miss G could not explain it to Mr P because she had mental health issues at the time.
 
The policy only covered Mr P, so sometimes I will only mention him; but I will refer to both 
Miss G and Mr P where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out on our website 
about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs and Mr Ps complaint. I know this will disappoint them, so 
Ive set out my reasons below.
I first looked at whether Nationwide made them aware the policy was optional. They 
specifically complain they were not told it had been added to their joint loan account. 
Nationwide said the sale was done by a postal mailing. So the loan and PPI application form 
were sent to them at their home address. I have seen a copy of the loan application which 
Nationwide said would have been used around the time of the sale. It has a section headed 
Protecting your Repayments and below that it says: YES, I would like to take advantage of 
the peace of mind offered by LoanCare Cover I also saw the consumer could have ticked 
the NO option on the same page. So because Miss G and Mr P probably had that choice 
on their application form, I think the policy was probably shown as an optional product. Miss G and Mr P said Mr P is dyslexic and so he may not have understood about PPI 
because it was not verbally explained to him. But that is not surprising because Nationwide 
says this was a postal application  so there were no Nationwide staff involved in the sale 
process to explain PPI to Mr P. Nationwide also said it did not know about his dyslexia at the 
time of the sale - so it would be unreasonable for me to say Nationwide did anything wrong 
in respect of Mr Ps dyslexia if it was not aware of his condition in 2001. I think that as this 
was a postal PPI application, Miss G and Mr P probably had time to consider the loan and 
PPI application to decide if they wanted to add PPI to the loan. 
I also noted they only applied for PPI to cover Mr P, so I think its reasonable to assume they 
probably read the application form, decided they only needed it to cover Mr P and ticked the 
box to consent to have it added to their loan account.
Nationwide told us Miss G and Mr P also received a loan agreement after the sale. The 
agreement referred to Optional Credit Insurance which they both signed. So I also think it 
was made clear to them on that document that PPI was optional and was being added to 
their loan account.
Nationwide and Miss G and Mr P say this sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, 
Nationwide only had to give Miss G and Mr P enough clear information so they could make 
their own decision about it. So I first looked at their circumstances at the time of the sale to 
see what sort of cover they might have needed.
Mr P was eligible for the PPI cover, so he satisfied the criteria to be able to buy it; he told us 
he was only entitled to six weeks full pay from his employer if he was off sick, he had three 
months pay as savings and could rely on his family to help them. So I think they probably 
would have needed cover if Mr P couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
And I think the benefit from the PPI would have given Mr P some income in addition to and 
for longer than his sick pay and savings to make the loan repayments. With regard to help 
from his family, he may not have been able to rely on this help at some unknown point in the 
future. So I still think Miss G and Mr P had some need for the PPI.
I then looked at the information that Nationwide gave to Miss G and Mr P about the PPI to 
see if they could have made an informed decision.
I dont think Mr P was affected by the main things not covered by the policy (the exclusions). 
So even if theyd been given detailed information about the exclusions, I dont think it would 
have changed their decision about buying the policy.
I have seen the loan agreement which did set out the cost of the loan and the cost of the PPI 
policy, together with the total monthly cost they had to pay. So the costs of this PPI were set 
out quite clearly. The loan agreement was signed by Miss G and Mr P  and its reasonable 
to assume they would have checked the loan details before signing as they had time to do 
so. So I think they probably saw the cost of the policy. And I dont think that any more 
detailed information about the cost and benefit would have changed their mind about buying 
it.
In summary, I think Miss G and Mr P were probably aware the policy had been added to 
their loan account. I also think they still would have bought the policy even if theyd been 
given more detailed information. This means that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman