DRN-2965240
The complaint
Mr Y says Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) were unreasonable when rejecting a claim he made to them under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr Y, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr Y made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
the loan
Mr Y says he didnt agree to enter into a loan and could have made the payment in cash. On 
balance I dont think theres enough evidence to support that assertion. I say that because I 
can see the contract was signed electronically by Mr Y and in order to do that BPF have 
explained that Mr Y would have needed to enter a code sent to his phone and pressed 
continue to be able to view and complete the contract approval. I think its therefore likely 
that Mr Y did consider the contract and approve the loan. Whilst I understand that Mr Y says 
he had the money to pay for the work without a loan I think there were reasons why he 
would have wanted one. The loan was being provided interest free and Mr Y would therefore 
be able to spread repayments, hed also benefit from section 75 if there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
was there a breach of contract or misrepresentation?
I think its an implied term of the contract that work will be completed to a satisfactory 
standard and the quality of the kitchen will be satisfactory.
Mr Y says the measurements of the units were wrong and that this led to him having to pay 
extra to get the worktops, he was supplying separately, to fit.
BPFs responsibility is for the part of the kitchen that was supplied and was financed. So, it 
wouldnt be fair to suggest they were responsible in any way for the worktops that were 
being supplied by Mr Y.
I think its fair to expect a consumer to review the contract pictures and plans to ensure they 
are correct before approving the work. As Mr Y was taking responsibility for fitting the 
worktops himself that was even more important. Im not persuaded there is evidence that the 
units were not what was discussed.
Mr Y has explained that hes had to fund the costs of a fitter to remedy faults with the 
kitchen. But I dont think I have enough evidence to suggest what was fitted wasnt what was 
planned and agreed, and I dont think it would therefore be fair to suggest there had been a 
breach of contract on that basis or that BPF should refund the additional fitting costs.
I can see that Mr Y was upset that lights and a socket werent connected but the contract 
explained that these werent the suppliers responsibility. The contract also explained that 
the extractor hood wouldnt be connected so I cant say there was any breach of contract 
there either.
I understand Mr Y is upset about the disruption caused during the kitchen fitting and the 
delays. I would agree with the investigator that a reasonable person would expect a degree 
of disruption when work of this scope was completed and I dont think Ive seen evidence the 
disruption was excessive, or delays were unacceptable. The majority of the work appears to 
have been completed in time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman