DRN-4496287
The complaint
Mr and Ms P complain HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to follow their payment 
instructions in sending payments to Mr Ps ex-fianc, and a retailer, in Russia. Three 
payments were refunded to Mr and Ms P, but a payment made in March 2022 of £500, 
hasnt been refunded.
What happened
For simplicity, and as Mr P has been making submissions about this complaint, I will refer to 
him solely in most of this decision. 
On 17 March 2022, Mr P successfully sent a payment to his fiancs Russian bank account.  
To keep matters simple, Ill refer to this bank as T. On 28 March 2022, Mr P attempted to 
send another payment to his fianc for £500. This payment didnt reach the fiancs account. 
Mr P attempted three more payments to Russian accounts in April 2022  two for his fianc 
and one to a florist. They were returned to Mr Ps account by HSBC. All four payments 
incurred charges.  
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr P complained. HSBC sent Mr P its final response and 
didnt uphold his complaint. The key points HSBC made were: 
- The 6 April 2022 payment for £142 has been held for additional security checks. As 
requested by Mr P, this will be cancelled and returned to his account 
- The 28 March 2022 payment of £500 is being held by the intermediary bank for 
enhanced verification checks. HSBC has requested for this payment to be returned 
to Mr P
- Two payments made on 4 and 20 April 2022 respectively, have both been rejected 
and returned to Mr Ps account.  This was because the beneficiary bank is subject to 
sanctions. Russia is subject to enhanced due diligence
As the £500 had not been refunded, and as the returned payments still incurred charges, 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Ps 
complaint. In summary, they found:
The £500 payment 
- Theyre unable to ask HSBC to do anything further regarding the withheld funds. 
HSBC informed this service the funds have been blocked due to sanctions 
implemented on Russia. HSBC confirmed the funds arent being held by it, but an 
intermediary bank acting on behalf of the beneficiary bank 
- HSBC confirmed the payment was sent to Mr Ps fiancs bank, T, via another 
Russian bank (S) and that was via a US bank who were acting as intermediaries for 
S. Ill refer to the US bank as N going ahead
- Mr P says he was told the £500 payment was being held in a suspense account by 
one of HSBCs employees on a telephone conversation. HSBC has been unable to 
locate any calls, but its provided its internal call notes. The call notes dont indicate 
Mr P was told the funds were being held in a HSBC suspense account
- HSBC say that because of the involvement of the Office of Foreign Assets Control 
(OFAC), it cant take any further action regarding the missing funds. But it did advise 
Mr P he could submit an OFAC licence application for the release of the £500. Based 
on this, Mr P has since submitted his application  
- HSBC hasnt made any error regarding the £500 payment. It was complying with its 
legal and regulatory obligations
- HSBC has confirmed the payment was sent before sanctions were imposed on S  
who were involved in the journey of the payment. Sanctions were implemented 
against S on 30 May 2022, whilst the payment was being sent to Mr Ps fianc. And it 
was frozen by OFAC. HSBC had no control over this 
- Based on the information provided, our Investigator was satisfied HSBC followed 
Mr Ps instructions and recalled the payment and sent multiple chasers to try and 
retrieve it. Its a serious offence to breach sanctions by processing a payment, 
including returning it. HSBC wouldnt be able to accept the funds without the 
appropriate licence and/or consent from OFAC 
- As HSBC hasnt made an error, they wont be asking it to make an award of 
compensation 
Fees incurred 
- HSBC has provided a step-by-step diagram showing a customers journey when 
completing an online instruction to send an international payment. This shows theres 
a drop-down option which allows a customer to choose whether to pay the £5 fee, or 
whether the beneficiary pays it
- These charges were applied in line with HSBCs terms and conditions. Mr P wouldve 
known there was a risk in sending payments to Russia given the conflict that had 
arisen
- HSBC doesnt have control over the payments being rejected and reverted, so it 
wouldnt be reasonable to hold HSBC liable for any financial loss Mr P incurred 
through the fees that were charged 
- But HSBC has agreed to refund all charges applied on payments that werent 
successful  totalling £15. This is a reasonable outcome given the unfortunate 
circumstances Mr P has found himself in 
Mr P didnt agree with what our Investigator said. Id like to assure Mr P that Ive carefully 
reviewed everything hes said  even if I dont explicitly set all his points out here. Some of 
the key points he makes are: 
- The intermediary, S, were sanctioned in May 2022 - this is after the date of the 
transaction in March 2022 - HSBC is more than capable of executing the transaction without the need of 
intermediaries. And if it had to use one, it shouldve found one that wasnt sanctioned 
- HSBC holds vicarious liability for all its employees and its subcontractors which 
includes intermediaries
- HSBC guarantee a transaction, so it should either perform it or refund it. Liability sits 
with those with whom an agreement exists. HSBC has failed to use an intermediary 
that will do as its asked and has therefore failed its due diligence. Mr P cannot be 
held liable for that, but HSBC should     
- HSBC should refund Mr P the money after which it can take action to receive the 
funds for itself 
In response to Mr Ps point about the payment being sent before sanctions were 
implemented against S, our Investigator said: 
- The Russia and Ukraine conflict was a well-known issue at the time, so most banks 
and financial institutions were already putting measures in place. If its part of a 
banks business model to take steps as soon as there is mention of a forthcoming 
emergency, then we would consider it was acting reasonably in taking proactive 
steps to protect itself 
- As neither HSBC nor its intermediary are holding the funds, they cannot be held 
liable for who the beneficiary bank chooses to use as its intermediary
Mr P didnt agree. In short, he says its black or white as to when sanctions apply. And that 
HSBC is responsible for the funds and the entire route it chose to send them through. 
As Mr and Ms P didnt agree, their complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know Mr and Ms P feel strongly 
about their complaint, and I dont undervalue how challenging the circumstances theyve 
found themselves in has impacted them. So, Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr P and HSBC have said 
before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on HSBCs actions 
regarding Mr Ps payment instructions and the fees it charged him.
The £500 payment
HSBC has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when processing payment instructions for its customers, which includes ensuring no UK or other international sanctions 
might be breached. Those obligations are overriding in terms of otherwise meeting general 
timeframes for processing payments. And this is the same for every bank. This does mean 
that sometimes payment instructions are justifiably declined or withheld. 
The crux of this complaint relates to whether HSBC are responsible for the payment being 
withheld in the way it has. HSBC say it sent Mr Ps £500 payment to its US entity  HSBC 
America. And from there it was sent to Mr Ps fiancs account  the beneficiary account. 
The fiancs bank, T, use bank S to receive the payment. But before its sent to S, it must go 
through bank N. Bank N are a US bank. Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that 
this process of sending funds are Ts arrangements. So, it follows that Im satisfied HSBC 
did what they were expected to do in sending the payment. 
Mr P argues that bank S was only sanctioned in May 2022, well after he had sent the 
payment in March 2022. Because of this he questions why its been withheld in the way it 
has. Mr P is aware that the sanctions that were applied related to a US jurisdiction, and 
because of this he has applied for a licence from OFAC. 
OFAC is department of the US Treasury. On its website it says it administers and enforces 
economic and trade sanctions based on US foreign policy and national security goals 
against targeted foreign countries and regimes..
Bank T used the Russian bank S, and then N  a US bank  as part of its banking 
arrangements to receive a payment from HSBC. According to OFAC and the US Treasurys 
website its sanctions against bank S went live on 26 March 2022. Thats a couple of days 
before Mr P sent the payment. Because of this I can see why Mr Ps payment was withheld 
by the intermediary bank T were using to receive the payment. 
Mr P says HSBC should be liable for using the intermediaries it did. But I dont agree with 
this. HSBC sent the payment to T. And Im satisfied the issue is with the network of banks T 
employed to receive the payment. International sanctions are often complex. And 
international payments can often involve a handful of financial institutions - as is the case 
here. HSBC told Mr P he could apply for a licence from OFAC to help get his payment 
returned. I dont think it could have done anymore. 
I would of course expect HSBC to do what it can to help Mr P retrieve his funds. From the 
technical information its sent from its internal international payment and messaging system, 
Im satisfied HSBC asked for the return of the payment - and chased this up regularly. So I 
dont think its failed or made any error here.  
Mr P may argue that HSBC shouldnt have sent the payment to its US entity thereby 
avoiding any US sanctions. But HSBC has its own processes for sending payments 
internationally, and I havent seen anything to show that it hasnt done what it would 
ordinarily do here.
Mr P says he was told by one of HSBCs employees on a telephone call that it was holding 
the £500 payment in one of its suspense accounts. Unfortunately HSBC dont have the call 
recording. But it has given me its internal notes. Having carefully reviewed these, I cant see 
Mr P was told this. Its possible Mr P was told this, but based on the limited information I 
have, I cant make a finding on this point.   
The other returned payments 
Mr Ps subsequent payments were made in April 2022 and were returned to his account. At the time of the payment instructions there was significant activity relating to Russian 
sanctions being imposed. And not just in the UK, but on an international level. At the time, 
these sanctions were changing daily, and at times, on an hourly basis. 
If HSBC failed to implement sanctions it couldve faced serious repercussions. So I can see 
why HSBC may have taken proactive steps to not send payments to a Russian bank. It 
would also have been informed by what happened with Mr Ps March payment being 
withheld in the way it was. And that it would be likely the same thing could happen again with 
a similar payment instruction.   
So, taking this all into account, Im satisfied by taking the approach it did, HSBC acted 
reasonably in the circumstances. I also note the beneficiary bank in Russia for Mr Ps fianc 
has been subject to previous sanctions being imposed against it by the UK government. So I 
think its likely to have made the situation even more complex.
Overall, given I dont think HSBC has done anything improper in relation to all four payment 
instructions, I see no basis to award compensation for any distress and inconvenience this 
may have caused Mr and Ms P.  
Fees charged 
HSBC charged Mr P a £5 fee on each of the payments in line with its terms and processes. 
Mr P wouldve agreed to these when completing the online process to initiate the payments. 
HSBC say it is within its rights to charge these fees especially as Mr P agreed to them. But it 
would be happy to refund the fees for the three payments that were returned to Mr P. I dont 
think HSBC need to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman