DRN-2198019
The complaint
Miss B complains that in 2019 she was given unsuitable mortgage advice by HBFS Equity 
Release Limited in relation to lifetime mortgages.
What happened
On 5 October 2020 I issued a final decision on Miss Bs complaint against HBFS in relation 
to delays in progressing her application for equity release borrowing. I have taken the 
background events from that decision, as this complaint arises out of those same events.
In January 2019 Miss B already had an equity release mortgage with a lender I will call A 
which shed taken out in October 2014 when she had just turned 55 (the minimum age for an 
equity release loan). Miss B had initially borrowed £55,000 but on 29 November 2016 Miss B 
had borrowed an additional £10,338 from A. Miss B wanted to borrow some more money 
from A to refurbish her kitchen and keep some over in savings, so she contacted HBFS to 
discuss her requirements.
A said that its current desktop valuation of Miss Bs property was £300,000, which meant 
that it would only lend her £75,000. This would not be enough to repay her existing 
borrowing.  Miss B told HBFS that a local estate agent had recently valued her property at 
£375,000 and so she was unhappy about As decision.
HBFS discussed with A whether it would be possible to re-finance the loan with A onto 
another one of its products in order to release further funds, but A said this wasnt possible. 
In order to borrow more from A, Miss B would need to repay her existing mortgage to A and 
take out a new one with it, incurring an early redemption charge (ERC). 
A redemption statement was obtained from A, which showed that the original loan and 
interest across both loans totalled about £85,000, but there was also an ERC of just under 
£14,400, giving a total redemption figure of around £100,000.
Another lender was sourced by HBFS, which I will call M2L. A valuation was carried out on 
11 February 2019 which came back at £375,000. M2L was prepared to lend £105,000, but 
after taking off the ERC (which by this time was about £15,000), this would leave Miss B with 
only around £5,000.
The M2L mortgage had an ERC in the first five years of 6% of the amount outstanding. For 
the following five years, an ERC was based on whether or not the Gilt rate had risen or 
fallen. After ten years there was no ERC.
On the other hand, As mortgage had an ERC for the duration of the term, the amount 
repayable being linked to Gilt yields. There might be a substantial ERC, or none at all, 
depending on whether or not Gilt yields had risen or fallen.
HBFS advised Miss B that it would not be financially sensible to proceed with M2L, given the 
costs of remortgaging and the amount Miss B would receive, and Miss B agreed. Instead, 
HBFS advised Miss B to stay with A and make a fresh application for a further advance. A 
provided a Key Facts Illustration (KFI) to show that it would lend an additional £9,700, based 
on an increased valuation of the property. The further advance was completed on 24 July 
2019.
Miss B now says that the advice to take out the further advance was unsuitable and 
complained about it to HBFS. The crux of Miss Bs complaint is that the ERC on the M2L 
mortgage was less onerous than the mortgage with A and that As interest rates were higher. 
HBFS didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that the advice to stay with A was suitable.
Miss B escalated her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and an investigator 
looked at it. She didnt think HBFSs advice was unsuitable. She noted that by staying with A 
Miss B had avoided an ERC of about £15,000; if Miss B had re-mortgaged to M2L and then 
sold within the next five years, shed have had two ERCs to pay. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators findings. She said that at no point had HBFS ever 
referred to her moving or selling her property. But Miss B explained that shed been 
considering moving for a long time and before 2014 the property had been marketed twice 
for more than four years. Although she wanted to sell, this wasnt a firm plan. 
Miss B accepted that in January 2019 she mentioned to HBFS that if she sold the property 
she could as a temporary measure move into a friends rental property whilst she looked for 
a smaller property to buy, possibly overseas. Miss B also said that it wasnt until September 
2020 that she first became aware that a lifetime mortgage could be transferred onto another 
property. Miss B said that at the point when she spoke briefly about moving in January 2019, 
that was when HBFS should have told her that the mortgage was transferable.
The investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so Miss B asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint centres on whether the advice that Miss B should stay with A rather than 
move her mortgage to M2L in early 2019 was suitable advice. Miss B argues that HBFS was 
required to look at current and future implications of the advice it was giving. Because of this, 
Miss B says that moving her mortgage to M2L would have been more suitable for her in the 
long term, even though, short term, shed have incurred an ERC and wouldnt have been 
able to borrow as much as shed wanted to by way of surplus funds.
First, I note Miss B disputes that she was ever told that either her mortgage with A or the 
proposed mortgage with M2L could be transferred onto new properties. I can see that this 
information is set out clearly in section 7.2 of the KFIs provided by A in both March and May 
2019 in relation to the further advance. On the KFI from M2L, it is referred to in sections 3,7 
and 13. I think it is unlikely that HBFS didnt draw this to Miss Bs attention when going 
through the KFIs.
In any event, transferring a mortgage (either in whole or in part) is a standard term for most 
equity release lenders This should have formed part of the original advice in 2014 given to 
Miss B by her (then) IFA and her solicitors when she first took out the mortgage with A.Miss B now says that the M2L mortgage was a better option for her over the long term, 
because by 2030 shed no longer have any ERC to pay, whereas the ERC with A was for the 
lifetime of the mortgage. Miss B also says M2Ls interest rate was lower.
But Miss B also accepts that she told HBFS that she planned on selling and moving into 
rented accommodation whilst she looked for a new property, either in the UK or abroad, 
although there was no immediate timescale for this. Miss B had told her previous adviser in 
2014 she intended to do this, so I think it was something Miss B had in mind.
In the circumstances, if Miss B had taken out the mortgage with M2L, paying the £14,000 
ERC to A, and then decided to sell her property and move into rented accommodation within 
the first five years of the mortgage, shed have had to pay the full ERC to M2L. If Miss Bs 
plans had come to fruition in years 6-10, and if Gilt yields had fallen, Miss B would also have 
had to pay the full ERC. 
The same situation applies in relation to the mortgage with A, if Miss B was to sell and move 
into temporary rented accommodation whilst looking for a new property. This is because 
equity release lenders require sale and purchase to be simultaneous where a mortgage is 
being ported. A move into rented accommodation whilst looking for a new property would 
mean the existing mortgage being repaid in full and, if a new property was found that met 
lending criteria, a new mortgage being taken out.
Given this, and accepting what Miss B has told us  which is that she discussed these plans 
with HBFS  I dont think that staying with A was unsuitable for Miss Bs circumstances. 
Staying with A avoids Miss B having to pay another ERC if her plans to sell her property 
come to fruition.
I also note that Miss B specifically approached HBFS because she wanted to raise additional 
funds to carry out renovations to the property, including fitting a new kitchen, rewiring and 
roof repairs. After comparing the overall cost of doing so, including the ERC payable to A 
and the amount Miss B would have been left with after this, HBFS didnt think the cost 
outweighed the benefit to Miss B. Ive looked at the figures and I agree. Taking out the 
mortgage with M2L would have increased Miss Bs debt by almost £23,000 (including 
payment of the ERC and legal fees), leaving her with only £5,000. 
I appreciate the M2L mortgage was at a lower interest rate than the mortgage and further 
advances with A. I also note that M2L had a fixed ERC for the first five years, and a potential 
ERC for years 6-10. As mortgage had a potential ERC for the duration of the term. So 
although it might have been a better option for Miss B to take out the M2L mortgage given 
the potential ERC from year 6 onwards, that was dependant on future events (Gilt yields) 
that could not be predicted.
But it seems to me that the main driver for Miss B approaching HBFS in 2019 was her need 
to borrow as much as she was able to release in order to carry out the work she needed to 
do to the property. It is apparent to me that the M2L mortgage was unsuitable for this 
purpose, as it didnt allow Miss B to release sufficient funds, taking into account the ERC 
payable to A. Im also satisfied from what Miss B said at the time that she did not want to 
proceed with M2L if she was only going to be left with about £5,000 from the remortgage.
 
In the circumstances, looking at everything that happened at the time, without the benefit of 
hindsight, I think that if HBFS had advised Miss B that the M2L mortgage was a better option for her, Miss B would have gone ahead with another further advance from A in any event, 
because this allowed her to borrow the additional funds she needed. And I think that if 
Miss B had taken out the M2L mortgage, shed have been unhappy that shed paid a 
£15,000 ERC, increased her debt by £23,000 and yet only raised £5,000.
So in all the circumstances, I dont think the advice given by HBFS was unsuitable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman