DRN-2745362
The complaint
Mr P complains that he experienced issues with a car he acquired using finance provided by 
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd and that the issues were ongoing after repairs. He also 
complains that he was mis-sold the finance agreement. 
 
What happened
Mr P entered into an agreement with FCA Automotive Services to acquire a used car. He 
experienced issues with the car, and it was returned to the dealer. However, following this 
the issues remained but by this time his three month warranty had expired, and the dealer 
wasnt taking his calls. Mr P says he contacted FCA Automotive Services not to make a 
complaint but to see if it had contact details for the dealer. He was asked why he wanted the 
details and he explained the issues with the car at which point he was offered £300 refund 
on his agreement or towards repairs. Mr P says he thought FCA Automotive Services were 
trying to help and accepted the £300 but after the repair attempt he realised there was a 
more serious issue with the car.
Mr P says that although FCA Automotive Services said it had issued a final response to his 
complaint this wasnt the case as he had not made a complaint and so the issue of the 
quality of his car still needed to be investigated.
Mr P says he then realised that he wasnt provided with the finance he had thought. He said 
he believed the car was acquired through a personal contract purchase (PCP) but 
discovered he had been provided with a loan. He says the agreement was mis-sold.
FCA Automotive Services says that Mr P entered into a Motor Loan in January 2017 and 
that it had no financial interest in the car he acquired. It says Mr P didnt make contact until 
August 2018 and this was regarding arrears on his account. It says in October 2019, Mr P 
contacted it about issues he was experiencing with the car which he said had been present 
from the point of sale. A complaint was raised, and a final response issued in October 2019 
offering a gesture of goodwill in full and final settlement of his complaint. It says Mr P 
accepted this and didnt refer his complaint to this service until more than six months after 
the final response was issued.
FCA Automotive Services says Mr P contacted it in January 2021 and raised a complaint 
that the loan had been mis-sold. It issued a final response dated 3 February 2021 providing 
Mr P with a copy of the signed loan agreement. FCA Automotive Services has explained that 
the dealer is no longer trading, and so further information from the point of sale wasnt 
available. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted Mr Ps comments about not raising a 
complaint about the quality of the car but said that FCA Automotive Services had issued a 
final response in which it referred to the complaint and then in subsequent emails it had also 
referred to the complaint raised and the proposed settlement. Mr P had then responded 
saying he accepted the settlement to the complaint. She said had Mr P been concerned that 
he hadnt raised a complaint it would have been reasonable for him to raise it at that time. 
Regarding the mis-sale of the agreement, our investigator noted Mr P had signed the 
agreement and said that had he not received a copy it would have been reasonable to ask 
for this at the time. She didnt think she had evidence to show the agreement had been 
misrepresented.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated he hadnt made a complaint about 
the quality of the car to FCA Automotive Services and said he only received a copy of the 
loan agreement many months after it had been set up. He explained his health issues at the 
time the issues were ongoing and said until that time he had believed he had a PCP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has explained that when he contacted FCA Automotive Services in October 2019 it 
was to ask for contact details for the dealer. While I dont dispute this, it appears that a 
conversation then took place regarding the issues he had experienced with the car. While I 
note Mr Ps comments about not raising a complaint at that time, I do not think that FCA 
Automotive Services acted unreasonably by raising a complaint which it then provided a 
response for. Mr P was sent the final response letter in which an offer was made, and it was 
set out the referral time frame if he wasnt happy with the response. There was then email 
correspondence between Mr P and FCA Automotive Services in which the goodwill offer of 
£300 was confirmed and Mr P confirmed his acceptance as final settlement to this complaint. 
Mr P has explained his mental health issues at the time, and I sympathise with his situation. 
However, I find on balance that I wouldnt have expected him to write an email saying he 
accepted £300 towards repairs as a final resolution to his complaint had he not accepted 
that the issues he had discussed had been noted as a complaint.
Mr P didnt refer the issues covered in the October 2019 final response letter to this service 
within six months and so I havent considered these further.
Mr P says that he believed he had acquired the car through a PCP. When acquiring a car 
there are often different finance options available. Unfortunately, as the dealer is no longer 
trading I havent any further details regarding the sales process although I note the 
comments Mr P has made. Having looked at the agreement, it clearly states it is a fixed sum 
loan agreement. Mr P has signed this and didnt raise any concerns with FCA Automotive 
Services at the time of the agreement. In October 2019, it was also made clear the type of 
agreement Mr P had and that FCA Automotive Services didnt have any interest in his car 
and I cant see that Mr P raised any concerns about this at the time.
The loan agreement set out the term and payments required and based on what I have seen 
it provided the information Mr P needed to decide whether or not to enter the agreement. 
Therefore, while I note Mr Ps comments I do not find I have enough to say the agreement 
was misrepresented to him.
Based on the above, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against FCA Automotive Services UK 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman