DRN-3584706
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his insurance broker, Brightside Insurance Services Limited as 
he thinks it mis-sold him a policy for his motorbike on the basis it could be amended at any 
time of the day, which wasnt true and which, when an amendment couldnt be made, 
caused his insurer to decline a claim.
What happened
Mr M arranged a policy via Brightside. Brightsides paperwork explained that via its portal, 
Mr M could manage his cover and make amendments 24/7.
In the early hours of the morning on 26 August 2021, Mr M became aware that his 
motorbike, parked on the drive that night, was being interfered with. He tried to change his 
policy via the portal to reflect the vehicle was being kept on the drive  instead of in the 
garage as the policy required. The portal told him to call Brightside. Mr M wasnt sure if this 
meant the change had been made and accepted or not. Mr M's motorbike was stolen 
thereafter. When he made a claim to his insurer, the insurer declined the claim because the 
motorbike wasnt kept in the garage.
Mr M complained to us. Initially about the insurers decision. But when that complaint was 
not upheld, Mr M explained that he felt Brightside was responsible for his loss. He said the 
policy had been mis-sold because it hadnt been possible for him to manage this policy 
amendment on the portal. He also said that the portal detail hadnt been clear such that he 
didnt know until later that the change hadnt gone through, which prevented him from taking 
other action to secure his motor bike.
Our Investigator felt that the policy had not been mis-sold  that just because it couldnt be 
used for this change, didnt mean the policy couldnt generally be managed online. He felt 
Mr M hadnt received anything which could reasonably have made him think the policy had 
been changed. And he noted that, regardless, Mr M only tried to make the change once the 
bike was already being interfered with. So he didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr M said he disagreed. He noted that for this change the policy was not manageable via 
the portal, and said that it wasnt clear what might constitute manageability e.g. how many 
and what type of changes it would need to be possible to make to reasonably describe a 
policy as manageable via the portal. His complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M is in a difficult position having first lost his bike and then not having 
been able to benefit from his insurance policy. However, I dont think I can reasonably blame 
Brightside for the position Mr M has found himself in.
At this service we look at each case on its own merits. So I dont need to think, 
hypothetically, about what other changes might have been possible, or would need to have 
been possible via the portal. Here Mr M only looked to make one change, and it was this one 
change that wasnt possible. 
I dont think that this one change not being possible means Mr M couldnt have carried out 
the general day-to-day management of his policy via the portal. In this instance the portal 
couldnt be used to make the change Mr M wanted to apply, but one failure in this respect 
does not, for me, mean the system must be seen as inherently flawed  such that using the 
promise of that service to sell the policy means the policy must have been mis-sold. I think 
that would be an unfair conclusion.
In saying that I bear in mind that the policy, when sold, did suit Mr Ms needs. And he had 
the benefit of cover for several months without concern. It was only after something changed 
with how Mr M needed to store the motorbike that the issue with the portal and cover arose. 
Importantly though, Ive seen no sign that when Mr M realised he had to keep the motorbike 
on the drive, in breach of his policy terms, that he sought to amend his policy then. Rather, 
Brightsides records show that the first time Mr M tried to access the portal was when his 
bike was already being attacked. And that means that its most likely that even if a change 
had been processed at that time, the insurer would have declined the claim. 
As it was, that type of change was just not something the insurer was prepared to accept. 
Which is something Brightside didnt and couldnt control. And it couldnt allow changes to be 
made to cover that was outside of what the insurer was prepared to offer cover for. So I think 
its understandable that Brightsides 24/7 portal couldnt assist Mr M in this instance.
Mr M has reported that the portal wasnt clear whether the change had been made or not. 
He said that the portal only told him to call Brightside  which made him think there was a 
technical error. But I think Mr M would or should reasonably have known that if a change had 
not been confirmed it had not happened. Especially if he was also of the mind that a 
technical error may have occurred. I can understand that it was frustrating from Mr M to 
come up against this problem whilst in the middle of the clearly stressful situation of having 
his bike stolen. But Im not persuaded that Brightside failed Mr M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman