DRN-4307750
The complaint
N complains about mistakes and poor service from Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard 
after its director set up a payment plan for a credit card. 
What happened
N is a limited company that holds a Barclaycard. In February 2021 Ns director, Mr G, agreed 
a payment plan for its credit card. Mr G agreed to make payments of £26 a month and 
interest was suspended. The plan came to an end in December 2021. 
Mr G has explained he contacted Barclaycard in January 2022 to discuss extending the 
plan. Mr G says that despite agreeing a plan, in the months that followed Ns credit card was 
charged interest by Barclaycard and he had to contact it on numerous occasions. Mr G and 
Barclaycard agreed a payment plan for 12 months in July 2022. Barclaycard also took the 
step of refunding interest to Ns credit card. But when Barclaycard set up the new payment 
plan it failed to amend the direct debit instruction and the first payment taken was £120 
instead of £55. 
Mr G raised a complaint on Ns behalf and Barclaycard issued a final response on 30 August 
2023. Barclaycard apologised for the service provided and confirmed interest of £154.34 and 
£75.25 plus a £12 fee had been refunded. Barclaycard added that it only offers temporary 
payment plans for fixed terms and that they have to be reviewed when expired. Barclaycard 
explained there was no option to have a plan in place until the balance is repaid in full. 
Barclaycard paid Ns credit card £500 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ns complaint. They agreed that the service provided 
was poor at times but thought Barclaycards offer of £500 was a fair way to resolve Ns 
complaint. Mr G asked to appeal Ns case and said various people at Barclaycard had made 
mistakes and provided incorrect information. Mr G added that he had spent six months 
calling Barclaycard and was provided with misleading information about the nature of Ns 
payment plan. Mr G raised concerns that Ns credit card payment record mayve impacted 
his credit history. And Mr G said the compensation wasnt paid to N but was used to reduce 
the credit card balance. 
As Mr G asked to appeal Ns case, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr G is frustrated by the way his credit card was handled by 
Barclaycard. Its clear that Mr G was given confusing information that changed with the 
different people he spoke to over a period of several months. Ive looked at the contact 
notes, paying particular attention to the period between January 2022 and July 2022. Its 
clear Mr G called on various occasions, gave information about Ns circumstances and 
discussed a number of plans. Instead of requiring Mr G to continue calling Barclaycard on 
Ns behalf, I think it shouldve ensured the relevant payment plan was put in place at an 
earlier stage. I agree the way Barclaycard handled Ns account was below the level of 
service it shouldve provided. Ive taken this on board when considering how to fairly resolve 
Ns complaint. 
Barclaycard has made the point that it doesnt offer permanent payment plans that remain in 
place until the account is repaid. Barclaycard confirms it only offers temporary fixed term 
payment plans. When a payment plan reaches the end of its term, Barclaycard says it will 
then review Ns circumstances by asking questions and completing an income and 
expenditure assessment. Once Barclaycard is in possession of the relevant information, it 
will then agree a plan that is sustainable for N. I appreciate that goes against what Mr Gs 
told us he was advised by agents at Barclaycard. But the approach is very much in line with 
the relevant regulations and what wed expect to see from a lender. I appreciate Barclaycard 
may have provided misleading information on this point, but Im satisfied it has confirmed the 
correct approach and that Mr G was likely given the wrong information. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but we wouldnt expect a business to be bound by a genuine 
error. And, as Ive said above, Im satisfied Barclaycard has confirmed the correct position in 
that it only agrees fixed term temporary payment plans. That means Mr G will need to work 
with Barclaycard going forward to ensure affordable payment plans are put in place for Ns 
credit card. 
I can see that Mr G did have to spend a significant amount of time discussing the credit card 
with Barclaycard. And its clear the situation went on for several months. Barclays paid N 
£500 for the inconvenience caused. In response to the investigator, Mr Gs told us about 
how stressful he found the situation. But in this case, Mr Gs role is that of director and 
representative of N. N is a limited company and is the complainant here. Whilst I dont doubt 
how Mr G was impacted, I can only award compensation to the complainant. So whilst I 
understand Mr G suffered distress and inconvenience, our rules dont allow me to award him 
compensation in his own right. 
In much the same way, Mr Gs raised concerns about whether Ns credit card has impacted 
his personal credit file. But in this decision I can only look at how the issues raised have 
impacted N. If Mr G finds missed payments or other information on his credit file reported by 
Barclaycard that he feels is wrong, he has the right to raise concerns in his own right. I leave 
it to Mr G to decide how to proceed. 
Ive considered everything that Mr G has told us about how the issues affected N. Whilst I 
can see Mr G spent a significant amount of time dealing with this matter, Im satisfied the 
£500 settlement Barclaycard paid fairly reflects the impact to N and inconvenience caused. 
As Im satisfied Barclaycard has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
In response to the investigator, Mr G said Barclaycard had used the £500 compensation 
paid to reduce Ns credit card balance. But compensation of that nature should be offered 
directly to the complainant rather than being used to reduce borrowing. So, if Mr G wants the £500 payment to be transferred to Ns business account, Id expect Barclaycard to proceed 
on that basis. 
As Im satisfied Barclaycard has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclaycard has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman