DRN-1312702
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D & G) declining a claim she 
made under her insurance policy for a stolen mobile phone. 
Mrs K has been helped by her partner in raising this complaint but, for ease of reference, Ill 
only refer to Mrs K.
What happened
Mrs K bought a mobile phone from a retailer and took out a monthly care policy at the same 
time to insure it. The phone was stolen in January 2019 and so Mrs K contacted D & G (the 
insurer) to make a claim under the policy. D & G informed 
Mrs K that she had to contact the network provider to block the International Mobile 
Equipment Identity (IMEI) number for the mobile phone to be able to make a claim. 
Mrs K told D & G that the network provider was unable to block the IMEI number for the 
mobile phone. D & G said they couldn't proceed with the claim unless this happened. 
A complaint was raised about the declined claim but D & Gs position didn't change. They 
reiterated that the IMEI number for the mobile phone had to be blocked for a claim to 
proceed  and that this was set out in the terms and conditions of the policy. They said they 
wouldn't correspond about this matter any further until the IMEI number had been blocked. 
The policy was cancelled with premiums refunded to Mrs K back to the point the claims 
process was started in January 2019.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator initially thought D & Gs position 
was fair as, after clarifying the situation with the network provider, she found that the IMEI 
number for the mobile phone could be blocked. She explained the IMEI would need to be 
registered to the account with the network provider and that she may need to provide proof 
of purchase/ownership. She added however that if the network provider subsequently tells 
Mrs K they cant block the IMEI number then she should obtain documentary confirmation of 
this for us to consider the matter further.
Mrs K got in touch with the network provider but they wouldnt block the IMEI number for the 
mobile phone as the receipt didnt have the IMEI number on it. Mrs K then referred the 
matter to the relevant ombudsman service for network providers but they didnt make any 
remedy or award.
Mrs K got back in touch with us to explain the current position. Our investigator took in to 
account what had since happened and changed her view on the matter. She thought Mrs K 
had taken reasonable steps to get the IMEI blocked by going through the complaints process 
with the network provider and then referring the matter to the relevant ombudsman service. 
And so, as the requirement for the IMEI to be blocked isnt part of the terms and conditions 
of the policy (even though D& G had claimed it was), she didnt think it was fair for the claim to be declined on this basis. She recommended D & G reconsider the claim subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy  and that, if the claim is successful, then any applicable 
excess or premiums owed should be deducted from the amount paid to Mrs K.
D & G disagreed with our investigator and so the matter has been referred to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions dont include a requirement for the policyholder to block the 
mobile phones IMEI number to be able to make a claim for theft. D & G has however 
explained that it is required as part of their claims process which is considered good industry 
practice as it ensures the device is disabled and thereby prevents fraud.
Ive carefully considered this and I understand why D & G, along with other insurers, would 
want the IMEI number for a mobile phone to be blocked before accepting a theft claim. But 
while I think this exclusion ought to be included as part of the terms and conditions, I dont 
consider it to be an unreasonable request. That said, when looking at Mrs Ks 
circumstances, I dont think it would fair for D & G to decline her claim on this basis. Ill 
explain why.
I can see Mrs K has made significant efforts to try and block the mobile phones IMEI 
number. She contacted the network provider on numerous occasions and even escalated 
the matter to the relevant ombudsman service. But it seems the network provider wont block 
the mobile phones IMEI number because they wont accept the receipt as proof of purchase 
as it doesnt have the IMEI number on it.
The receipt Mrs K has provided confirms the model of the mobile phone, that it was 
purchased with a monthly care policy and the date of the transaction. These details 
correspond with D & Gs records and there doesnt appear to be any dispute as to whether 
Mrs K bought the mobile phone. But rather, D & G doesnt think it would be fair to settle the 
claim if there is a possibility the mobile phone could still be in use.
As Ive said, I think its understandable why D & G want the IMEI number on the mobile 
phone to be blocked. But I dont think it would be fair to penalise Mrs K for this not 
happening given, from what Ive seen, that shes taken reasonable steps to try do so. And I 
dont think she can be held responsible for the IMEI number not being on the receipt as this 
isnt something that was in her control. 
D & G has also mentioned that Mrs K has successfully claimed for a stolen mobile phone on 
a previous occasion. And so she is aware of their claims process and what is required when 
this happens. While that might be true, Im only considering what has happened in relation to 
this claim and for the reasons Ive explained I dont think it was fair for the claim to be 
declined because the IMEI number on the mobile phone hasnt been blocked. I therefore 
consider Mrs Ks claim should be reconsidered subject to remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
Im aware the policy was cancelled after D & G were notified of the theft claim with premiums 
returned to Mrs K. If the claim should subsequently be successful, then I think its fair for D & 
G to deduct any premiums owed along with the applicable policy excess as part of the 
settlement.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to reconsider Mrs Ks claim subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the insurance policy. If the claim is successful, they can 
deduct the policy excess, or any premiums owed, from the amount paid to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman