DRN-3326155
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mishandled his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr B purchased a chair via the internet. The chair cost £105.99 and he paid for 
it via his credit card with Barclays. He says when the chair was delivered it didnt come with 
an invoice or a receipt. 
Around one month after the chair arrived, Mr B says one of the arms broke. He tried to find 
any invoice or receipt that had been sent to him via email but was unsuccessful. Mr B says 
all he could find was details of the transaction on his credit card statement.
In August 2020 Mr B made a claim to Barclays for a refund for the chair. In the claim form Mr 
B said he didnt have an invoice or receipt for the item.
In December 2020 Barclays informed Mr B that he had supplied insufficient evidence to 
support his claim. It said if he was able to provide further evidence then it would be happy to 
review that.
Mr B complained to Barclays that he didnt know what documentation he could supply as 
nothing had been provided to him. During a phone call between Mr B and Barclays in 
February 2021, Mr B was advised that as this transaction appeared to have been via an 
online payments system that he should contact the company that runs that system to see if it 
could assist him.
In March 2021 Barclays sent Mr B its final response letter about his complaint. It said it 
wasnt upholding his complaint as it was satisfied it handled his claim correctly. Barclays said 
that to make a claim either under the chargeback scheme or section 75 then proof of 
purchase was required and Mr B had been unable to provide this evidence. Mr B disagreed 
with Barclays decision.
Barclays reviewed its decision not to uphold Mr Bs complaint but said as there was no new 
evidence about the transaction it wasnt altering its view.
Mr B was unhappy at Barclays view and complained to this service. He said as he had 
always told Barclays he didnt have a receipt or sales invoice then it should have told him 
from the start of his claim that he wouldnt be successful. He said hed missed the six-month 
window in which he could make a claim to the online payments company due to the delay in 
Barclays telling him he needed more evidence. Mr B said Barclays hadnt acted fairly in 
dealing with his claim and it should reimburse him the cost of the chair and any interest 
charged on his credit card for this item. He also said that as hed had to make numerous 
calls to Barclays that werent answered, and it had delayed in responding to him, it would be 
fair for him to receive compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays 
had raised first a chargeback and then a claim under section 75 for Mr B, but as there hadnt 
been proof about what Mr B had bought these claims had been declined. Our investigator 
said that although there was an entry for the transaction on Mr Bs credit card statement, this 
hadnt specified what had been purchased so wasnt sufficient.
Our investigator said that although he appreciated Mr Bs view that it had taken a long time 
to resolve, he thought Barclays had kept Mr B informed on its progress and had apologised 
for delays. Our investigator said he didnt think Barclays had treated Mr B unfairly or failed to 
investigate his claim.
In respect of the customer service, our investigator said that this wasnt something this 
service could comment on as it hadnt resulted in any financial loss to Mr B. Barclays hadnt 
been able to reimburse Mr B for the chair due to the lack of required evidence and it had 
given him the correct answer about that. He said Barclays had needed to investigate Mr Bs 
claim and he wouldnt have expected it to tell Mr B at the start that it couldnt assist before it 
had done so first.
Mr B disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he had always been clear he didnt 
have any evidence about the purchase of the chair and Barclays should have told him from 
day one what course of action he needed to follow.  He said Barclays had failed in its duty of 
care to him as a consumer.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr B contacted Barclays about the chair in August 2020. Its not disputed that 
in his claim form Mr B said that he didnt have any proof of purchase save the entry on his 
credit card statement.
Looking at this entry, Ive seen that it refers to the online payment company, gives the name 
of the seller and the cost. There is no information as to what was actually purchased.
Mr Bs complaint is that Barclays should have informed him straight away that hed failed to 
provide the necessary evidence and that any claim would be declined. He also says it should 
have told him what course of action to follow and he wasnt told until it was too late that he 
may be able to approach the online payment company.
While I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly by following the 
process for a claim for a reimbursement because the chair had been faulty. Ive seen that 
Barclays first looked at chargeback. The chargeback scheme is run by the card provider and 
not Barclays which here was visa. Barclays role is to gather information from Mr B to provide 
to the chargeback scheme and that is what it did. Unfortunately, proof of the actual items 
purchased is required under the scheme and, as this was not available, then the chargeback 
scheme couldnt be utilised.
Barclays next considered a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
general effect of section 75 is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit 
agreement, such as a credit card, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods 
or services for misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against 
the credit provider which here is Barclays.My role is to decide whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in its response to Mr 
Bs claim under section 75. Ive seen that Barclays has looked at evidence from Mr B but 
wasnt able to contact the retailer since their identity was unclear. There was also no 
evidence as to the item purchased. Due to the missing evidence there wasnt enough proof 
to support a claim under section 75.
I think its fair and reasonable to have expected Barclays to have investigated whether it was 
able to assist Mr B before declining his claim. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have 
immediately rejected his claim for reimbursement of the chair. I also wouldnt have expected 
Barclays to set out other options for Mr B to follow regarding seeking redress for the chair 
outside of its own schemes and rules. As it was Mr Bs claim then it was for him to provide 
the necessary evidence. 
I also think it would be reasonable to assume that as payment for the chair appears to have 
been made via an online payment company, that Mr B would have been aware of that 
already and so would have taken steps to make his own enquiries. I dont think its fair for 
Barclays to be held responsible for Mr B being out of time to pursue any complaint with the 
online payment company.
I think Barclays has acted fairly towards Mr B by following its processes here. And although I 
appreciate this took time to resolve I dont agree that the delay has caused Mr B any 
financial loss. Thats because without the sales invoice or receipt there wasnt sufficient 
information for a claim and so the outcome would have remained the same whether or not 
Barclays had advised him of that earlier.
In respect to the number of calls Mr B says he had to make to Barclays to keep himself 
updated, this is something that falls under customer service and isnt in my remit to consider. 
Thats because customer service isnt a regulated activity in these circumstances. I cant 
comment on whether or not Barclays answered calls. However, I have seen that Barclays 
did send Mr B a number of letters updating him on his complaint and apologising for the 
delay.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr B, Im not upholding his 
complaint. I think Barclays handled his claim fairly and provided him with the correct answer, 
namely that there was insufficient evidence to support his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman