DRN-2691192
The complaint
Mr A and Miss D complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A and Miss D have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In June 2019, Mr A and Miss D booked a holiday abroad. They booked a ski chalet in a 
European country through a provider who Ill call H - where they planned to hold their 
wedding - and they were planning to stay there between 5 and 12 April 2020. They were 
then due to travel to another European country as part of a package holiday through a 
different provider for a further week.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, H cancelled Mr A and Miss Ds chalet booking. It told 
them it couldnt offer them a refund, but that it could postpone their booking up until 12 
December 2020. And due to the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all 
but essential travel on 17 March 2020, the second half of Mr A and Miss Ds trip was also 
cancelled.
Mr A and Miss D were able to recover the costs of their package holiday through their travel 
provider. But they didnt want to postpone their chalet booking because of the uncertainty 
concerning Covid-19 and the potential impact this might have on their wedding being able to 
take place as planned. And also because the booking would then potentially be out of 
season. As theyd paid for the trip by bank transfer, they werent able to make a chargeback 
claim or a section 75 claim either. Mr A and Ms D were also left out of pocket for Eurotunnel 
tickets that theyd booked to take them abroad, which they were told were valid for a year. 
So they made a cancellation claim on their travel insurance policy for around €12,000.
UKI turned down their claim. It relied on a policy term which excluded expenses which can 
be recovered from elsewhere. It said H had cancelled the booking and that therefore, it was 
responsible for refunding Mr A and Miss D the chalet cancellation costs. It also said that H 
had offered Mr A and Miss D the choice to postpone their trip and make use of the booking 
in the future. So it didnt think theyd suffered a financial loss. Mr A and Miss D asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr A and Miss Ds complaint should be upheld. FCO advice against 
all but essential travel is an insured event the policy covers. The FCO had advised against 
all but essential travel on 17 March 2020  so whether H or Mr A and Miss D cancelled the 
booking made no difference - Mr A and Miss D still wouldnt have been able to go on their 
trip. She felt in Mr A and Miss Ds circumstances, the option to postpone their holiday simply 
wasnt a suitable one. And she was satisfied theyd been unable to recover the costs of their 
trip from H or Eurotunnel. So she thought it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay Mr A 
and Miss Ds claim.
UKI disagreed. It maintained that as H had cancelled the booking, it was responsible for 
refunding the cancellation costs to Mr A and Miss D. It accepted that rebooking a wedding 
was difficult in the current circumstances, but it felt that H should pay their costs. It added 
that the policy offered legal expenses cover that Mr A and Miss D could try and use to seek 
a recovery of their costs from H.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think UKI had considered Mr A and Miss Ds claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr A 
and Miss Ds policy; the available evidence and the circumstances of their claim to decide 
whether UKI handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of the policy. UKI has considered the claim under Section A  
Cancelling your trip (before you are due to start your trip). This says:
What is covered
We will cover you for your:
 unused deposits;
 accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
 unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip for one
of the following reasons:
-The Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force 
after you opened your Black account or booked your trip (whichever was the later) 
and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip.
This section also includes a list of things UKI doesnt cover. One of these exclusions says:
We will not cover
 any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere.
Ive looked carefully at the emails between Miss D and H. It does appear that H decided to 
cancel the chalet booking, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So on a strict interpretation 
of the policy terms, Mr A and Miss D didnt cancel their trip. But I can depart from a strict 
application of the policy terms if I think it produces an unfair result.
In this case, I dont think it makes a difference whether H or Mr A and Miss D cancelled the 
chalet booking. Thats because the FCO advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 
2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government 
imposed a national lockdown, which wasnt due to be reviewed until after the chalet booking 
had ended. Mr A and Miss Ds booking was between 5 and 12 April 2020. So even if H 
hadnt cancelled the booking, following the closure of all non-essential public places in 
France on 14 March 2020, Mr A and Miss D wouldve needed to cancel their trip regardless 
after the change in FCO guidance. Its also clear that they booked this trip around nine 
months before the change in guidance. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to 
consider their claim as falling within the scope of this insured event.
UKI doesnt consider that Mr A and Miss D have suffered a financial loss. And it states that 
they should seek recovery of their costs from H. Ive thought carefully about this. Ive seen 
an email from H which confirms that there isnt a refund available to Mr A and Miss D  there 
was simply the choice to postpone their booking up until 12 December 2020 (which has now passed). The terms and conditions of their booking with H include a force majeure clause 
which sets a list of reasons why H may not be liable to pay refunds if its contractual 
obligations cant be fulfilled. These include act of government or other national or local 
authority and advice from the FCO to avoid or leave a certain country. So the booking 
terms and conditions suggest that H has no contractual obligation to refund Mr A and Miss D
for their cancellation costs.
It isnt clear whether or not UKI has seen these terms and conditions. The regulators rules 
say an insurer must provide reasonable guidance to a policyholder to help them make a 
claim. I think it was open for UKI to request the booking terms and conditions from Mr A and 
Miss D as part of its consideration of the claim if it felt this evidence was important or 
necessary.
Mr A and Miss D paid for their trip by bank transfer, so theres no potential for them to
recover their money through a chargeback or section 75 claim. And they didnt book the first 
part of their holiday as part of a package or linked travel arrangement  the Eurotunnel 
journey and chalet bookings were standalone. Which means they have no right to any refund 
under the Package Travel Regulations. So it seems to me that Mr A and Miss D have little 
chance of recovering their monies through H. Im satisfied, given they recovered their costs 
for the second part of their trip, that they did likely take all reasonable steps to try and get 
their trip costs back from both H and Eurotunnel. So I think they tried to mitigate UKIs losses 
as far as they could. In my view, it would seem unreasonable to require them to now make a 
legal expenses claim, when it seems theres cover available under the cancellation section 
of the policy.
Ive then thought about whether Mr A and Miss D did suffer a financial loss, or whether Hs 
offer to postpone their chalet booking (and by extension, the Eurotunnel trip) was a suitable 
one. In some circumstances, I might think a postponement or an extension to travel tickets 
was a fair offer and that therefore an insurer wasnt liable for the costs of cancellation.
But in these specific circumstances, Mr A and Miss Ds booking was for their wedding, which 
included a number of other guests travelling to attend and stay at the chalet. This meant any 
re-arrangements would have needed to be made around their guests too. There was the 
uncertainty as to how the pandemic would progress though the year, especially during the 
winter months. There was also the possibility that Mr A and Miss D and their guests may be 
unable to travel, either for health reasons, or due to further government and FCO 
restrictions. The email confirming the cancellation by H also states that there was no 
guarantee that theyd be able to rebook for 2021. 
This all meant that it wouldve been very difficult for Mr A and Miss D to either rearrange their 
wedding or commit to rebooking it during the timeframe offered by H. So in the specific 
circumstances of this case, I think the terms of Hs offer to postpone the booking were 
restrictive. I think the terms of Hs offer meant postponing the booking wasnt a suitable 
option. As such, I think Mr A and Miss D had little choice but to cancel it and incur a financial 
loss. In any event, the final date they were offered has now passed without Mr A and Miss D 
making use of the chalet. So I currently think its fair to say theyve incurred a financial loss.
Mr A and Miss D have also claimed for the cost of their Eurotunnel tickets. Eurotunnel said 
the tickets would remain valid for a year and Ive thought about this. It seems to me that the 
purpose of the tickets was for Mr A and Miss D to travel to their wedding. It seems unlikely to 
me that theyll be able to make the journey for that purpose  or, given the current situation, 
for any other purpose  before the tickets expire. So I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for UKI to refund Mr A and Miss D the cost of their Eurotunnel tickets.Overall, I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for UKI to pay Mr A 
and Miss Ds cancellation claim, together with interest.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr A and Miss D accepted my provisional findings.
UKI didnt accept my provisional decision. It provided a detailed response, which Ive 
summarised below:
-It recognised that Hs offer to amend the booking date may not have been a suitable 
one for Mr A and Miss D given the specific purpose of their trip and the limited 
availability of re-booking dates. So it accepted that in these particular circumstances, 
Hs offer shouldnt be treated as a recovery of Mr A and Miss Ds loss in itself;
-It maintained that the year long chance to rebook the Eurotunnel tickets should be 
considered as a recovery of the loss, because it could be used for different trips, not 
simply those connected to the wedding. It said this was in line with decisions made 
by my colleagues on other similar cases;
-It disagreed that Mr A and Miss D have little chance of recovering their monies from 
H. It didnt think my provisional view took into account relevant consumer protection 
legislation, which would strike out any unfair clauses from the contract between H 
and Mr A and Miss D.
-UKI referred to excerpts from the Competition and Markets Authoritys (CMA) 
Statement on Coronavirus (COVID-19), consumer contracts, cancellation and 
refunds, which sets out the CMAs position. Ive included these below:
'In some circumstances, due to lock down laws, a contract cannot go ahead as 
agreed or at all, and is therefore 'frustrated'. A contract will be frustrated as a matter 
of law if, due to no fault of the parties, something happens after the contract was 
entered into which means it can no longer be performed at all or performance would 
be radically different to what was agreed. As a result, the contract comes to an end 
and, where consumers have paid money in advance for services or goods that they 
have yet to receive, they will generally be entitled to obtain a refund.
-UKI stated that in this case, H, a UK company, cancelled Mr A and Miss Ds booking 
because of French government restrictions. It maintains H is subject to English law 
and so there are strong grounds to believe that H has a legal liability to refund Mr A 
and Miss Ds cost, irrespective of the force majeure clause;
-It also noted that Hs current terms and conditions state that if booking is cancelled 
because of Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the French government, it will offer a full 
refund. While UKI accepts this might simply reflect commercial considerations on Hs 
part over time, it suggests this is a tacit reflection of what the underlying legal position 
is;
-The policy provided that UKI wont cover costs when they can be recovered from 
elsewhere. If a policyholder has a legal right to a refund and isnt provided with one, 
UKI will support them to make a claim under the Legal Expenses cover provided by 
their travel policy. 
-UKI argued that if such a claim succeeds, then Mr A and Miss D will be able to 
recover their refund from H and would be better off financially, because no excesses 
would be deducted. If the claim wasnt successful; or the appointed lawyer didnt 
think the claim had a reasonable prospect of success, then the claim would be 
considered under the cancellation section of the policy, subject to the excess etc;
-It considered the right outcome would be for me to agree to the claim being assessed 
under the legal expenses section of the policy. It added that it had approached the industry regulator along these lines, which had been broadly comfortable with its 
approach.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Ive carefully considered all of the points UKI has raised, Ive decided 
it must now pay Mr A and Miss Ds claim and Ill explain why.
UKI seeks specifically to rely on the CMAs Statement to turn down Mr A and Miss Ds claim. 
Its position seems to be that it considers the contract between Mr A and Miss D and H has 
been frustrated. And so UKI considers that Mr A and Miss D may legally be entitled to a 
refund from H, regardless of the contractual force majeure clause. On this basis, it considers 
I should conclude that Mr A and Miss D must use the legal expenses cover on their travel 
insurance policy to take legal action against H, to try and obtain a refund from it. 
However, in my view, the fact that Mr A and Miss D are potentially entitled to a refund isnt 
the same as actually obtaining one. Ive noted that in October 2020, the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to insurers in dealing with 
policyholders who havent been able to obtain a refund from their travel provider. This 
guidance is called Finalised guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with 
rights and routes to refunds 
This guidance is effective until April 2021. The FCA has since issued a consultation on 
extending this guidance, to take effect from April 2021 and to remain place during the 
exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19 until varied or revoked.
The FCA guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are governed by the policy terms 
and then goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA expects the terms of travel 
insurance policies to be interpreted. In particular, theres relevant guidance relating to the 
interpretation of policy terms which require policyholders to mitigate their loss at Annex 1, 
paragraphs 1.6 and 1.7. These say:
1.6 Any potential claim on an insurance policy will depend on the terms of the policy. 
However, where an insurance provider requires policyholders to demonstrate or take 
reasonable steps to mitigate a financial loss under the terms of the policy, consumers 
should not have to go to unreasonable lengths to do this. For example, where a 
travel provider is resisting a refund, and the consumer is unlikely to have a valid 
section 75 claim, a consumer should not be expected to take more than reasonable 
steps to pursue the refund. What is reasonable will depend on the circumstances in 
each case. 
1.7 For example, a consumer might be seeking a refund after a hotel has cancelled their 
booking. We think it could be reasonable to expect a consumer to have pursued a 
claim up to a point where it appears from the correspondence (including the absence 
of replies) that a refund is unlikely to be forthcoming, or there is insufficient indication 
of when it may be expected so as to give rise to sufficient uncertainty as to whether 
there may be a refund. This will depend on the facts and circumstances  but where 
a consumer can demonstrate that they have made several unsuccessful attempts to 
obtain refund from the hotel, it might be unreasonable to expect them to do more. We 
would generally view it as unreasonable to expect that a consumer would need to go 
to court to recover their money.So it seems to me that the FCA, has given a clear indication that insurers shouldnt require 
policyholders to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. The FCA has explicitly 
stated that it would generally see it as unreasonable to expect a consumer to go to court to 
recover their losses. In my view, it would be unreasonable for UKI to require Mr A and Miss 
D to try to take legal action through their legal expenses cover before accepting this claim 
under the cancellation section.
Id also add that Mr A and Miss Ds policy includes a list of General Conditions that apply to 
the contract. One of these says:
We are entitled to take proceedings in your name to get back any money we have paid 
under this policy.
It seems to me that if UKI considers there is a good legal chance of recovering a refund from 
H due to the frustration of the contract, then the terms of the policy means its open to UKI to 
attempt legal recovery itself, to recover the monies it paid out to Mr A and Miss D.
Ive fully reviewed this complaint again in light of UKIs submissions. First, Im satisfied, for 
the reasons that I set out in my provisional decision, that this claim should fairly and 
reasonably be covered by the cancellation section of the policy. Its clear that following the 
change in FCO guidance on 17 March 2020, Mr A and Miss D would have had no choice but 
to cancel their trip.
I accept that the policy terms specifically exclude costs which may be recoverable from 
elsewhere. And as UKI has mentioned, in some circumstances, I might reach the view that a 
credit voucher representing accommodation costs, or train tickets should be treated as 
effectively indemnifying a policyholder for their losses.
But while the FCA has indicated that it might be reasonable to expect policyholders to 
pursue claims against their travel provider to seek recovery, it wouldnt generally consider it 
reasonable to expect that policyholder to take legal action. So Ive reconsidered whether Im 
satisfied that in the very specific circumstances of this complaint, Mr A and Miss D have 
taken reasonable steps to try and obtain a refund.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr A and Miss D paid for their booking by bank 
transfer. This means theyre unable to make a section 75 claim or a chargeback claim 
against their bank. Their bookings with H and with Eurotunnel were made directly  they 
werent part of a package holiday. This means that they simply arent entitled to a refund 
under the PTR as they were for the second part of their trip.
I think Mr A and Miss D have taken clear steps to try and recover their losses. Its possible 
that given a year has nearly passed since the booking; they havent made use of the 
Eurotunnel tickets; and the credit voucher has nearly expired, Eurotunnel may consider a 
refund. But in these circumstances, if Eurotunnel isnt prepared to offer a cash refund 
following the ticket expiry; UKI should now settle the ticket costs.
H has made it clear that it wont refund Mr A and Miss Ds booking because of the force 
majeure clause in the booking terms and conditions. I appreciate its booking terms have 
since changed, but this change only applies to bookings made some time after Mr A and 
Miss Ds booking. This was a commercial decision for H to make and I dont think its current 
commercial approach means it will now be willing to settle Mr A and Miss Ds costs.
UKI has suggested I endorse its suggested approach of Mr A and Miss D using its legal 
expenses cover to take legal action against H. And I do accept its possible that such an 
action could be successful. But it would still mean that Mr A and Miss D would need to seek legal opinion from UKIs panel as to the likely success or otherwise of their claim. And even if 
the claim was judged as reasonably likely to succeed, Mr A and Miss D would still need to 
take the matter to court. As Ive explained above, I think the FCAs guidance makes it clear 
that it would generally consider this approach to be unreasonable. And I dont think it would 
be reasonable to expect Mr A and Miss D to take such a step to obtain a refund which would 
otherwise be covered by the policy terms.
So overall, Im still satisfied that in the particular and specific circumstances of this 
complaint, the fair and reasonable outcome is for UKI to pay Mr A and Miss Ds cancellation 
claim, together with interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr A and Miss Ds cancellation claim, in line
with the policy terms and subject to any excesses. It must also add interest to the settlement 
at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman