DRN-2175059
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc cancelled his chequebook in error and caused him 
distress and inconvenience.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. 
Ive considered the service Mr W received from Santander and its clear he has
been left upset and inconvenienced as a result of his chequebook being cancelled. I 
understand it would have been frustrating to have to reissue cheques he had written, as well 
as having to contact the third-parties he had previously tried to pay. But I have to consider 
whether, in the circumstances, the £150 compensation offered by Santander is proportionate 
to the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr W, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Santander have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which Im 
not persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating, and that Mr W feels it has damaged 
his reputation. But it seems this was caused by an instance of miscommunication between 
Mr W and the Santander agent when he called to ask for a new chequebook on 
15 December 2019  where he said he didnt have any active cheques  which led to the 
agent incorrectly thinking the old chequebook could be blocked/cancelled. 
I acknowledge that the agent could have been clearer about what was being asked, but I 
dont consider the actions of Santander to warrant any further compensation at a higher 
level. And given that the chequebook had since been cancelled/blocked, they would not 
have been able to reactivate it, and neither could they have reissued cheques on Mr Ws 
behalf. However, for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused by the 
miscommunication, I consider their offer of £150 to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman