DRN-2324293
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, didnt provide him with the service it 
should have and that a marker has been unfairly applied to his credit file.
What happened
Mr C has an Aqua account. In February 2020, he spoke with an adviser about his account 
and an arrangement was put in place. He says he was misled into thinking he didnt need to 
make a payment in March 2020 but that the next payment due was 2 April. He said he 
wasnt told that if a payment wasnt made in March this would show as a missed payment on 
his credit file. He said the negative information on his credit file was affecting his ability to get 
a mortgage.
Mr C says he called Aqua several times and wasnt called back when promised. He then 
called to make the April payment and says Aqua denied there being an arrangement in place 
on his account and it wasnt until 16 April when the arrangement was confirmed. He also 
complains that he received several calls from Aquas auto dialler calling device. 
Aqua says that Mr Cs account went into arrears as a payment due by 5 February 2020 
wasnt received. On a call on 23 February, a no fee arrangement was agreed for £347 for six 
months, this meant charges would be frozen, but interest would continue to be charged. It 
said that on the call that a payment from Mr C of £340 was already pending and so he was 
asked to pay a further £7 to start the arrangement. This was received on 24 February and 
the arrangement put in place. It says no charges were applied in March 2020 and Mr C had 
been correctly told that the next payment would be due around 2 April. This wasnt received 
and so the arrangement was broken. Aqua says it has an obligation to provide accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies and that it hadnt made any mistakes in the 
reporting on Mr Cs account.
Aqua says that Mr C raised a complaint on a call on 16 April. It said that the call was not 
available but noted Mr Cs comments about being told he would be called back. It upheld this 
part of Mr Cs complaint and paid him £40 compensation for servicing issues.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
said that having listened to the call on 23 February 2020 when the arrangement was put in 
place, Mr C was told how the arrangement would work and when payments were due. On 
the call on 14 March she said that Mr C was told that the next payment was due by 2 April 
2020. She said that as Mr C didnt make this payment the arrangement was broken, and the 
arrears were then payable, and the marker was applied to his credit file. She didnt think that 
Aqua had acted unfairly in this case.
Our investigator noted that Mr C said he had been told he would be called back, and this 
didnt happen. She said Aqua hadnt been able to listen to the call on which this was 
discussed and so couldnt confirm if a call back was arranged but paid Mr C £40 
compensation which she thought was fair. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that Aqua had denied there being an 
arrangement in place and that this wasnt confirmed until the call on 16 April. He said he had 
asked for call recordings, but some of these werent available and those that were provided 
hadnt been encrypted and could have been adjusted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr C missed a payment on his account that was due on 5 February. I have listened 
to the call that took place on 23 February. On this Mr C said he thought he had paid 
the February amount, but this hadnt happened, and he had paid £340 in the 
previous few days. The adviser noted that Mr Cs next payment would be due on 5 
March. Given the timing she then discussed the option of a no fee arrangement. She 
explained how this would work and a payment for £7 was taken to start the 
arrangement. Mr C was told his next payment would be due around 2 April 2020 and 
then on or before the 2nd of the month. Given this I find that Mr C was made aware of 
the six-month arrangement that had been set up on his account and that the next 
payment of £347 was due by 2 April 2020. 
On a call on 14 March, Mr C was told he had a payment due on 5 March, but Mr C 
explained that he had discussed his account and an arrangement was in place. 
There was then a discussion about the £347 payment being due in March, but it was 
agreed this was a mistake and payment was due by 2 April. The adviser apologised 
to Mr C. While I accept this call could have caused some confusion, before the call 
ended the arrangement and payment date of 2 April were confirmed.
Mr C didnt make the required payment by 2 April and so the arrangement was 
broken. I note Mr Cs comments about being told an arrangement wasnt in place and 
therefore him not making a payment. But based on the calls I have listened to, I find 
that Mr C was aware that a payment of £347 was required to be made by 2 April. 
Therefore, when this wasnt made, I do not find I can say Aqua did anything wrong by 
reporting this to the credit reference agencies.
Mr C was told on 23 February call that if the payments werent made on time this 
would be reported to the credit reference agencies. Aqua is required to report 
accurate information about Mr Cs account and I do not find I can say it has done 
anything wrong in this case. Therefore, I do not require it to remove the marker from 
Mr Cs credit file.
A copy of the call from 16 April isnt available but based on the other calls I have 
listened to it is clear Mr C raised a complaint on that call and had expected a call 
back which didnt happen. It is then explained that he shouldnt have been told he 
would receive this. Given this, and the confusion about the arrangement in the initial 
part of the call on 14 March, I do not find that Mr C was provided with the service he 
should have been.
As the issue on the 14 March call was resolved at that time, and Mr C was paid £40 
compensation for the service issues he raised, I find that Aqua has done enough to 
resolve this complaint.For the reasons set out above, I do not require Aqua to take any further action regarding this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, to do anything further 
in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman