DRN-1948709
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are the directors of a limited company, who I'll refer to as 'H'. H complains that 
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly terminated cover for a claim it 
made under its commercial insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, H received a Letter of Claim from a client's solicitors. It alleged that the 
client had received misleading investment advice from H in 2011, which resulted in 
significant losses. It alleged that H had breached its duty of care to the client, its fiduciary 
duty and the contract that was formed when it agreed to give the client investment advice.
H didn't agree it had advised the client about the investment so it claimed under the legal 
expenses section of its commercial insurance policy for the cost of defending the claim. 
Initially, DAS declined the claim as it concerned events which happened before H's current 
policy started. But H was able to establish that it had held continuous legal expenses cover 
with DAS for many years. So, DAS agreed to consider the claim under the terms that would 
have applied in 2011. It asked its panel solicitor to carry out a review.
The solicitor contacted DAS because it noted some exclusions in the policy that seemed 
relevant to the claim. The first excluded claims arising from an alleged breach of professional 
duty and the second excluded claims relating to financial products. DAS said it wouldn't 
apply either exclusion in these circumstances. The solicitor, in turn, confirmed this to H and a 
barrister was instructed to assess H's prospects of defending the claim.
In April 2019, DAS reviewed the decision it had made to cover the claim in light of the two 
exclusions highlighted by the soicitor. It read the Letter of Claim and ultimately decided that it 
should have applied the exclusions and declined the claim at the outset. DAS wrote to H 
explaining that it would be withdrawing cover. But it agreed to pay for any legal expenses 
incurred so far, including the barrister's opinion, plus £150 compensation.
H complained to DAS. It felt DAS had given the solicitor the impression that, although the 
exclusions were relevant to the claim, it had made a conscious decision to set them aside. It 
said, in any event, the claim didn't relate to a financial product, and only part of it arose from 
an alleged breach of professional duty. By this time, the barrister had confirmed that H's 
prospects of defending the allegations were high. 
DAS didn't alter its stance, so H brought its complaint to our service. It said DAS's 
agreement to set aside the exclusions superseded the terms of the policy and it continued to 
think there was no financial product involved. It said it had only committed to involving 
solicitors because it had been led to understand this would be funded by DAS. And it could 
otherwise have persuaded the client, who the directors knew well, to drop the matter. It said 
DAS's handling of the claim caused its directors additional distress, and it also alleged that 
DAS had blocked its emails. 
H has since instructed its own solicitors and feels DAS should pay their costs and contribute 
towards an out of court settlement they've been negotiating with the client and her solicitors. But DAS maintained that there was no cover for this under the terms of H's policy. I issued a 
provisional decision on the case on 8 June 2020. I've included an extract below:
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm minded to uphold it in 
part. There's been some discussion about whether the claim should have been considered 
against H's current policy, or its policy from 2011. As both versions contain the exclusions 
that DAS has relied on I don't feel this is something I need to determine.
The claim being made against H alleges negligence both in tort and in contract. One of the 
events H is insured for under the legal expenses section of its policy is contract disputes. But 
it's important to highlight that this wouldn't extend to cover the elements of the claim brought 
in tort. The exclusion for disputes arising from an alleged breach of professional duty only 
serves to reinforce that. I can't see that the elements of the claim brought in tort would be 
covered under any of the other events H is insured for either. So, I don't think DAS was 
required to fund H's defence against those parts of the claim under the terms of the policy. I 
appreciate H argues it wasn't professionally negligent, but the allegations were that it was, 
which is what's relevant. 
I've thought carefully about whether there's any cover under the policy for the elements of 
the claim brought in contract. The 'contract disputes' section of H's policy covers claims 
relating to the purchase, hire, sale, or provision of goods or services. But it excludes claims 
relating to "a loan, mortgage, pension or any other financial product and choses in action".
Choses in action has an exceptionally broad application. It refers to any right over property 
which can't be enforced by taking physical possession of the property, including rights 
derived from a contract. Given that any claim made about a contract dispute is likely to 
involve a chose in action, I don't think DAS can rely solely on this to decline H's claim. In my 
view, it therefore needs to show, on balance, that the claim relates to a financial product. 
H has described the investment its client made in 2011. Her money was used to fund a 
standby letter of credit. This credit line was then used to trade debt notes. DAS argues 
simply that as this involved investing the client's funds, it's a financial product. But I think this 
fails to recognise that while some financial products may involve an investment, investments 
aren't in themselves financial products. Investors can put their money directly into all kinds of 
assets like stock, property or art in order to generate income. Such assets may be financial 
instruments, but aren't financial products. 
DAS hasn't defined 'financial product', but in an everyday context it means something made 
for sale which relates to how someone manages their money. I don't think a direct holding in 
an asset (or assets) falls under that definition. 
For example, the Financial Conduct Authority differentiates between investments (like the 
ones described above) and investment products. It defines an investment 'product' as an 
investment that offers exposure to underlying financial assets, but in a packaged form which 
modifies that exposure compared with a direct holding in the asset. Individual savings 
accounts, unit linked investment bonds and endowment policies are common examples 
because they offer indirect exposure to underlying financial assets, but in a packaged form, 
and have thus been made for sale. I think DAS needs to show this investment has those 
features in order to satisfy me it can be considered a 'product'. And I don't think it's relevant 
that H helped the client open a bank account because that's not central to the allegations. 
I don't think DAS can apply the exclusion simply because the alleged advice related to an 
investment. And I'm not satisfied from what it's said about the investment so far that it 
involves an investment product with the features described above, or any other financial product. I'm mindful that it's up to DAS to demonstrate, on balance, that the exclusion 
applies to H's claim, not for H to demonstrate that it doesn't. So, I've set out the directions I 
intend to make if DAS isn't subsequently able to persuade me the exclusion applies.
H argues DAS made a conscious decision to set aside both exclusions, so it wasn't fair for it 
to later change its mind and it should therefore have continued to cover the claim in full. 
Ultimately though, DAS is entitled to keep claims under review. And, in my opinion, it isn't 
obliged to continue to cover a claim that's been accepted outside of the policy terms. As I've 
said, I'm satisfied there's no cover for the aspects of the claim brought in tort. So, I think DAS 
was entitled to withdraw cover for those elements of the claim. 
I'm not persuaded H was left in a worse position by virtue of DAS withdrawing cover for the 
aspects of the claim brought in tort. It paid for any work carried out by its panel solicitors up 
to its withdrawal of cover, including the barrister's opinion. 
I know H feels it could have avoided litigation entirely if it had been made aware DAS 
wouldn't be funding its defence in full, but I think that's unlikely. The client had already 
appointed solicitors who had advised her to commence proceedings if the alleged losses 
weren't reimbursed in full within seven weeks of the letter of claim. So, I think it's more likely 
H always would have needed to appoint legal representation to defend the claim. 
Based on what I've seen so far though, I think DAS should have continued to fund the 
aspects of the claim brought in contract. So, I intend to direct DAS to ask H's solicitors to 
estimate what proportion of the work they've carried out on H's claim related to those 
aspects. And I intend to direct DAS to pay the same proportion of H's legal fees. 
If H has already paid these fees I intend to direct DAS to add interest at a rate of 8% annual 
simple calculated from the date H paid the fees to the date DAS pays the settlement. Whilst I 
appreciate DAS hasn't had control over the running of the case of the costs incurred, I think 
it forfeited its right to do so when it withdrew cover. 
I've also considered whether H's defence was prejudiced by DAS's withdrawal of cover for 
these aspects of the claim. H has said the parties agreed an out of court settlement on the 
understanding that it would buy the client out of her right to a future payment. It seems H 
wanted to avoid proceedings due to the effort, stress and cost involved. And it's worth 
remembering that it still would have had to self-fund part of the claim even if DAS had 
agreed to fund the contractual elements, so these considerations would still have applied. 
Presumably, H also took advice from its solicitor before deciding that agreeing to the 
settlement was preferable to going to court. I think it's unlikely that H would have acted 
differently if DAS had been funding the contractual elements of the claim. So, I don't think its 
defence was prejudiced. I haven't seen evidence, by way of legal advice for example, that 
leads me to think it could otherwise have achieved a better outcome if it had continued to 
litigate. Or that it was only prevented from doing so because it had exhausted its funding. 
H has pointed out that legal expenses insurers will sometimes pay the amount in dispute 
instead of continuing legal action. And it has previously asked DAS if it would be prepared to 
contribute to the out of court settlement on that basis. But such payments are at the insurer's 
discretion and will only usually be made in low value claims where there's a risk the cost of 
legal action would outweigh the amount in dispute. 
That wasn't the case here, so it's very unlikely DAS would have offered to make such a 
payment even if it had been co-funding the claim. Instead, it would likely have been led by 
the solicitor's assessment of whether continuing to litigate was worthwhile. Had the solicitors 
advised H to accept the settlement instead, cover would have ended. There's no cover under the contract disputes section for H's liability to the client, only for legal costs. So, I 
don't intend to direct DAS to contribute towards the settlement. But if, as part of the 
settlement, H agreed to pay the client's legal costs, it should send me evidence of this.
The claim against H alleges significant losses and I can see that one of the directors is 
recovering from open-heart surgery. So, I recognise that DAS's claims handling must have 
added to the stress they were experiencing at the time. But H is the eligible complainant in 
this case and is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. I'm therefore not able to 
compensate the directors personally. H itself can't experience distress, and I think the £150 
offered by DAS is enough to reflect the inconvenience caused to H when it had to source 
alternative legal representation unexpectedly and at short notice. As I've said, it would 
always have had to partially self-fund its defence of the claim. 
I can see that H feels DAS blocked its emails. This is something we've put to DAS and it 
says it can't see any record of it having done so. In any event, it seems H was able to 
continue its correspondence with DAS via a different email address in the days that followed. 
I'm not asking DAS to take further action regarding this aspect of the complaint. There's also 
a suggestion in H's testimony that it incurred legal costs in relation to the dispute with DAS. 
But there was no requirement for H to be legally represented under DAS's complaints 
procedure. So, I don't think it would be fair for DAS to refund any professional fees that H 
incurred in pursuing a complaint with DAS.
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold H's complaint in part. I intend to direct DAS 
to ask H's solicitors what proportion of the work they carried out on H's claim related to the 
allegations brought in contract, and to pay the same proportion of H's legal fees. If H has 
already paid the fees, I intend to direct DAS to add interest at a rate of 8% annual simple 
calculated from the date H paid the fees to the date DAS pays the settlement. I also intend to 
direct DAS to pay H £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience in line with its 
offer, if it hasn't already. 
Should a dispute arise over the proportion of work carried out by H's solicitors relating to the 
aspects of the claim brought in contract, DAS can appoint a costs draftsman to assess this. 
However, DAS won't be able to refuse any costs on the grounds of reasonableness because 
H shouldn't be left out of pocket due to its withdrawal of cover. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
DAS responded to confirm that it was prepared to agree to my directions and didn't wish to 
put forward any further representations regarding the nature of the investment. H clarified 
that the settlement agreement was in fact yet to be signed, and the dispute was ongoing. 
It made further representations about the close relationship between its directors and the 
client in support of its assertion that it could have persuaded her to drop the matter without 
involving solicitors had it known DAS wouldn't fund its defence in full.
It sent me further evidence to show that emails it had tried to send DAS after it received its 
final response letter were returned as undeliverable in support of its allegation that DAS 
blocked its emails. And it highlighted that while it was able to obtain a response by using a 
different email address, this said that any further correspondence would go unanswered, 
suggesting that DAS had in fact made a deliberate attempt to block its emails.
It didn't agree with my provisional findings regarding whether H itself could be compensated 
for the distress suffered by its directors. Whilst it accepted in principle that H has a separate 
identity, it said that in practice, the director who'd undergone heart surgery was solely 
responsible for running the company day to day. And it highlighted that the claim was made against both the limited company and that director personally. It felt £3,000 was a more 
reasonable reflection of the impact of DAS's actions. 
It also sent me evidence that early iterations of the settlement agreement involved it paying 
the client's legal costs in full. And while there has since been further negotiation on this the 
final version will likely involve it paying towards the client's legal representation. H asked 
whether my provisional decision meant DAS would contribute to its legal costs if it decided to 
allow the matter to proceed to court. 
What Ive decided  and why
I've reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I'm grateful to H for elaborating on the relationship between its directors and the client, but I 
haven't concluded it could have avoided litigation entirely. By the time H became aware of 
the client's claim she had already instructed solicitors who had advised her to commence 
court proceedings if H's cooperation with the legal process wasn't forthcoming. 
I accept that it seems unusual that H suddenly became unable to contact its  complaint 
handler once DAS had issued its final response letter. In truth, it's hard for me to determine 
whether this resulted from a technical issue (like a full mailbox for example), or a deliberate 
attempt by DAS to curtail its correspondence with H. In either event, I'm mindful that DAS 
had provided a final response letter setting out its position on the matter which explained 
how H could take things further if it remained unhappy. And whilst it may have invoked a 
response that DAS had nothing further to add, H was able to send the email in question to 
DAS via a different email address a few days later. I still don't think there's any further action 
DAS needs to take in relation to this aspect of the complaint. 
I appreciate H's comments that the director who underwent heart surgery carries the burden 
of H's day to day operations. I also understand the claim was made against both the limited 
company and that director personally. I have no doubts that this must have been 
a challenging period for the director. But the policyholder (and therefore the eligible 
complainant) here is H. And as a limited company, regardless of its size, H has a distinct 
legal identity from its directors. A limited company can't experience distress, but can be 
inconvenienced. It remains my view that the £150 compensation already offered by DAS 
reflects the inconvenience to H of having to source new legal representation at short notice. I 
can't award compensation to H for distress and inconvenience suffered by its directors. 
H also highlighted that the dispute is ongoing and that it may end up paying some of its 
client's legal costs. In principle, I think DAS should continue to cover the aspects of the claim 
brought in contract while they remain eligible under the remaining terms and conditions of 
H's policy. If further legal work is required going forward, I think it's reasonable that 
DAS should have an opportunity to agree terms of appointment with H's solicitors. But I'd 
encourage it to be flexible in those negotiations and conduct them in a way that recognises 
its previous failings and minimises the impact on any ongoing litigation.
I also note that the policy covers an opponent's legal costs if paid with DAS's consent. In the 
event that H's solicitor advises it to accept the settlement agreement, and the final iteration 
of the agreement involves H paying any of its client's legal costs, DAS should consider 
whether it's prepared to pay a proportion of those costs under the terms of H's policy. 
If H chooses to reject the settlement and allow the matter to proceed to court, DAS would 
only be obliged to contribute to the cost of this if H was acting with advice from its solicitors. H would also need to demonstrate that it had a reasonable prospect of achieving a 
favourable outcome in court, and that court action was proportionate in the circumstances.
I'm wary though that, for now, these are hypothetical scenarios and DAS will need to be 
given an opportunity to reach its own decisions on how any future events affect coverage. 
While I've given some guidance above, these shouldn't be taken as directions. Should any 
dispute arise over DAS's future handling of the claim, H can complain to DAS about this, and 
if no agreement can be reached, it can refer the matter to us for an impartial review. 
Putting things right
My position on the claim is that DAS hasn't been able to demonstrate, on balance, that the 
elements brought in contract are excluded. It should therefore have covered these elements 
from the outset. The following directions are intended to put H back in the position I think it 
would have been in had that happened.
I direct DAS to liaise with H's solicitors to establish what proportion of the work they've 
carried out to date related to the aspects of the claim brought in contract. I direct it to pay 
that proportion of H's legal fees. If H has already paid the fees, I direct DAS to add interest at 
a rate of 8% annual simple from the date H paid them to the date it pays the settlement.  
Should a dispute arise over the proportion of work carried out by H's solicitors relating to the 
aspects of the claim brought in contract, DAS can appoint a costs draftsman to assess this. 
However, DAS won't be able to refuse any costs on the grounds of reasonableness because 
H shouldn't be left out of pocket due to its withdrawal of cover. 
DAS should continue to cover the aspects of the claim brought in contract while they remain 
eligible under the remaining terms and conditions of H's policy. I also direct DAS to pay H 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience in line with its offer, if it hasn't already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to carry out the instructions listed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman