DRN-1848048
The complaint
Miss M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc is holding her liable for a loan, 
which she says she didnt take out.
What happened
Miss M opened an account with NatWest in May 2019.
On 14 September 2019, NatWest received an online loan application for £5,000 in Miss Ms 
name. It approved the loan and paid the funds directly into Miss Ms account on 16 
September 2019. 
Between 17 and 19 September 2019, someone spent the funds. They made two large cash 
withdrawals and a payment to an account with same name as Miss M. These transactions 
were done in branch with her debit card and PIN. They also withdrew cash from an ATM with 
her card and PIN and made three small purchases with her card.
Miss M complained to NatWest that she hadnt applied for the loan and had been the victim 
of identity fraud.  NatWest explained that the funds were withdrawn from her account using 
her debit card and PIN.
Miss M said she hadnt made the card transactions.  She said shed lost her jacket and her 
debit card was in her jacket. And she said shed kept a written note of her PIN in the same 
jacket. She also said she didnt live in the area where the transactions were made. She later 
told NatWest that she hadnt kept a written note of her PIN. She also told the bank that shed 
received a call from a trading company and shed given the caller all her personal details. 
She believed this was how her details had been used for the loan application.
She asked NatWest to cancel the loan agreement and release her from any liability.
NatWest decided this wasnt fraud. It concluded that either Miss M had applied for the loan 
herself, or she had given someone access to her account. It said:
 her personal details were included in the loan application
 the loan was paid into her bank account
 the funds were withdrawn with her debit card and PIN
 Miss Ms evidence was inconsistent.
NatWest subsequently closed her account.
As Miss M wasnt happy with NatWests decision, she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He felt unable to conclude 
that Miss M had been the victim of identity theft. He thought it was more likely that shed 
made the loan application or that shed allowed someone else to use her account. And he 
didnt think NatWest acted unfairly by closing her account.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators opinion. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid my review of the evidence has led me to the same conclusion as 
that reached by the investigator.
To help me reach my decision, Ive considered:
 the application for the loan
 the account the loan monies were paid into.
Ive also taken into account Miss Ms version of events.
Ive seen the information in the loan application. It includes Miss Ms full name and date of 
birth. NatWest said her bank account details were also provided. And I can see from her 
bank statement that the loan advance was paid directly into her account. So, whoever made 
this application knew they could easily take the money from her account without being 
caught. And clearly, they did, using her debit card and PIN. 
The banks online audit log also shows that Miss M made multiple logins to her mobile 
banking app between 14 and 17 September 2019. She would have seen the money in her 
account on 16 September and she would have seen the disputed transactions, but she didnt 
report them to the bank until November 2019.
Ive considered Miss Ms evidence but Im afraid I dont find it to be reliable. 
Miss M said shed lost her debit card. But she didnt say where or when shed lost it or last 
used it.  I find it unusual that she hadnt reported it lost or stolen. She only mentioned it was 
missing when NatWest questioned her about the loan.
 
Also, her evidence about the PIN was inconsistent. First, she said shed kept a written note 
of the PIN. When NatWest explained this was a breach of the terms and conditions, she 
changed her statement to say she hadnt written it down. She said she had once kept it in 
her phone but had deleted it. If this is correct, then I cant see how the person using her card 
knew her PIN.  There were no incorrect attempts at entering the PIN. This suggests the 
person already knew it. So, either it was Miss M using the card and PIN or she had given 
them to someone she knew.
Lastly, when NatWest asked her how a third party knew her personal details, she said shed 
received a phishing call from a trading company on a private number. She said she shared 
her personal details with the caller. However, she couldnt provide any details about the 
caller or the date of the call. Theres no obvious explanation for how the caller then got hold 
of her debit card and PIN. Ive thought about the possibility that someone stole her card and 
then made the call to her, but I dont think thats likely either. Theres no evidence of how the 
third party knew the private number the call was made on. So, I dont think this happened.
Im afraid I consider that the banks evidence outweighs Miss Ms explanation of what 
happened. All in all, I consider its more likely than not that Miss M made the loan application 
herself or she handed over control of her account to someone she knew, possibly in return 
for payment and not fully realising the consequences of her actions. In these circumstances, 
I think its fair and reasonable for NatWest to hold her liable for the loan.account closure
The terms and conditions for the account sets out the circumstances when NatWest may 
close an account. Im satisfied that NatWest adhered to the terms and conditions when it 
decided to close Miss Ms account.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman