DRN-3704117
The complaint
Mr R complains about U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchills (UKI) valuation of his 
car following a claim under his car insurance. He also complains about errors they made in 
disposing of his car. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was declared a write-off following an accident. UKI valued Mr Rs car at £18,000 
which they later raised to £18,170 and explained the salvage would become their property. 
UKI also explained theyd classified Mr Rs car as a Category N  Non-Structural Damage 
write-off. Mr R challenged the valuation and sent details of similar cars being advertised for 
higher. UKI maintained their position, so Mr R complained about their valuation. Mr R also 
complained that he was told by UKI his car was a Category N write-off so he wanted to buy 
the car back. He said he was told the Category N write-off was incorrect as the car had 
structural damage and wouldnt be allowed back on the road. Mr R said, despite this, he 
found out the car had been repaired and was back on the road. Mr R also complained UKI 
moved his car despite telling him it would stay where it was until the claim was settled, and 
UKI never sought Mr Rs agreement to dispose of his car.    
UKI responded and explained theyd already carried out a valuation dispute so they couldnt 
take this issue forward. UKI also said when they spoke with Mr R about the value placed on 
his car, they mentioned that he would need to collect his personal items from his car before it 
was disposed of. UKI say Mr R called them to say hed gone to the garage to collect his 
items but the car was gone. UKI said they contacted the salvage agent and arranged to have 
the items sent to Mr R. UKI apologised for any inconvenience caused by Mr Rs car being 
collected so quickly by the salvage agent but they didnt feel any errors had been made as 
Mr Rs items had been sent to him 
UKI said theyd checked the original engineers report and this showed that, when they 
spoke with Mr R, they asked if they could dispose of the car and the report shows Mr R 
agreed, so his car was passed to a salvage agent. UKI said theyd reviewed Mr Rs call to 
them during which Mr R asked how much it would cost for him to purchase his car back. 
UKI said the engineer explained he didnt feel the car should be back on the road due to the 
extent of damage. UKI said the engineer was disputing the Category N marker and would be 
getting it changed to a Category B  which would mean Mr R wouldnt be able to purchase 
the car back. 
UKI said Mr R had been denied the opportunity to purchase his car back, but this was for a 
valid reason. UKI said theyd originally placed a Category N marker on Mr Rs car but this 
was then changed to a Category B. They said, when this happened they shouldve updated 
the Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud and Theft Register (MIAFTR) database but this didnt 
happen. They said, while theyve upheld the complaint that the record shouldve been 
updated based on the engineers review, they couldnt have prevented the salvage agent 
from selling Mr Rs car after it was passed to them. UKI said, once a car has been cleared 
for disposal and theyve met their obligation to settle the claim, their limit of liability ends. 
They said the salvage agent will do their own assessment and choose what to do with the 
car  and in this case, they decided to sell the car. UKI said they understand knowing Mr Rs 
car is back on the road has upset him so they sent £200 to Mr Rs bank account. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and UKI on 22 August 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Car valuation 
My starting point is Mr Rs car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and says, under the heading The most we will pay, UKI wont pay 
more than the market value of the car at the time of the loss. The policy defines 
market value as the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and 
model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. The 
policy goes further to say If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or 
replacing your vehicle up to its UK market value. This is the current value of the 
vehicle at the time of the claim 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these 
guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and 
auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. 
I note Mr R says UKIs valuation doesnt represent a fair market value as it doesnt 
factor in the unique market for used cars due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the rarity 
of the specific make, model and specification of his car. Ive seen that UKI reached 
their figure by using industry recognised tools to find out the market value of the car. 
UKI have provided information which shows their search with Glasss returned a 
valuation of £18,170 and for CAP it was £17,431. UKI have provided a screenshot of 
the Cazana valuation which is £20,597 but they say this wasnt used at the time of 
valuation. Ive also noted that for this search, UKI used an estimated mileage. It 
appears UKI then used the Glasss valuation to settle Mr Rs claim. 
UKI accept that, in following our services approach, they shouldve considered the 
average of the three motor guides. I can see theyve carried out a further Cazana 
valuation and this gives a figure of £19,849  but this valuation takes into account the 
correct mileage. The valuations for Glasss and CAP remain the same, so this gives 
an average of £18,483. So, UKI say theyre prepared to offer the balance of £313 
together with 8% simple interest from the date of loss. I can see that the valuations 
obtained by UKI take into account the make, model, age, mileage and specification of 
Mr Rs car. 
   
I can see our investigator looked at three motor trade guides to get their valuations 
for Mr Rs car. I can see this also took into account the make, model, age, mileage 
and specification. Using CAP the valuation given was £18,395, Cazana gave a figure 
of £19,581 and Glasss was £18,570. 
I would add the Glasss valuation carried out shows the date of loss as October 2020, 
but this should be August 2020. So, I think its fair to take into account UKIs 
valuation for Glasss at £18,170. Taking these figures into account, the average is 
£18,715. Given that the difference between this valuation and what Mr R received is 
£545, I dont believe Mr R received a fair settlement. 
I can see our investigator is of the view that, given the increase in selling prices of 
some second hand cars due to Covid-19, its not fair to value Mr Rs car based on the date of loss. And, to factor in this rise in price, our investigator has used the current 
date to value Mr Rs car and used two motor trade guides to arrive at an average 
valuation of £23,644.50. I accept that many popular second-hand cars have steadily 
increased in value over the last two years. Therefore, I think in circumstances where 
a consumer has been unable to replace their vehicle because of an insurers low 
offer we might think its fair and reasonable to depart from the policy terms and ask 
the insurer to value the vehicle using the date of final settlement, instead of the date 
of loss, so the consumer can buy a replacement on the day theyre paid. However, in 
the circumstances of this case, I dont think thats fair and reasonable as Mr R has 
already replaced his car. So, I dont think it would be fair to expect UKI to pay the 
market value at the time of payment.  
 
Ive also carefully considered Mr Rs comment about UKIs valuation not taking into 
account the impact that Covid-19 had on the selling prices of some second-hand 
cars. But Im not persuaded this means the guides arent a fair and reasonable way 
of valuing his car. I say this because the guides use a range of sources to provide the 
values including car adverts and auction prices. I can see Mr R has provided a 
screenshot from the website of a car trading platform which shows a similar car for 
£23,495 and another for £24,500. He says he couldnt therefore find a like for like car 
for £18,170. We usually place less weight on advertisements as they contain asking 
prices that are often negotiated downwards. Nevertheless, Ive looked at the 
examples Mr R has sent us. I am sorry to disappoint Mr R but they arent enough to 
persuade me that the trade guides are unreliable for a car like Mr Rs. I appreciate 
the arguments Mr R has made. But the policy isnt in place to pay the same price 
seen on an advertisement. Its in place to pay a market value as defined in the policy. 
 
Its not the role of this service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these 
types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the 
insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them. Its our role to make sure UKI 
is giving Mr R a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. And based on the 
information provided about Mr Rs car and using the trade guides, I dont think UKI 
have carried out a fair valuation. UKI have already paid Mr R £18,170, so they should 
pay Mr R £545 together with 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
Disposing of Mr Rs car
I note Mr R is concerned UKI disposed of his car without his authority and denied him 
the opportunity to repair and retain his car. I can see the policy says under the 
heading Uneconomical repairs, Once we settle your claim, your car will become our 
property From the information Ive seen, it appears Mr Rs car was taken by the 
salvage agent prior to the claim being settled, so I dont believe, in line with the policy 
terms, the car had at that point become UKIs property. Ive looked at the Audatex 
report and under the question Authority given to dispose of the vehicle, its 
answered Yes. I note UKI say this report shows when they spoke with Mr R, he 
agreed for them to dispose of his car. Mr R disputes this and says he never gave 
such authority. 
I havent been provided with a recording of this call, so Ive looked at UKIs contact 
notes. The notes dont record any conversation around disposal of the car or Mr R 
agreeing to this. Ive listened to call recordings following Mr Rs car being taken by 
the salvage agent. In one call, Mr R says he has visited the garage to collect his 
belongings from his car but his car has been moved. The agent explains they will 
arrange for the salvage agent to do a sweep of the car and forward Mr Rs 
belongings to him. Mr R then explains which items he would like returned. Theres a 
call from UKIs engineer to Mr R. During this call Mr R explains he has been to the garage and his car was gone so he wasnt able to collect his belongings. Mr R 
explains he understands his car is now with a salvage agent. Theres a further call 
with UKIs engineer during which Mr R raises the point that he was told his car 
wouldnt be moved until his claim had been settled. 
From the information Ive seen, I dont believe Mr R was told his car would be moved. 
Its clear from the phone calls that Mr R visited the garage expecting to collect his 
belongings and was shocked to see his car was no longer there. And, the phone calls 
are a contemporaneous account of Mr Rs frustration. In relation to getting Mr Rs 
agreement for the car to be sent to salvage, while Ive noted what the Audatex report 
shows, based on all the other information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Mr 
R hadnt given agreement at that point. Given that Mr R didnt know his car had been 
moved, I dont believe hed given any agreement at that point for his car to be 
disposed of. 
I understand why this has upset Mr R and I acknowledge his preference was to buy 
his car back and repair it. However, even though his agreement wasnt obtained, and 
the car was taken by the salvage agent, I dont believe this caused a missed 
opportunity for Mr R to buy back and repair his car. I say this because the information 
shows Mr Rs car was originally written-off as a Category N, but this was later 
changed to a Category B. During a call with the engineer, they explain to Mr R that 
the cars write-off categorisation has changed from a Category N to a Category B. 
Theres a discussion around Mr R buying the car back but the engineer explains they 
cant because its a Category B write-off.   
I can see UKI sent a query to the engineer about the write-off category and they 
confirm they placed a Category B on the car due to the extensive damage sustained 
to the rear structure. I can see UKI have provided photos which show the damage 
together with commentary, so Im persuaded by the engineers findings here. A 
revised Audatex report also shows the car has been written-off as a Category B. So, 
even though I do understand Mr Rs reasons for wanting to buy his car back, I cant 
say it was unreasonable for UKI to decline this request.  
Write-off category
I understand the car was sold by the salvage agent, and this was made possible 
because UKI didnt update the MIAFTR database to reflect the change in the write-off 
categorisation. 
I can see Mr R has provided an email from the salvage agent which confirms the car 
came through to them as a Category N vehicle and it was therefore sold on by them 
as a salvageable Category N vehicle. System notes provided by UKI say the 
dispute engineer has confirmed we should have updated the category to prevent this 
vehicle going back on the road. Theres also a separate note by UKI which says a 
MIAFTR amendment shouldve been made. 
So, while I note UKI say in their complaint response that they couldnt prevent the 
salvage agent from selling the car on, it appears in this case the car was sold as a 
Category N  and this occurred because UKI hadnt updated the MIAFTR database. I 
accept, had the car been sold after UKI had amended the database, then thats out of 
UKIs control. But, in this case, the car was sold by the salvage agent as a Category 
N  and at that time it was still showing on the database as a Category N. 
I do understand why this has caused Mr R significant upset, but I dont believe this 
changes the position in relation to Mr R buying his car back. I agree the car has been sold while incorrectly still showing as a Category N, but Ive explained above why I 
believe its reasonable for UKI to treat the car as a Category B write-off. So, in this 
case, the error by UKI has been their failure to update the database with the change 
in category which has allowed the car to be sold. They havent though made an error 
in declining Mr Rs request to buy back his car. 
That said, I do understand why Mr R has been left very upset at learning his car is 
back on the road. It was his intention to repair his car back to a roadworthy standard, 
but due to UKIs error, someone else has brought his car back on the road. So, while 
UKI have paid Mr R £200 for the upset caused, I dont think this goes far enough to 
reflect the impact on him. In addition to this, Mr R has provided information which 
shows the car was still showing as a Category N more than a year after he was told it 
was a Category B. Its not clear whether UKI have updated the MIAFTR database, 
but I would remind UKI they have an obligation and ongoing responsibility for 
ensuring information on the MIAFTR database is accurate. In particular, I refer to the 
Association of British Insurers Code of Practice for the categorisation of motor 
vehicle salvage. This says Any changes in a category must be notified to MIAFTR 
and to any party whom the affected vehicle has been transferred as soon as 
reasonably practical following re-classification. And, It is essential that loss 
information on MIAFTR is accurate and up to date. I will leave it for UKI to take any 
action they feel is appropriate in light of this code. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr R or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require UKI to pay Mr R a fair valuation for his car 
and pay additional compensation.
Following my provisional decision, UKI have responded to say they have no further 
comments. Mr R has responded and provided an ombudsmans decision which he says 
refers to the price increase of cars over the last two years. Mr R says the ombudsman 
comments that prices in adverts do represent the actual sale price. Mr R has also provided 
an email sent to UKI which shows cars similar to his car advertised for between £21,990 to 
£23,000. Mr R has also provided evidence of enquiries he has made to try and locate a 
similar car and the availability of cars similar to his being limited. Mr R also says Ive 
commented that he hasnt showed our service enough adverts of cars at a higher price.
Mr R also believes there was an opportunity to challenge the write-off categorisation of his 
car. Mr R has provided information which shows his car is still showing as a Category N 
write-off. Mr R also disagrees with the remedy being awarded.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I believe are the key issues. I wish to reassure Mr R Ive 
read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point 
or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
I have looked at the ombudsman decision Mr R refers to but the first point I would make is 
that each complaint is looked at on its own facts. I can see the ombudsman does say that more recently the advertised price has been a true reflection of the selling price due to high 
demand. However, the ombudsman in this case does take into account the trade guides and 
decides a fair valuation as being the average of the two highest trade guide valuations. In 
this case, Ive taken the same approach by considering the average of the trade guide 
valuations  which I think is fair in the circumstances of this case.  
I have taken into account Mr Rs comments and the information he has provided about 
advertised prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be  and thats why we find a valuation based 
on the trade guides to be persuasive. I do wish to clarify my provisional decision didnt say 
Mr R hadnt provided enough adverts, but rather, the adverts didnt persuade me that the 
trade guides are unreliable for a car like Mr Rs. 
I understand Mr R believes, had UKI not prematurely disposed of his car, he couldve 
challenged the categorisation. I note Mr R believes there wouldve been merit in raising such 
a challenge. I do acknowledge Mr R feels very strongly about this, but I havent seen any 
persuasive or compelling evidence that the Category B assigned to Mr Rs car was incorrect 
or that Mr R wouldve successfully challenged the categorisation. I do understand Mr R feels 
he should be awarded additional compensation for this, but I havent seen any evidence 
which challenges the engineers assessment of a Category B. 
I do acknowledge Mr Rs concern about the write-off category not being updated. I would 
again remind UKI of their obligations under the relevant Code of Practice Ive referred to in 
my provisional decision. 
I have carefully considered Mr Rs points about the redress being awarded and Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr R but Im not persuaded the remedy is unreasonable. Mr R has replaced his 
car and even if UKI had paid the fair valuation of £18,715 at the time they paid the 
settlement, I cant see this would still have matched the advertised prices Mr R had provided 
at the time. So, I cant say the shortfall of £545 has caused Mr R to miss out on the 
opportunity to replace his car at the time. I agree the price of second-hand cars has 
increased over the last two years and, while I acknowledge Mr R wasnt able to replace the 
exact car he lost, he has replaced it. So, its for this reason as well as what Ive already 
mentioned here, that I dont believe its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for UKI to 
meet a valuation based on todays prices.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that UKI havent carried out a fair valuation of Mr Rs car, they led him to 
believe his car wouldnt be moved until his claim was settled and their error has led to the 
car being sold as a Category N write-off. So, UKI should pay Mr R £545 together with 8% 
simple interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement. And, to reflect the significant 
impact caused by their errors, in addition to the £200 already paid, they should pay a further 
£200 to bring the total compensation to £400. UKI should provide Mr R with a certificate 
showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman