DRN-4295142
The complaint
Mr R complains that Crediva Limited incorrectly recorded a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in a provisional 
decision. I said: 
On 20 February 2023, Mr R contacted Crediva after checking his credit file via a third party 
business Ill call F. Mr R advised that hed found someone elses CCJ recorded on his credit 
file. Mr R explained that hed never held an account with the business that was reporting the
CCJ and that it had been incorrectly applied to his credit file. Mr R complained to Crediva 
and said the CCJ meant he was unable to obtain a mortgage.
Crediva sent Mr R a final response and said it would investigate the CCJ to confirm whether 
it should be removed. The CCJ was removed from Mr Rs credit file on 21 March 2023. Mr R 
referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In Mr Rs 
complaint submission he explained that during the period the CCJ was incorrectly recorded 
on his credit file hed been unable to obtain a mortgage.
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint. The investigator said that whilst Mr R hadnt 
supplied any evidence to show the CCJ had impacted his ability to secure a mortgage, they 
accepted it was recorded on his credit file in error and likely to have caused problems. The 
investigator recommended that Crediva pay Mr R £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr R accepted the investigators recommendations but Crediva asked to appeal. Crediva 
said that its records showed no businesses had carried out a credit search for lending 
purposes in the period the CCJ was incorrectly noted on Mr Rs credit file. And Crediva said 
that the first time Mr R had accessed his Crediva credit file was via a third party business, F, 
on 14 February 2023. Crediva argued that whilst the CCJ had been recorded in error, no 
person or organisation had accessed its credit file for Mr R during the period in question so it 
didnt agree there was an impact due to the mistrace.
I recently asked Mr R to supply a copy of his credit file along with anything from a mortgage 
advisor that showed hed been declined. Mr R responded and explained mortgage advisors 
had reviewed his credit file over the phone but hadnt made any direct applications on his 
behalf. Mr R also said hed been prevented from applying for a mortgage while the CCJ 
remained on his credit file and that it took several months to be removed.
I also asked Crediva to supply some additional information. Crediva has forwarded systems
information to show the dates Mr Rs credit file was accessed and the party that accessed it.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Credivas credit file for Mr R contained a CCJ that related to someone 
else. Credivas explained the issue was caused by a mistrace by another business and after 
it investigated confirmed the CCJ related to a third party  not Mr R.
Mr R first checked his Crediva credit file via F on 14 February 2023. Mr R contacted Crediva 
about the issue on 20 February 2023 and its confirmed the CCJ was removed from his 
credit file on 21 March 2023, around a month later. I agree that the CCJ was recorded in 
error, but Im satisfied Crediva needed to carry out some checks to verify what Mr R told it. 
And I think the time it took to carry out those checks and remove the CCJ is reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr R has explained that he was unable to obtain a mortgage during the period the CCJ was 
recorded on his credit file with Crediva. But Crediva says that whilst the CCJ was present, no 
one looked at the credit file it holds for Mr R until he checked it via F on 14 February 2023. I 
recently asked Crediva to supply systems information to support this point. And its 
information shows Mr Rs credit file was first checked via F on 14 February 2023 as claimed. 
Theres no evidence to show Mr R or any other business or lender checked the Crediva 
credit file before that date.
I can understand why Mr R feels the CCJ showing on his Crediva credit file could have 
influenced the information he was given by mortgage advisors. But in this decision Im only 
looking at the credit file maintained by Crediva. And as theres no evidence Credivas credit 
file was accessed in the period before 14 February 2023, Im unable to draw a link between 
the incorrectly reported CCJ and any information Mr R mayve been given about obtaining a 
mortgage.
The investigator asked Crediva to pay Mr R £250, in part to reflect difficulties he experienced 
in obtaining a mortgage. But I havent found evidence that shows mortgage discussions 
Mr R mayve had were impacted by the CCJ prior to 14 February 2023. And the CCJ was 
removed around a month later which resolved the situation. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I 
havent found grounds to award £250.
I can see the situation has caused Mr R some distress and inconvenience and understand 
he felt unable to proceed with attempts to obtain a mortgage while the situation was ongoing 
and CCJ remained on his credit file. I can also understand that finding someone elses CCJ 
on Mr Rs credit file came as a shock and caused him a reasonable level of concern. So 
whilst I havent been persuaded to award £250, I think a settlement of £100 more fairly 
reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr R. Unless I see any new information that 
changes my mind, I intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint and tell Crediva to pay him £100.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted to make before I 
made my final decision. Both Mr R and Crediva confirmed they were willing to proceed in 
line with the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision, Im going to proceed and uphold 
Mr Rs complaint on the same basis. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Crediva Limited to pay him £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman