DRN-3021006
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as C complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to 
terminate their business account and rescind their loan which was granted under the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme.
Miss S, Cs director, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, C applied for a loan with HSBC under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme. 
The loan was approved, and on 16 May 2020, C received £15,000 of loan funds into its 
account. A few days later, the director of C at the time complained to HSBC because she 
couldnt access the BBL money. HSBC had blocked Cs account in March 2020, which is 
why the money couldnt be accessed.
In July 2020, the director of C resigned and Miss S, who represents C in this complaint, took 
over as director. HSBC were not informed of the director change.
Following their review, HSBC decided to end their relationship with C and rescind the loan. 
HSBC said the BBL was automatically approved, but after their review they found C wasnt 
eligible for it. Before theyd communicated their decision to C, the ex-director requested to 
close Cs account in December 2020. The ex-director was the sole signatory on Cs account 
and therefore HSBC accepted her request. Cs account was closed in January 2021.
In closing Cs account, HSBC used the money in it to pay off an outstanding card debt which 
belonged to C. The rest of the money, including funds from the BBL, was outsourced in 
error.
Cs original complaint was made by the ex-director because the account was blocked. Since 
the complaint was raised, the current director, Miss S, has complained about the BBL funds 
being released when the account was closed. While HSBC have confirmed they shouldnt 
have released the BBL funds, they have confirmed they wont pursue the debt from C  and 
thats because they didnt release the money to C, so it hasnt benefited from it.
The investigator didnt uphold Cs complaint. She said, based on the evidence shed seen, 
she was satisfied that HSBC were entitled to rescind the loan and close Cs account. The 
investigator also found that it was Cs responsibility to inform HSBC of any change of 
director. C didnt do that and as the ex-director remained the sole signatory on Cs account, 
HSBC hadnt done anything wrong by accepting her request to close Cs account. The 
investigator recognised HSBCs error with releasing the money left in Cs account but as 
HSBC had confirmed they wouldnt pursue C for the debt, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss S, on behalf of C, didnt agree. She wanted to know where the money had been 
released to and wanted HSBC to give a reason why they decided to rescind the loan and 
close the account. Miss S also said she was a signatory on the account prior to the closure.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything differently. Ive explained my 
reasons further below.
Account block and review
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing and blocking Cs account.
HSBC are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers and 
its often appropriate to request more information when doing so. Im pleased to see HSBC 
attempted to contact C while carrying out their review to ask for the information they needed 
relating to certain payments made into Cs account. It appears that C didnt respond to 
HSBCs requests, which is why the review took several months, and at the end of it HSBC 
made the decision to no longer offer C business. This was a decision HSBC were entitled to 
make.
Account closure
Prior to communicating their decision to close Cs account, HSBC received a request from 
the sole signatory on Cs account to close it  and accepted that request. I dont consider 
HSBC did anything wrong by accepting this closure request. I say that because while I 
recognise Miss S believes she was also a signatory on the account at the time the ex-
director requested the account closure, I cant agree. Having reviewed the bank mandate, it 
appears Miss S was listed as a secondary user on Business Internet Banking. While this 
would have given Miss S some transactional authority for the account, it wouldnt make her a 
signatory in the way she has described. So, its reasonable HSBC accepted the request.
HSBCs terms and conditions state that it is Cs responsibility to tell HSBC when a director 
changes and to provide a new mandate. Based on the evidence Ive seen; Miss S didnt do 
this which is why the ex-director remained on Cs account. I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for this as they werent aware of the change.
Withdrawal of the BBL
When HSBC decided to close Cs account, they also decided to rescind the loan money. C 
hadnt been able to access the loan money prior to this due to the account block, and 
therefore the full loan balance was still available in Cs account. 
Under the BBL agreement, HSBC have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances. I appreciate C wants to know the reason why HSBC decided to rescind the 
loan, but HSBC arent obliged to give a reason to C. HSBC have shared information with our 
service that we deem to be commercially sensitive and therefore its information I cant share 
with C. But Id like to reassure C that Ive considered HSBCs actions and Im satisfied their 
decision in this case was fair.
I recognise HSBC used some of the money in Cs account to repay a card debt which C 
owed. The account terms state;
If you have money in one of your accounts (except for trust, client or joint accounts), 
we may set it off against any amount you owe us which is due for payment on other 
accounts (including money you owe on a joint account) so it reduces or repays the amount you owe us. We'll only do this with accounts in your name and after we have 
checked that you have enough left in your accounts to cover essential living costs.
Therefore, Im satisfied, based on these terms, that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in using 
the funds C held in its account to settle the debt owed.
Release of the remaining funds 
The remaining funds in the account should have been offset against the BBL amount which 
was owed. HSBC have admitted that this didnt happen so the full remaining funds in the 
account were released. As HSBC made the error, theyve confirmed they wont pursue C for 
the BBL debt. I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate C wants to know where the money was released and how much it was, but I 
dont consider this is relevant. I say that because C isnt being pursued for the debt, so it 
doesnt impact Cs position.
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when reviewing Cs account and making the decision to rescind the loan. I also consider 
HSBCs acceptance of the account closure was reasonable as the request came from the 
sole signatory on the account, and to HSBCs knowledge, the director of C. HSBC made an 
error in not setting off the funds left in Cs account against the BBL debt, but as they wont be 
pursuing C for the debt, I dont consider this puts C in a detrimental position. 
So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman