DRN-3222928
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse in full the money 
she transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
On 3 December 2021, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I explained why, 
based on what Id seen so far, I was intending to uphold the complaint. I wanted to give both 
parties the change to respond to my findings. I have copied my provisional decision below 
and it forms part of this final decision. 
What happened
Mrs C was looking to invest £50,000. She searched online and found a suitable 
investment  a one-year bond with a fixed interest rate of 5%. After completing some 
details online, she was contacted by someone claiming to represent an investment 
company. Though Mrs C hadnt heard of the company previously, her daughter informed 
her that she knew someone who worked for them. Unfortunately for Mrs C, shed actually 
been contacted by a fraudster who was impersonating a genuine financial business.
The fraudster provided Mrs C with some limited documentation outlining the investment 
and, she says, took her through a process which mimicked the identity checks that a real 
business would carry out.
Mrs C attempted to make a single £50,000 payment in a branch of HSBC but was told 
that this wasnt possible without incurring fees. Instead she made five £10,000 
payments between 14 and 22 November 2019. Four payments were made over the 
telephone and a final payment was made in branch.
HSBCs records show Mrs C spoke to HSBCs security team on 18 November 2019  
prior to making the fourth payment. During two separate conversations HSBCs advisors 
asked about the payments  checking whether the payment details had been obtained 
in person, but making very limited enquiries about what the payments were for.
It wasnt until nearly a year later, when Mrs C tried to contact the fraudster about the 
maturity of the bond that the scam came to light. It was reported to HSBC on 8 October 
2020 by which time all of Mrs Cs money had been removed from the recipients account.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC accepted that it 
had failed to provide Mrs C with an Effective Warning (a requirement under the Code), so 
it
refunded 50% of her loss. However, it said it wasnt liable for the rest as Mrs C had 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment and had been grossly 
negligent.
One of our investigators upheld Mrs Cs complaint. They thought the correspondence Mrs 
C received from the fraudsters would have been convincing and as Mrs C hadnt heard of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), it wasnt reasonable to have expected her to 
refer to it in advance of making the payments.
HSBC disagreed, it said a warning existed about the genuine company having been 
cloned before Mrs C made the payments. While it accepted she may not have heard of 
the FCA, it would have expected her to do a considerable amount of research and seek 
independent advice, given the sums involved. HSBC maintained that Mrs C had been 
grossly negligent.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should HSBC have refunded Mrs C in full under the provisions of the CRM Code?
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mrs C had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine and whether she was 
grossly negligent. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I 
am not persuaded that she failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to 
choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
HSBC, in their response to our investigators view, argued that Mrs C has been grossly 
negligent. While there is no single definition for gross negligence  Mrs C would have 
had to have shown a serious disregard to an obvious risk. At other times HSBC appears 
to argue that Mrs C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments. 
While the tests are different, the threshold for the latter is not as high and, in this case, I 
dont think its met regardless. So, to be clear, Ill principally address whether Mrs C had 
a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of the money she sent was legitimate.
Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs C ever doubted the investment opportunity was 
genuine, nor that anyone, including HSBC, ever suggested that it was. As such, Im 
persuaded that Mrs C did make the transaction believing the recipient to be legitimate.
But, I also need to be persuaded that Mrs C reasonably held that belief, taking into 
account Mrs Cs characteristics and the sophistication of the scam. And, her 
characteristics are relevant here  she doesnt appear to be someone with any great 
knowledge of the financial world  including how it is regulated.
I understand HSBCs point that it would be reasonable for a person independently 
investing a significant sum of money, to first research not just the specific investment 
they were interested in, but also how investments work and are protected.
However, I also note that the product Mrs C purchased was a very straightforward one  
it was (if it had existed) just a fixed-term savings bond which would have posed no risk to 
her capital and functions very similarly to a simple savings account. I can understand 
why Mrs C wouldnt have considered herself to be an investor or felt she needed to do a 
significant amount of research before going ahead.
Im satisfied, on balance, that her belief she was dealing with a genuine company was 
reasonable too. Though the paperwork she appears to have been provided with was 
quitelimited it looked reasonably professional. The email correspondence Ive seen has one 
or two peculiarities in its formatting and content, but also has quite convincing and 
professional looking features  such as the FCA and FSCS logos and regulatory 
information about the genuine investment company (though I appreciate Mrs C doesnt 
appear to have understood the significance of this information). The emails also link to a 
website (no longer accessible) and the fraudster appears to have registered an email 
domain which is very similar to that of the genuine company. So, I dont think the 
communication Mrs C received should have led her to be particularly concerned about 
whether she was dealing with a genuine financial business.
Mrs C has said that she saw other products with similar or even higher interest rates at 
the time. Im not sure about this, a search online of articles about the most attractive 
fixed-rate bonds in late 2019, dont advertise anything with a higher interest rate than 3% 
(and even then, often for longer terms). So, I think the rate of return is what made the 
investment attractive to Mrs C, but I dont think, considering her investment experience, it 
was so high as she ought to have thought it was too good to be true. And neither were 
there other clear warning signs that challenged or ought to have challenged her belief 
that the investment was genuine.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs C was an inexperienced investor who believed she was 
dealing with a genuine investment company to purchase a simple financial product. Im 
satisfied that, considering her knowledge and experience, her belief that she was 
engaging in legitimate transactions was reasonable (even if there were other things she 
could have done which might have revealed the scam). Consequently, under the 
provisions of the CRM Code, HSBC should refund the remaining 50% of her loss.
Should HSBC have done more to protect Mrs C from financial harm from fraud?
I am also mindful that when Mrs C made these payments, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Each payment Mrs C made to the fraudsters was twice the amount of the next largest 
payment shed made in the previous six months and, despite some history of investing 
her capital in genuine savings products, I think the payments did stand out as being very 
unusual, such that HSBC ought to have contacted Mrs C before allowing the payments 
to go ahead.
Indeed, HSBC did eventually find the payments to be suspicious  contacting Mrs C 
before the fourth payment was made. I think they should have done this when the first 
payment was made  or even in the branch when Mrs C was attempting to make a 
single larger payment. Nevertheless, the telephone calls provide useful evidence of how 
those conversations might have gone and, in particular, how open Mrs C would have 
been about what she was doing. In the calls Ive heard Mrs C mentions that the 
payments were for a bond, but the bank didnt ask any follow up questions around this. 
Mrs C was not given a cover story, so had she been asked further questions, I think she 
would have answered them honestly.
At the time, HSBC should have been well aware of the possibility of legitimate financial 
businesses being impersonated or cloned. And, given that scams of this nature often target people seeking fixed-rate bonds, such as this one, Mrs Cs mention of investing in 
such a product ought to have prompted further questions.
It would have been straightforward for HSBC to inform Mrs C of the steps she needed to 
protect herself against this kind of fraud  specifically that she ought to find the firm on 
the FCA register and contact it through the contact details listed there to confirm the 
existence, or otherwise, of her investment. HSBC would also have been able to advise 
her how to find warnings about fraudsters impersonating this particular firm, a warning 
which existed at the time Mrs C made the payments. I think Mrs C would have taken 
these steps and established that she was dealing with fraudsters. Consequently I think 
the loss would have been prevented.
This additional finding has only a limited impact on my overall conclusion, but it does 
mean that HSBC should pay interest from the date of loss rather than the date of 
settlement (including on amounts already refunded).
Turning to the interest, I think that an award of 8% would represent significant betterment 
to Mrs C  given that I understand her intention was to invest the money in such a way 
that her capital was not put at risk and such a rate of return would be unachievable 
without doing so. On the other hand, I dont think that paying interest at the account rate 
of her current account (which I understand to be 0%) is fair either, for essentially the 
same reasons. The evidence does not suggest that Mrs C would have left her money in 
that account but invested it in products similar in nature to the fraudulent investment.
So, I think interest should be calculated using the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed- rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of November 2019 
from the dates of the disputed payments until 21 November 2020 (the date the bond 
would have matured and, had the money been genuinely invested, the likely date it 
would have been available again to Mrs C) and on the same basis but using the rate for 
the month of November 2020 from 22 November 2020 until the date of settlement. I think 
this is the fairest way of, as far as possible, putting Mrs C in the position she would have 
been had the fraud not taken place  that being that she would have likely purchased a 
legitimate one-year fixed rate bond elsewhere and continued to invest her money without 
risking the capital. Interest should be paid on both the amount already refunded and the 
amount yet to be refunded in the way Ive set out below.
My provisional decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it to:
1 Refund the remaining amount lost - £25,000
2 Pay simple interest on that amount at the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of 
November 2019 from the date Mrs C made the payments to 21 November 
2020.
3 Pay interest on the same basis, but using the rate for November 2020, 
from 22 November 2020 to the date of settlement
4 Pay interest on the same basis as in 1, on the £25,000 it has already refunded, 
from the date Mrs C made the payments to the date it refunded the money.
Mrs C said she accepted the provisional decision. HSBC agreed to refund the remaining 
£25,000, but only agreed to pay interest on that amount at the rate Mrs C would have 
achieved had the money remained in her HSBC account. It provided no submissions to 
support this position nor did it challenge the reasoning Ive set out above. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C accepted my provisional decision and HSBC provided no further submissions to 
support its position, I have nothing further to add and my final decision is unchanged from 
the provisional findings Ive set out above.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it to:
1 Refund the remaining amount lost - £25,000
2 Pay simple interest on that amount at the monthly average rate for one-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of 
November 2019 from the date Mrs C made the payments to 21 November 
2020.
3 Pay interest on the same basis, but using the rate for November 2020, 
from 22 November 2020 to the date of settlement
4 Pay interest on the same basis as in 1, on the £25,000 it has already refunded, 
from the date Mrs C made the payments to the date it refunded the money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman