DRN-1770679
 
The complaint
Ms H's complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc ('HSBC') mis-sold her a decreasing life 
mortgage protection policy and an unemployment/income protection policy in 2008. Both 
were associated with the mortgage (for a shared ownership property) she purchased from 
HSBC at the time. She says both were unnecessary - contrary to HSBC stating the opposite 
at the time - and were unsuitable.
What happened
Ms H says she met the HSBC adviser in person in January 2008 and that she was told the 
meeting was necessary because her proposed property purchase was based on shared 
ownership. She says she sought HSBC's service to arrange and provide the mortgage;  she 
knew the type of mortgage she wanted and did not  want advice in that respect; she sought 
no other advice/service from HSBC and did not want mortgage or unemployment protection; 
the adviser said she required the mortgage protection and unemployment protection policies 
in order to get the mortgage, so she proceeded with them; upon revising her mortgage 
arrangements (and taking advice) in 2018 she learnt she had been wrongly advised and that 
neither policy was necessary or suitable.
HSBC disputes the complaint. It has provided fact find evidence from 2008 and a copy of the 
recommendation made to Ms H in 2008. In the main, it says Ms H wanted and agreed with 
mortgage protection; its recommendation suitably matched her need and provided cover in 
which the sum assured and term matched the mortgage; critical illness cover ('CIC') was 
discussed but declined by Ms H; the risk of redundancy was also discussed, the adviser 
recommended a suitable unemployment protection policy (covering the mortgage 
repayments and related costs) in this respect and Ms H agreed; neither policy was 
presented as a condition of the mortgage and evidence from the mortgage offer supports 
this; both policies were suitable for Ms H.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld 
- for reasons similar to those given by HSBC. Ms H disagreed with this outcome. She 
maintained her key submissions (as summarised above) and asked for an ombudsman's 
decision. She also questioned whether (or not) we had been given full - as opposed to 
selective - disclosure of relevant documents by HSBC. The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold Ms H's 
complaint.
Documents shared with this service include the fact find, the recommendation to Ms H, the 
application (and certificates) for the policies and the mortgage offer (offer letter and offer 
document) - all from 2008. Overall and on balance, I do not consider them to have been selectively disclosed or to be insufficient for the task  of determining the complaint. I am 
persuaded that we have access to enough evidence to address the issues raised by Ms H.
The first issue relates to the purpose for the meeting between both parties in 2008. Ms H 
insists she sought only mortgage arrangement/provision. She objects to HSBC's claim that 
she also wanted mortgage protection. The fact find evidence suggests there could be more 
common ground between the parties on this issue than otherwise. HSBC records that Ms H 
wanted mortgage planning and protection, however the document also says she wanted to 
"... concentrate on mortgage borrowing ...". 
On balance, I consider the document to be reliable; it refers to matters such as CIC and 
retirement planning and records that Ms H wanted neither (which, with regards to CIC, 
matches what Ms H has told us); it also refers to income/unemployment protection and 
records that Ms H initially declined this too  (which also matches what she has told us); 
overall its contents appear to be credible.
It is probable that both the arrangement of the mortgage and mortgage protection were the 
agreed subject matters of the meeting. Even if the latter was not a pre-determined purpose 
for Ms H, it was discussed at the meeting and recommended. As the investigator pointed 
out, the key issue is whether (or not) the recommendation (and that of the 
unemployment/income protection policy) was suitable.
There is no evidence in the fact find document that Ms H was told the mortgage and 
unemployment protection policies were conditions or  requirements for the mortgage. The 
same applies to the mortgage offer letter and offer document - the latter actually (and 
expressly) confirms that the only insurance related condition for the mortgage was buildings 
insurance and that there was no requirement for her to purchase that from HSBC (so it could 
have been purchased elsewhere). The same also applies to the recommendation letter to 
Ms H. Ms H's assertion that she was led to believe the policies were required for the 
mortgage is not supported by available evidence.
In terms of suitability, the fact find records that the objective for the mortgage protection was 
to meet the risk of Ms H passing away during the mortgage term and to provide security in 
the property for her dependent children in such circumstances. Given that she was solely 
responsible for the mortgage and for her children I consider this objective plausible and 
reasonable. 
Despite Ms H's initial reluctance, evidence suggests she subsequently shared the objective 
of having unemployment/income protection to meet the risk of a loss of employment income. 
If she did not, it is reasonable to expect that she would have retained her initial reluctance 
and/or objected to the recommendation in this respect - and I have seen evidence of neither. 
I also consider this objective to have been reasonable, and not uncommon in mortgage 
arrangements.
As the adviser explained to Ms H, the mortgage protection policy matched the sum and term 
of the mortgage, it provided the reducing amount of life cover for the borrowing and it 
provided for a lump sum that could be used to pay off the mortgage in the event of her 
death. The unemployment/income protection policy also matched the term of the mortgage, 
it provided cover (for the mortgage related payments) limited to 12 months and the 
recommendation letter - which Ms H does not appear to have disputed at the time - says this 
was acceptable to her.
Both policies met the purposes for which they were set up and matched the relevant 
characteristics of the mortgage. Based on the fact find information, their premiums also appear to have been affordable for Ms H. Overall, on balance and for the reasons given 
above I consider that both policies were suitable for her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms H's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman