DRN-4348924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint arises out of a claim they made under their Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) legal expenses insurance policy, which was declined.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the policy they were sold. They say that Aviva are 
responsible for this.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S took out a legal expenses insurance policy through a broker based in 
Scotland, where they live. They went on to renew the cover annually. The policy was 
underwritten by Aviva. 
In 2022, Mr and Mrs S made a claim on the policy, which was declined by Aviva. They said 
that at that point it became clear to them that the policy terms had not been explained to 
them when they took it out, and that if they had been they wouldnt have taken it out at all. In 
addition, they said the policy wasnt suitable for their needs and was inappropriate for legal 
actions subject to Scottish law.
Aviva considered Mr and Mrs S complaint and explained that they werent the seller of the 
policy, so they werent responsible for its suitability for their needs or the information they 
were given at the point of sale. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S referred the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator concluded that their complaint shouldnt be upheld because Aviva wasnt 
involved in the sale of the policy at all; the broker that sold the policy was. As such she said 
that Aviva had done nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs S dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. This is why.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S arent satisfied with the response they received from Aviva to 
their complaint, but the matters theyre unhappy about relate to the obligations of a seller 
when selling their legal expenses insurance policy, rather than the insurer who underwrites 
it. Sometimes the seller and broker of those policies are one and the same. But thats not the 
case here. Mr and Mrs S took out the policy from a local broker. So, the obligation was on 
that person or entity to provide them with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
type of cover they were taking out- and not Aviva.
I know that Mr and Mrs S feel that Aviva hold some responsibility to them as the insurer of 
the product being sold. And that might be right if their complaint was about the claim they 
made, but its not. Their complaint is about the clarity of the information they were given and 
the fact that it wasnt suitable for them or complainants bringing claims subject to Scottish 
law more generally. Thats not something we can consider against Aviva because they arent 
responsible for selling the policy as well as the obligations that come with doing so.
Mr and Mrs S feel that the claims process wasnt set out in detail in the policy itself so they 
didnt understand the journey they would have to follow. Again, that information wouldve 
been supplied to them by their broker- so if they remain unhappy, they are entitled to raise a 
complaint with them.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are concerned about the content of the policy Aviva sells more 
generally but thats not something I can consider. My remit is to decide complaints specific to 
Mr and Mrs S circumstances where the party they are bringing their complaint against is 
responsible. I cant step into the shoes of the regulator to deal with what Mr and Mrs S 
consider to be breaches of FCA principles in the design and marketing of the policy. Thats 
simply not my role. Equally its not my role to provide them with data about how often the 
Financial Ombudsman Service upholds legal expenses insurance complaints more 
generally. Doing so, wouldnt in my view provide them with any helpful information nor would 
it add anything to determining the specific complaint theyve brought.
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr and Mrs S should note that complaints about the suitability of 
an insurance product do amount to an allegation of mis-selling. So, I dont accept their 
complaint has been wrongly considered as this either by the investigator or by me in this 
decision, given the nature of the complaints they have made.
Finally, I wont be determining the suitability of this particular insurance product for litigants 
bringing claims subject to Scottish law because I can only consider Mr and Mrs S specific 
complaint and not potential complaints by other potential complainants. Mr and Mrs S are 
entitled to raise the matter with the Financial Conduct Authority, should they remain 
concerned. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman