DRN-3495879
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain about AWP P&C SAs (AWP) decision to decline their claim 
under their home emergency insurance.  
What happened
Mr M and Ms M noticed a leak coming through the ceiling of their extension on 13 October 
2021 so they instructed a roofing company to carry out repairs. The roofing company carried 
out the repairs the same day and charged Mr M and Ms M £180. Mr M and Ms M then 
contacted AWP the following day to say they noticed a leak the day before and had 
instructed a roofing company to carry out repairs. They explained the work that had been 
carried out and asked AWP to reimburse the £180 theyd paid. Mr M and Ms M explained 
they appreciate AWP may have wanted to instruct their own roofing company to complete 
the work but they needed someone out the same day to prevent further damage to their 
home. AWP declined the claim, so Mr M and Ms M complained about their decision. 
AWP responded and explained Mr M and Ms Ms home emergency policy is in place for any 
sudden and unforeseen circumstance which would deem their home unsafe or insecure. 
They said Mr M and Ms M must make contact with AWP first and within 48 hours of noticing 
the home emergency. AWP said they had considered Mr M and Ms Ms claim in line with the 
policy terms and it had therefore been declined correctly.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr M and Ms M and AWP on 29 April 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows: 
     
My starting point is Mr M and Ms Ms home emergency policy. This sets out the 
terms and conditions and, under a section headed General conditions it says We 
will only pay the benefits under this policy if you contact us first within 48 hours of 
discovering the emergency. And, the policy goes further to set out the steps a 
customer must take when making a claim and says It is important to remember that 
you must phone [insurance product provider] first. Please do not make any 
arrangements yourself as we cannot refund any costs if you do not get our prior 
authorisation.   
Theres no dispute here that Mr M and Ms M instructed their own roofing company to 
carry out repairs without contacting AWP first or seeking their authorisation to use 
their own roofing company. The terms and conditions of their policy requires them to 
report any emergency to AWP within 48 hours of discovering it  and I can see 
theyve done that. The issue here though is that they havent reported it to AWP first. 
So, Ive looked into whether AWP have acted fairly in declining the claim on this 
basis.   
I understand Mr M and Ms M say they instructed their own roofing company as they 
needed someone out the same day to prevent further damage. I understand why 
they wanted to minimise any damage but the fact is there has been a breach of one 
of the terms and conditions here as they didnt contact AWP first. That said, Ive 
considered relevant provisions of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) here. Firstly, ICOBS: 8.1.1 R says an insurer must not unreasonably reject 
a claim and, secondly, ICOBS: 8.1.2A G sets out the circumstances where it would 
be unreasonable for an insurer to reject a claim. This section refers to the Insurance 
Act 2015. The relevant provision which applies here is S.11 of the Insurance Act 
2015 which refers to terms which arent relevant to the actual loss. This goes further 
to say: 
11. (1)This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance, 
other than a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to 
reduce the risk of one or more of the following
(a)loss of a particular kind,
(b)loss at a particular location,
(c)loss at a particular time.
(2)If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not rely 
on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the contract for 
the loss if the insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3)The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the 
term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred.
Im required to take account of the law, and regulatory rules, when reaching fair and 
reasonable decisions and so its right that I take account of both ICOBS and the 
Insurance Act 2015 when reaching my decision. And, in summary, this says, if there 
has been non-compliance by a customer of a term within the policy, a claim rejection 
by an insurer would be unreasonable unless the circumstances of the claim were 
connected to the non-compliance of the term. 
So, applying this to the facts of this complaint, I can see Mr M and Ms M first 
discovered the leak on 13 October and they arranged the repairs themselves and 
then reported it to AWP the following day. So, while this satisfies one limb of the 
relevant term in the policy to report it to AWP within 48 hours, it doesnt satisfy the 
second limb  which is the requirement to report it to AWP first. 
When applying ICOBS: 8.1.2A G and S.11 of the Insurance Act 2015, its clear a loss 
has occurred and the term requiring Mr M and Ms M to report it to AWP first hasnt 
been complied with. So, AWP can only rely on Mr M and Ms Ms breach of this term 
to justify their decision to decline the claim if their non-compliance has increased the 
risk of the loss which occurred. Looking at the information, I dont think thats the 
case here. 
The invoice from the roofing company shows they repaired the damage the same 
day Mr M and Ms M discovered the damage  so, within 48 hours. While I agree they 
didnt report it to AWP first, I cant say this non-compliance with the term of the policy 
is connected to the circumstances of the claim. 
Mr M and Ms M confirm the leak stopped so the damage costs were mitigated. I cant 
see that, Mr M and Ms M not reporting the problem to AWP first, has resulted in the 
loss occurring or the resulting damage becoming worse. Im therefore not persuaded 
Mr M and Ms Ms non-compliance with the term increased the risk of the loss 
occurring in the particular circumstances of this case. In accordance with ICOBS and 
the Insurance Act 2015, AWP is unable to exclude or limit their liability under the 
policy. I see no reason to depart from the law here and as such Im not persuaded 
AWP has applied their terms fairly when considering Mr M and Ms Ms claim.   So, subject to any further comments from Mr M and Ms M or AWP, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Mr M and Ms M responded to say they have no further 
comments to make. AWP responded and said, while they take on board my reasons, they 
would like to refer to a section on page 3 of the policy. This says We aim to provide rapid, 
expert help if you suffer an emergency arising from an incident covered under this policy. We 
will arrange for one of our list of approved contractors to attend and take actions to
stabilise the situation and resolve the emergency.
Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
In relation to the section AWP have referred to, I note this sets out the steps AWP will take 
following an insured event. I cant say this changes my decision as the issue Im considering 
here is whether AWP acted fairly in declining the claim based on the specific term requiring 
Mr M and Ms M to report it to AWP first. And, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think its fair 
for them to decline the claim on this basis. 
Im satisfied its clear within the policy that Mr M and Ms M needed to contact AWP first, 
before incurring any costs. This is so that AWP can check the policy covers the situation 
being claimed for and manage the costs for anything covered by the policy  and AWP 
werent given an opportunity to do this first. As this is the case, I recognise that AWP acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. However, my 
remit here is also to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
And, based on what Ive seen, and taking into account the relevant law and regulatory rules, 
I cant say Mr M and Ms Ms non-compliance with the term increased the risk of the loss 
occurring or the resulting damage becoming worse in the particular circumstances of this 
case.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AWP have acted unreasonably in declining Mr M and Ms Ms claim 
on the basis of their non-compliance of the term of the policy requiring them to report it to 
AWP first. So, AWP should now reconsider Mr M and Ms Ms claim further, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make any other 
further enquiries they feel are necessary but I dont think its reasonable for them to use the 
reason they have to decline the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AWP P&C SA must reconsider Mr M and   
Ms Ms claim in light of the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman