DRN-3890901
The complaint
Mrs D complains about John Lewis Financial Services Limiteds response to her attempts to
recover money shed paid using her credit card for a holiday that didnt go ahead.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs D made a holiday booking through a third party travel agent T. She 
paid a deposit of £847.10 using her John Lewis credit card. The holiday comprised flights 
and a cruise, which T arranged with separate suppliers. The balance was due approximately 
three months before the holiday was due to start in June 2020. But shortly after Mrs D made 
her booking, the Covid 19 pandemic began to have an impact on daily life  including holiday 
arrangements such as Mrs D had planned.
When T contacted Mrs D in March 2020 to say that the balance was due, she was unwilling 
to pay due to the uncertainty. The supplier had already cancelled a number of scheduled 
cruises and Mrs D was concerned that her holiday would be affected. T wasnt willing to vary 
the arrangements and cancelled the booking, retaining Mrs Ds deposit.
Mrs D sought to recover her money from John Lewis as her card provider. But John Lewis 
said it couldnt help. It didnt think raising a chargeback for the deposit would be successful, 
saying there was nothing to show a refund was due. The reason the holiday hadnt gone 
ahead was because Mrs D hadnt paid T the balance when due.
Mrs D also attempted to claim directly from John Lewis using the connected lender liability 
provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). However, John 
Lewis said that in addition to the above, it had no liability for the alleged breach of contract. 
This was on the basis that an essential section 75 element  that the transaction was made 
under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  was missing due to the involvement of T, who 
was not the supplier of the cruise.
Although Mrs D was unhappy with John Lewiss response and raised a complaint, the card 
provider wasnt minded to change its stance. It acknowledged delays in reviewing Mrs Ds 
claim and paid her £100 to compensate her for this. But Mrs D remained dissatisfied and 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that John Lewis reimburse the £847.10 Mrs D had paid as a 
deposit, with interest. He didnt agree with its view on section 75 liability and felt a claim 
based on the holiday service not going ahead should have been successful, whether under 
section 75 or chargeback. John Lewis didnt agree with this analysis and asked for a review.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision to both parties setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and how I thought matters might best be resolved. In summary, I said:
the circumstances of the transaction met the requirements of section 75, in that they 
enabled Mrs D to make a claim
John Lewis had responded to that claim (and the similar argument that would apply 
under chargeback) to say that the obligation to provide the holiday ended when 
Mrs D didnt pay the balance when due. That had the effect that T was entitled to 
retain Mrs Ds deposit
that position was supported by the contract terms and Association of British Travel 
Agents (ABTA) guidance relating to the pandemic
in light of this I couldnt reasonably require John Lewis to refund Mrs D
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
John Lewis didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional decision. But 
Mrs D did respond. She said, again in summary:
shed paid by credit card so that she had extra protection under section 75, but this 
had turned out not to be the case
it wasnt fair or reasonable that T had been refunded in full when the flight was 
cancelled, but she hadnt received any money back
John Lewis credited her account with £100 telling her this was in recognition of 
delays in dealing with the claim. She considered this an admission of guilt from the 
bank
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs D has said in response to my provisional decision. But I dont 
think shes said anything that offers me a persuasive reason to change the findings I set out 
there and which form part of this decision. In light of her comments, however, I think its 
appropriate to make the following observations.
Section 75 does, in certain situations provide some protection when buying goods and 
services with credit. It enables a like claim to be brought against the credit provider, rather 
than only being able to claim against the supplier where no credit is used.
Its important to remember, however, that the creditor is entitled to defend that claim  
section 75 doesnt provide a guarantee that a claim will be successful. Here, the claim was 
received, considered and defended by John Lewis. Im satisfied that the basis of that 
defence was one John Lewis was entitled to make in the circumstances of this case.
I understand why Mrs D feels that its not fair or reasonable that T gets to keep the money 
she paid despite having been refunded in full for the (rearranged) flight. That, though, is the 
nature of the contract she entered into with T. Its not for me to rewrite that arrangement; my 
role is to say whether I consider John Lewis to have acted fairly and reasonably in dealing 
with Mrs Ds claim. While I appreciate Mrs D remains out of pocket, for the reasons Ive 
previously explained, I consider that it has.
I see no reason to conclude that John Lewiss payment of £100 was made for purposes 
other than the explanation it gave to her. The bank said it was in recognition of delay. I 
accept that explanation.I do realise Mrs D feels hard done by. Shes lost a good deal of money and I can see why to 
her this feels unfair. But that doesnt mean it would be fair for me to transfer that loss to John 
Lewis. I can only require the bank to refund her if it can properly be said to be liable to do so. 
And for the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded 
that this is the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman