DRN-3285702
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as J has complained that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (Jelf) 
didnt give appropriate advice when selling its business protection insurance policy. 
Mr F, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf. 
What happened
J held a business protection insurance policy with Jelf for a number of years. The policy 
renewed each year and in 2020, J claimed on the business interruption section of the policy 
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. The insurer turned down Js claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover. 
J complained to Jelf as it thought Jelf should have properly explained the level of cover 
provided by the policy. 
Jelf said that, in relation to the relevant policy year, they had provided clear information 
ahead of the renewal in June 2019 which set out the cover provided. Jelf said they had 
recommended a policy that was suitable for Js needs and it wasnt reasonable to expect 
them to have anticipated the unprecedented situation caused by Covid-19. 
Unhappy with Jelfs response, J brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Js complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think Jelf had mis-sold Js policy. 
J asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Jelf should have explained the cover in more 
detail as it thought it was covered for any interruption to its business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Js business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Although J has held a policy through Jelf since 2010 Im going to focus my decision on the 
renewal in June 2019 as this is the relevant policy for Js claim. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent 
with them. As this was an advised sale, Jelf also has to take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice, as well as having a general duty to provide information thats clear, 
fair and not misleading. 
J said that in previous years someone from Jelf would visit its premises to discuss the policy. 
However, in later years the renewal took place via email. 
Ive seen the renewal pack that Jelf sent to J in June 2019. This included the renewal 
schedule, policy wording, market presentation and terms of business. The document says 
that Js requirement for business interruption is, loss of income and /or increased costs 
following an insured loss at that property. I can see that Jelf recommended Js policy as it 
was consistent with its demands and needs and Jelf provided relevant information about the 
policy in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. Jelf asked J to get in touch 
immediately if it required any amendments to cover. 
I understand that J assumed that as it was covered for business interruption that this would 
cover J if its business was interrupted for any reason. However, the policy doesnt cover 
every risk and what is and isnt covered is set out within the policy terms and conditions.
While I can understand J might have wanted cover for business interruption caused by 
diseases I havent seen anything to indicate that it wanted any wider cover that that provided 
by the policy. The renewal schedule clearly set out that the policy covered a specific list of 
diseases and Jelf highlighted this clause as it was a change to the policy wording. I wouldnt 
expect Jelf to have done anything further to highlight to J in June 2019 that the policy didnt 
cover J for losses caused by an unknown disease. 
Jelf specified Js demands and needs in the renewal documents and I havent seen anything
to persuade me that the policy they sold wasnt consistent with those demands and needs.
Jelf also provided information in a way to J that was clear, fair and not misleading. Overall, 
Im satisfied that Jelf took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice when 
renewing Js policy.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome J was hoping for but, having considered the matter
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Jelf to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman