DRN-3697209
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to register a default 
correctly, causing him difficulty in obtaining a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M had a loan account with Nationwide which defaulted in 2012. Nationwide didnt register 
the default at the time and continued to report the account as being in a debt management 
programme. In 2021, Mr M applied for a mortgage. His application was declined and he says 
this was because of adverse information on his credit file. He obtained a copy of his credit 
report, which showed the loan still being reported as being in a debt management 
programme. Mr M complained to Nationwide, saying that this was why his application had 
been declined.
Nationwide responded to the complaint in January 2022. It agreed that it hadnt registered 
the default and that it had been reporting the account incorrectly since August 2012.  
Nationwide accepted that it should have registered the default in August 2012 and that, had 
it done so, the default would have expired in August 2018. Nationwide agreed to correct Mr 
Ms credit file. It said that its own process for amending the account status could take up to 
eight weeks and, after that, it could take a further six weeks for the correction to show on Mr 
Ms credit file.
Nationwide also acknowledged that Mr M had first raised this issue in 2019. It accepted that 
it hadnt handled the complaint correctly then and had delayed in correcting the credit file. It 
apologised and credited Mr Ms account with £175 as compensation for this poor service. It 
also offered to provide letters of repair for Mr M to show to prospective lenders, stating that 
Nationwide had caused errors on his credit file.
But Nationwide didnt agree that it was responsible for losses which Mr M said hed suffered 
as a result of the information on his credit file. It said it wasnt satisfied that its incorrect 
reporting of the account was the sole reason his mortgage application was declined.
Mr M wasnt happy with Nationwides response and brought the complaint to this service in 
around May 2022. Nationwide still hadnt corrected his credit file at that point, due to a staff 
error. Our Investigator thought it should pay Mr M a further £100 because of the ongoing 
delay in correcting its mistake. But he didnt conclude that Nationwide was responsible for 
the mortgage application being declined. Nationwide accepted our Investigators findings. 
But Mr M said that Nationwides mistake was the reason his mortgage application was 
declined. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide accepts that it didnt report the account correctly and that it still hadnt corrected 
this mistake when Mr M referred the complaint to this service. In August 2022, it confirmed 
that this has now been done and that all reference to the loan has been removed from Mr 
Ms credit file. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case.
Nationwide had already paid Mr M compensation of £175 before he brought the complaint to 
this service. I think it should pay some further compensation now because it didnt correct 
the mistake when it said it would, causing Mr M further stress and inconvenience. I think a 
further £100 would be a fair amount to recognise the impact of this delay, bringing the total 
compensation in this complaint to £275.
But Mr M says that his mortgage application was declined because of Nationwides mistake. 
He says hes out of pocket as a result and has been put to a lot of trouble, having to arrange 
a more expensive mortgage with a specialist lender months after his original application. Ive 
carefully considered the information he has provided about this and my findings are below. 
Mr M has provided evidence that a mortgage application was declined in October 2019 
because it failed the credit score. The decision result says there was unacceptable adverse 
credit registered. From the information thats been provided to me, Im satisfied that the 
Nationwide account would have been reporting incorrectly at this time. But I havent seen Mr 
Ms credit report from that time or any other information about the application, so I cant 
safely conclude that it would have been approved but for Nationwides mistake.
Mr M applied for a mortgage again in 2021. I understand that hed been aware of the 
Nationwide reporting error in 2019 but I dont know whether he looked into it again before 
making the application in 2021. His mortgage advisor says that this application was declined 
because it fell outside the lenders policy due to Mr Ms credit score. Im not aware whether 
this decision was appealed. Based on the information Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that 
the application would have succeeded but for the Nationwide reporting. 
Mr M applied to a different lender in around February 2022. By then, Nationwide had 
responded to the complaint and admitted its reporting error. Mr Ms mortgage advisor says 
that, with Nationwides letter acknowledging its mistake and due to other criteria regarding 
the clients needs they were only able to approach one specialist provider. This suggests 
that it wasnt only the Nationwide loan which prevented Mr M from using a mainstream 
lender. So Mr M may have needed to approach a specialist lender in any event.
I note that the application to the specialist lender wasnt exactly the same as the application 
to the mainstream lender. The mortgage term sought and the value of the property differed. I 
think these factors would have influenced both lenders decisions. 
Mr Ms mortgage advisor says that the specialist lender declined the application at the initial 
stage but changed its mind on appeal after reviewing the letter from Nationwide admitting it 
had reported the loan incorrectly. So Im satisfied that Nationwides mistake didnt result in 
this application being rejected. It may have meant the application process took longer, as it 
was rejected at decision in principle stage and had to be appealed. But I understand that Mr 
M already had the letter from Nationwide when the application was submitted. So Im not 
sure why it was declined initially as the relevant information was available at the outset.
The mortgage advisor says that, due to the failed application in October 2021, Mr M couldnt 
make another application until February 2022. Mr M says that Nationwide is responsible for 
the losses he suffered as a result of having to wait. As explained above, I cant conclude that 
the 2021 application failed because of Nationwides mistake. So I dont think Nationwide is 
responsible for any losses which Mr M incurred as a result of having to wait until February 
2022 to make another application. By the time that application was made, Mr M had the 
letter from Nationwide admitting its mistake which helped the application to go through.Taking everything into account, I cant safely conclude that without Nationwides mistake Mr 
M would have been able to secure a mortgage earlier, or with a mainstream lender.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Nationwide to pay further compensation of £100 to Mr M because of the 
further delay in correcting his credit file. But, for the reasons above, I dont think it needs to 
do any more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay 
further compensation of £100 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman