DRN-3765059
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by AMG Wealth Solutions LLP (AMG Wealth) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. Mr W chose to opt into the BSPS2.
Mr Ws scheme benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £352,332.
Mr W was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so while he chose to opt into the BSPS2, he nevertheless sought 
advice. Mr W originally met with another advice firm, but they couldnt complete things in 
time. Mr W then met with AMG Wealth in January 2018 following an introduction from a 
financial adviser Mr W had previously used. 
AMG Wealth recorded some information about Mr Ws circumstances in a fact-find. 
It noted that he was 50, married and he worked full-time earning approximately £35,000. 
His wife was also employed and she earned around £12,000. 
They had a mortgage on their home of approximately £50,000, which had a remaining term 
of 10 years. They had no other liabilities. Mr W had an existing personal pension worth 
around £42,000 and he was contributing to his new workplace pension. Mr Ws wife also had 
a DB pension. Mr and Mrs Ws household expenditure was £1,100 a month. AMG Wealth 
also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be medium  
a rating of five on a scale of one to ten.
AMG Wealth issued a suitability report detailing its recommendation on 26 January 2018. 
This said that Mr W had tried to transfer his BSPS benefits before but had been let down by 
the other firm. It said Mr W wanted to access his pension as and when he wanted and the 
flexibility to vary his income - including when his state pension was paid. It said he wanted to 
ensure his wife inherited his funds when he died with the ability to include other family 
members should anything happen to them both. AMG Wealth also said here that Mr W 
wanted to retire at age 60, but it would depend on having the ability to do so if the situation 
arose. It also said Mr W might want to access his funds prior to age 60 if his employment 
situation changed in the future.
AMG Wealth recommended that Mr W transfer his pension to provide him with control of his 
pension, certainty of where the funds were, to provide flexibility in how he accessed his 
pension, to nominate beneficiaries of his plan and to provide separation of his pension funds 
from his employer. AMG Wealth recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was 
in line with his attitude to risk.
Mr W complained to AMG Wealth in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
he was worried he might have been given bad advice and that he wouldve been better off 
staying in the DB scheme. 
AMG Wealth didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said it exercised reasonable care 
and skill when it advised Mr W and discharged all of its regulatory duties. It said it provided 
detailed information about the existing schemes benefits, provided clear risk warnings about 
the transfer, the transfer was consistent with his needs and objectives and he was able to 
make an informed decision. It said it was required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice it gave was suitable and it was satisfied it had done so.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr W referred his complaint to us. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and they upheld it. They thought the advice was unsuitable. They 
said Mr W wasnt likely to improve on his DB scheme benefits at age 65 by transferring. 
They said given Mr W indicated he wanted to retire at 60, it wouldve been helpful to him if 
AMG Wealth had produced analysis based on him retiring at this age. They said there was 
nothing to indicate Mr W needed flexibility  but it appears he could already achieve this with 
his existing personal pension and his workplace pension, which was being funded at 17% of 
his salary. They said death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer and they thought 
AMG Wealth shouldve appropriately managed Mr Ws concerns he had about the scheme 
and moving to either the BSPS2 or the PPF. They said if suitable advice had been given, 
Mr W wouldve moved to the BSPS2 as it would allow the potential for flexibility in the future.
AMG Wealth disagreed and it asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. But it 
said it had, in any event, calculated that there would be no redress to pay as Mr Ws fund 
was in surplus  there was no loss.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, it is necessary for me to consider the matter 
and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AMG Wealth's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AMG Wealth 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ws best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that AMG Wealth was required to carry 
out by the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ws pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme  was 7.13% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the 
scheme at age 65. No figure was produced to match the maximum tax-free cash and 
reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age. To match the full pension the 
PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.11% and to match the tax-free 
cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 3.79%.
Despite AMG Wealth recording in the suitability report that Mr W currently wanted to 
retire at 60, it did not produce critical yields based on the benefits available to 
Mr W under the scheme at this age. It strikes me this wouldve been helpful to him 
and more in line with the advice he was presumably seeking.
 
Furthermore, despite the fact it was known by the point AMG Wealth instructed the 
TVAS that continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr W, and 
it knew that Mr W had chosen to opt into the BSPS2 prior to the 22 December 2017 
deadline, the analysis was based on the BSPS benefits. AMG Wealth didnt 
undertake any analysis of the benefits Mr W wouldve been due under the BSPS2. 
I think it shouldve done  the information was readily available from his time to 
choose information. In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the 
critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were 
likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.So, given Mr Ws recorded medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.2% for 14 
years to retirement (age 65) and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr W 
was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value than 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 by transferring and investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. And given the shorter term to a retirement age of 60, 
I think its likely the critical yields, had they been produced, wouldve been higher 
than those at age 65. So I think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits 
than the BSPS2 if he retired early. And while there might have been some scope to 
improve on the benefits available to Mr W under the PPF at age 65  again at age 60 
I think the position wouldve been different due to the critical yields likely being higher 
 I dont think there were other compelling reasons to support the transfer as being 
clearly in Mr Ws best interests as I will explain below. 
AMG Wealth recorded that Mr W wanted to retire at 60 and have the flexibility to 
determine how and when he accessed his pension benefits and to be able to vary his 
income. But I dont think Mr Ws retirement plan was in anyway set or thought 
through. Retirement at 60 was documented as a possibility  it was dependent on 
whether the situation arose. Im sure he liked the idea of retiring early  but he 
already had this option available to him. He didnt need to transfer to achieve things.
As for flexibility, while Mr W couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing 
indicates he had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement. In fact 
Mr W didnt know what his income need in retirement was. There is nothing to 
indicate Mr W had an apparent need to take a lump sum and defer taking an income. 
Or a need to access a cash lump sum greater than his DB scheme would provide. 
Mr W might have been attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  but 
I think this was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal 
pension rather than a genuine objective of his.
In any event, Mr W already had flexibility. He was contributing to his workplace 
pension scheme  a defined-contribution (DC) scheme which already provided 
flexibility in how and when he could access his benefits. Given the 17% contribution 
being made to this, I think this along with Mr Ws DB scheme benefits couldve given 
him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided. Mr W also had 
an existing paid up personal pension he could access flexibly to support things. 
So I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
 
AMG Wealth recorded that Mr W didnt know what income he needed or wanted in 
retirement. And AMG Wealth didnt attempt to carry out a detailed income and 
expenditure analysis with him to try and determine it. All it said was that, once 
Mr Ws mortgage was paid off, he didnt currently need a large pension income 
provided he didnt dramatically change his lifestyle. 
Mr Ws time to choose information estimated that at age 65 hed be entitled to a full 
pension of just under £20,000 a year under the BSPS2 or a reduced pension of 
around £13,600 and a lump sum of a little under £91,000. Given Mr Ws current 
expenditure was recorded as being £1,100 a month, it appears his DB scheme 
income would likely be enough to meet his future needs. If he did choose to retire 
early his DB scheme income would be lower. But he also had his workplace pension 
and his paid-up personal pension he could access flexibly to supplement this - at 
least until his state pension became payable. This ignores the fact Mr Ws wife also 
had a DB pension.Overall, Mr Ws DB scheme income provided a guaranteed and escalating income for 
life, which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. AMG Wealth didnt know what 
Mr Ws income needs were in retirement  so it had nothing to show that his DB 
scheme income along with his other means couldnt adequately meet his retirement 
needs. Given this, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer out. In the 
circumstances, I think retaining his DB pension was a more appropriate way for him 
to meet his future retirement needs rather than risking his guaranteed benefits to 
attempt to do so.
AMG Wealth recommended the transfer to ensure Mr W adequately provided for his 
wife in the form of a potential lump sum benefit upon his death. But the priority here 
was to advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme 
offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to 
his family in the event of his death. I think AMG Wealth underplayed the value of this 
benefit.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr W drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr W may have thought it would. 
If Mr W had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, AMG Wealth couldve explored 
life insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had significant disposable income 
through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been 
considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
cheaper. But there's little evidence AMG Wealth did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately AMG Wealth should not have 
encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr W may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was AMG Wealths role to 
objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, Mr W had chosen to 
opt into the BSPS2 and in my view all signs pointed toward it being established. But 
even if not, the PPF still provided Mr W with guaranteed income and the option of 
accessing tax-free cash. Mr W was unlikely to meaningfully improve on these 
benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve 
thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was 
in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ws best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. Im mindful that Mr W had already sought advice from another firm before he met 
with AMG Wealth. AMG Wealth says Mr W had made up his mind that he wanted to transfer 
It also recorded that Mr W had ...considerable knowledge of the process required due to the 
fact that you had gone along with it already..... 
But while I accept Mr W was likely motivated to transfer when he met AMG Wealth, on 
balance, Im not persuaded he wouldve insisted on transferring against advice. Just because Mr W had been through the advice process before he met with AMG Wealth, 
Im not persuaded this means he possessed the requisite knowledge, confidence or skill to 
go against the advice he was given in what is a complex area of advice. Mr Ws investment 
knowledge and experience was, in my view, limited based on the available evidence. 
I think he placed significant weight on the advice he was given. So, Im not persuaded Mr W 
had made up his mind to transfer to the extent that, if things had happened as they should 
have, he wouldve put aside AMG Wealths professional advice to remain in the DB scheme 
- advice he had after all sought out and was paying for.
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr W received from AMG Wealth was 
unsuitable for him.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
AMG Wealth  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr W. Taking everything into account, including Mr Ws age 
and what hes said about worrying about whether hell be worse off in retirement as a result 
of the advice he received, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So,
I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider that because 
Mr W chose to opt into the BSPS2 prior to the advice, if suitable advice had been given AMG 
Wealth wouldve confirmed that Mr Ws choice was suitable in the circumstances.
AMG Wealth must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
AMG Wealth should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of 
what AMG Wealth based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr W acceptance of my 
final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AMG Wealth should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts AMG Wealths offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, AMG Wealth may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP pays Mr W the balance.
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP should also pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman