DRN-3591210
The complaint
Mr B complains about Trading 212 UK Limited voiding trades in his Contract for Differences 
(CFD) trading account and freezing funds in his general investment trading account. 
What happened
Mr B opened an investment trading account with Trading 212 UK Limited (212) in June 
2020. In November 2020, all his trading accounts were frozen which meant he was unable to 
access his funds and was prevented from transferring these to another account. He says 
212 voided all his positions and kept his accounts frozen so he complained to them in 
December 2020.
In their final response, 212 say they became aware of an issue with the price feeds on some 
gold and silver pairs in November 2020 including XAG/JPY; XAG/RUB; XAG/TRY and 
XAU/JPY. They say this meant that the prices quoted were incorrect and not an accurate 
reflection of the underlying market price of the instrument at that time. They say they were 
impacted by price latency as their system should not have executed orders on quotes that 
had expired and were more than one minute old. They say this falls within their definition of a 
manifest error in clause 6.7 of the client agreement.  
They say Mr B had exploited the error in pricing to make profits of approximately €63,000 
across 969 positions which were affected by these incorrect prices. They say they were 
entitled under clause 6.8, to cancel the order and any relevant consequences immediately 
upon detection of such manifest error. They also say, the clause applied as a breach of the 
terms and conditions of his account regardless of whether Mr B acted in good faith or 
intentionally; and so, they were correct in voiding all affected trades and were unwilling to 
offer him the sum of money in his account. 
Mr B also complained about server outage, and server connection issues. To resolve his 
complaint, he would like the €12,500 funds in his general investment account to be released 
to him.
Our investigator said the terms and conditions of the agreement gave them the right to void 
any transactions they believed were within the scope of the manifest error, so, believed they 
had fairly exercised their right to do so. He also communicated with 212 to ensure they had 
correctly dealt with the closure of the general investment trading account  which 212 
confirmed would be closed after the available funds were offset against the sum, they say 
Mr B still owed them. He concluded there was no evidence of wrongdoing on 212s part and 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B has taken considerable time to explain his position and Id like to reassure 
him that Ive considered everything even though I havent specifically commented on each 
point. Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint and for the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Manifest error
Ive started my investigation looking at how 212 define a manifest error in their agreement. 
Ive considered, in light of what 212 said, whether theyve acted fairly by applying their policy 
and thereby voiding his trades. 
The CFD client agreement says;
Manifest error means an obvious error in the quotes of the Financial Instruments 
which substantially deviated from the prevailing market price and which has occurred 
as a result of a system or technical error.
The definition is clear in the terms and conditions of the client agreement which Mr B agreed 
he had read and understood when he signed up to the account. These terms apply to each 
trade he placed with 212. Theyve identified 969 individual trades which they say were 
affected by this manifest error and say clause 6.8 of the terms of the client agreement allows 
them to cancel any order where there is a manifest error found. It says:-
If Manifest error in a specific quote is found, we shall be entitled at our discretion to 
cancel the Order and the relevant consequences  in terms of either a profit or a loss 
for You  immediately upon detection of such Manifest error. We shall not be liable 
for any damages or consequential loss incurred by You as a result of such 
cancellation, except for damages resulting directly from our gross negligence or wilful 
misconduct.
I looked at Mr Bs trading history with 212, from account opening until September 2020, he 
had closed 2708 positions and made an accumulative profit of around €68. When I compare 
this to the 969 positions that enabled him to make a profit of around €63,000, I am 
persuaded by what 212 say was obviously a manifest error. 
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly about this matter that 212 were unfair in their application of 
the right to void his trades, particularly as he says some of these positions were opened long 
before the manifest error happened. It is not possible to do a forensic examination of the 
thousands of trades Mr B has placed so it is necessary to look at overall impact on the 
account. Any trades impacted by the manifest error in pricing would fall within the definition 
of a manifest error in 212s terms and conditions and so 212 were within their rights to apply 
their policy in this way. I dont think 212 have acted unfairly by applying their manifest error 
policy and I think their decision to void those trades is reasonable.
Where there is an allegation of wrongdoing against the account holder, 212 are entitled to 
cease to offer its services to an investor. Clause 20.1 and 20.2 of the client agreement 
allows 212 to unilaterally cancel and deem void any Order made in violation of clause 
20.1, to close your (his) Account and to terminate the Agreement. In such case, we shall not 
be held liable for any damages, loss of profits or any other real or contingent obligations 
incurred by you. 212 made a business decision to terminate his positions and close his 
account. They are entitled to make this decision and it is not within our remit to tell a 
business who it should conduct business with.I have considered Mr Bs comments around server outages and connection issues. The 
screen shots he provides offer a snap shot of an instance when this may have happened but 
unfortunately the evidence doesnt offer any insight into the how long this was for or how 
often nor does it demonstrate any impact to Mr B. So, Im unable to say there was any 
wrongdoing on 212s part. 
Access to funds
Mr B also complained he was unable to access approximately €34,000 which was in his 
general investment trading account. He says his accounts had unfairly been frozen despite 
this account having nothing to do with the CFD account which was impacted by the manifest 
errors. I understand that the funds were not in Mr Bs CFD account, but the general 
investment trading account was still part of his portfolio with 212. It would be reasonable for 
them to freeze access to any of the accounts they hold where there is an allegation of 
wrongdoing by the account holder.
As Ive explained above, 212 were within their rights to void his trades and the terms and 
conditions clearly explain this. They say Mr B needs to return to them the profits he has 
made from the manifest error, which he has already withdrawn from the account. They retain 
the right to offset any funds within the accounts they hold against any outstanding balance 
owed to them  and this is what theyd confirmed they would be doing. 
Whilst I accept they did not specifically inform him of the action they would be taking until 
June 2022, they did make it clear since the error came to light that he had benefited from the 
manifest error and the terms outline what happens in this situation. Therefore, its 
reasonable that he should have known he wouldnt be able to retain any of the profits. 
Ultimately, it wouldnt be fair for him to have had the benefit of these profits by virtue of this 
manifest error, so I think it was fair and reasonable under the circumstances that 212 did 
offset the funds from his general investment account. Given the circumstances, I am not 
persuaded that any wrongdoing on 212s part has been established so I will not be asking 
them to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman