DRN-3844138
The complaint
Mr O complains Insurance Factory Ltd mis-sold him a pet insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Insurers are obligated to provide sufficient information to allow customers to make an 
informed decision before buying a policy. This means Insurance Factory was 
expected to highlight important terms during the sales process.
Mr O says he wasnt aware he couldnt claim for any illnesses that became apparent 
within the first 14 days of the policy he bought for his dog. Insurance Factory has 
sent us a screenshot of what Mr O would have seen when buying his policy, and Ive 
seen under the heading Important Policy Information, it said, 2. There is no cover 
for illnesses that show signs or symptoms within the first 14 days of your policy start 
date 
Before Mr O could buy the policy, the screenshot shows he was asked to tick a box 
to confirm hed read the policy wording and Insurance Product Information 
Document. Both these documents also explained the 14-day waiting period, so 
I consider Insurance Factory gave Mr O enough opportunity to be aware he wouldnt 
be able to make a claim within the first 14 days of his dogs policy.
I should also add the exclusion complained about isnt unusual in pet policies. But 
I consider it was highlighted at the point of sale. This persuades me Mr O ought to 
have been aware of this exclusion before he purchased the policy; and could have 
amended the start date if he was concerned there would be a period his dog would 
be without cover. Because of this, I cant agree Insurance Factory mis-sold Mr Os 
pet policy.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Os frustrations, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint about Insurance Factory Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman