The complaint
The partners of F complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasn't treated the 
partnership fairly under its current account switching scheme. They say that the cash 
incentive offered to switch has been calculated incorrectly.
What happened
In 2019, the partners of F decided to take advantage of something called the RBS 
Incentivised Switching Scheme and switch the partnerships accounts away from RBS to a 
new bank. 
Fs prospective new bank told the partners what the cash incentive payment (known as a 
dowry) would be. The partners were expecting around £13,000 but the bank told them it 
would only be £6,000. 
The partners complained to RBS. Their accountant explained on their behalf that the 
partnerships turnover was higher than the amounts paid into the bank account due to the 
way GP practices are funded. 
RBS didnt uphold the complaint. It told the partners that the dowry payment was calculated 
based on credit turnover through the bank account, not actual turnover. 
The partners asked our service to look into what had happened. 
One of our investigators did so and concluded that the bank had applied the scheme rules 
correctly and hadnt done anything wrong. 
Fs partners didnt agree. So they asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint the partners but Im not going to uphold their 
complaint. I dont think that RBS has done anything wrong. Ill explain why below. 
First, I think its important to explain that the Incentivised Switching Scheme isnt RBS own 
invention. It was a government requirement in order to reduce RBS market share, after the 
state took a majority stake in RBS in 2009. The scheme was approved by the UK 
Government and the European Commission. An independent body, Banking Competition 
Remedies Limited, oversees it.  
Our service doesnt have any jurisdiction to consider the rules of the scheme itself. But I can 
look at whether RBS has applied the scheme rules correctly. 
DRN-2005635Having looked carefully at the published rules of the scheme, Im satisfied that RBS has 
applied them correctly in this case. The definition of Turnover in the rules reads Turnover 
means the annual aggregate credit turnover with Business Current Accounts. I think this 
makes it clear that the dowry will be calculated using the credit turnover through the bank 
accounts, not the business accounting turnover, which may be higher. 
Im satisfied that credit turnover was used in calculating the dowry applicable to F. So I dont 
think the scheme rules have been applied wrongly or unfairly.
The partners seem to have been under a misapprehension that accounting turnover would 
be used in the dowry calculation. I can sympathise with their frustration. But I havent seen 
any evidence that RBS misled them on this point. 
I understand that GP practices turnover is greater than the amounts that go through the 
bank accounts because of the treatment of doctors superannuation. The partners argue that 
the calculation is therefore unfair. I understand their point, but this is a factor of the scheme 
rules, not a problem with RBS application of them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman