DRN-2905289
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as I complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) blocked 
and closed its account, and recalled a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) it had been granted.
I is represented by one of its directors, Mr G.
What happened
Mr G has brought two complaints to our service about RBSs actions. This decision focuses 
solely on his complaint on behalf of I. Ill address Mr Gs other complaint in a separate 
decision.
In May 2020, I applied for a Bounce Back Loan in the sum of £50,000. It was quickly granted 
and paid to Is account. A month later, RBS blocked Is account. Mr G says he called RBS to 
find out why the account had been blocked, but that nobody could tell him. He was told there 
was a marker on Is account, but, despite speaking to numerous different people, nobody 
could tell him why the marker had been applied.
Mr G complained, but RBS kept the block in place and then withdrew Is BBL and later 
issued a formal demand for repayment. RBS issued three final response letters, one on 16 
September 2020, one on 11 January 2021 and one on 17 June 2021.
In each letter, RBS said no banking error had been made. RBS said it had to carry out 
checks that required the accounts to be blocked, and that it had determined the BBL 
shouldnt have been granted to I. It said it had closed Is accounts after careful consideration, 
and that it couldnt provide any further detail about its decision.
Because Is account remained blocked and because RBS couldnt resolve Is complaint, Mr 
G brought the complaint to our service. To put things right, Mr G said he wanted an 
explanation of what had happened, access to his account, re-instatement of the BBL, 
compensation, and an apology.
Our investigator didnt uphold Is complaint. She said RBS was entitled to block Is account 
while it carried out a review, that it had followed the correct procedure for withdrawing its 
services from I, and that it was entitled to terminate the loan in the circumstances of this 
case.
Mr G didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
Mr G says he has banked with RBS for over 30 years, so I understand why hes frustrated by 
his accounts being blocked without notice or explanation. But if Im to uphold Is complaint, 
Id need to be satisfied that RBS has acted unreasonably or done something wrong. And, 
having looked at everything both parties have sent me, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they have to comply. As part of those obligations, 
sometimes banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain 
documents or information. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied RBS was entitled to take the actions it did. 
RBS has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of Is 
accounts and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
I understand Mr G wants to know why RBS blocked Is accounts and why nobody could tell 
him what was going on when he enquired. While I can say that Ive reviewed RBSs actions 
and am satisfied it did nothing wrong, I cant reasonably tell it to disclose the reasons for the 
block and review, because its under no obligation to reveal those reasons. So, its entitled to 
choose not to if it wishes.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms of Is accounts, with which both RBS and I had to comply, say that RBS can close 
Is accounts as long as it gives at least 60 days notice. And I can see RBS gave I 60 days 
notice in its letter dated 1 September 2020. Further, theres no obligation, whether 
contractual or otherwise, for RBS to disclose the reasons behind its decision.
Having considered the information RBS has provided, Im satisfied it acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of Is accounts when it closed Is accounts. The terms and 
conditions require it to give 60 days notice, which RBS did. And the terms dont require RBS 
to explain why it decided to close the accounts. That being the case, I see no basis upon 
which I can reasonably make an award in Is favour.
Bounce Back Loan
Shortly after RBS blocked Is accounts, it told Mr G it would be recalling the BBL it had 
issued a month previously. It issued a formal letter of demand on 7 January 2021, stating 
that an Event of Default had occurred under the terms of the loan agreement, and that it was 
demanding immediate repayment as a result. It said it had offset £50,000 from Is account 
against the debt, meaning that I owed no further money.
Mr G has said RBS breached the contract by recalling the loan funds, and by paying off the 
debt with the funds in Is account. So Ive looked at the terms of the contract, Ive listened to 
what Mr G has said, and Ive looked at the evidence RBS submitted to explain why it was 
entitled to call in the loan and repay the outstanding balance using funds in Is account.
The terms and conditions of the BBL set out the circumstances in which RBS can demand 
repayment of the loan, as well as the circumstances in which it can offset funds maintained 
in a current account against the outstanding balance. Having considered all of the evidence 
both parties have provided, Im not persuaded RBS made a mistake or breached the terms 
of Is contract. RBS is entitled to take such actions in certain circumstances, and indeed our Service would expect it to do so when those circumstances are present. And Im satisfied 
RBS was entitled to recall the loan and pay it off in the manner it did, on this occasion.
I appreciate Mr G is frustrated that RBS hasnt told him what the breach is, but again it isnt 
obliged to do so. And, having thought about everything both parties have told me, I see no 
basis on which I could reasonably compel RBS to undo its actions, or explain itself further.
I know this isnt the answer Mr G was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information Ive 
given wont answer many of the questions he had. But I hope he can take some comfort 
from what Ive said and in light of an independent third-party reviewing RBSs actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman