DRN-2968612
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC terminated his sole trader 
business account and rescinded the loan which was granted under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme.
What happened
Mr S held a business account for his sole trader business. 
In February 2020, Mr S began making plans for a new business venture.
In July 2020, Mr Ss business plan was approved, and he applied for a start-up loan to help 
fund his new business. Mr Ss loan application was declined due to his low credit rating.
Mr S became aware of the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme and decided to apply for a 
loan under the scheme. He based his application on the future earnings of his new business 
but applied under his sole trader business name which was already established. On 3 
September 2020, Mr S applied for the full £50,000 loan as he anticipated at least £200,000 
annual earnings in his new venture. On 7 September 2020, Lloyds approved the loan. 
A few days after the loan was granted, Mr S went into a Lloyds branch to make a transfer to 
another Lloyds account. Mr S was told by the branch advisor that the money wasnt 
available. On 14 September 2020, Lloyds made the decision to end the banking relationship 
with Mr S, and sent a letter confirming all his accounts would be closed.
Mr S wasnt happy  he wanted to know why the decision had been made and said this 
caused financial difficulty as, without the BBL, he couldnt progress his new business.
Lloyds responded to Mr S and said they were entitled to close the business account and 
gave Mr S appropriate notice (60 days) when doing so. They explained that a commercial 
decision was made to repay the BBL using funds from Mr Ss business account. Mr S wasnt 
happy so brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Lloyds was able to block 
and close the account and thought the reason for Lloyds cancelling the loan facility was 
reasonable. Our investigator found that Mr Ss loan application was based on the estimated 
earnings of his new company  however as the application was made in the name of his 
existing business, he should have based his application on his current business earnings. 
Mr S remained unhappy. He said that the loan was approved based on his potential future 
earnings of £200,000. Mr S said he didnt think there was any issue until he went into the 
branch and believes the decision to block his account was based on his image and race. 
Our investigator responded and said she hadnt seen any evidence to indicate that the 
business which had applied for the loan anticipated generating turnover of £200,000. And 
she hadnt seen any evidence to show the block or closure was because of Mr Ss 
appearance or race.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
great disappointment to Mr S so Ive explained my reasons below.
Account block and closure 
Lloyds are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing, blocking and subsequently closing Mr Ss account. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. This is just the 
same as if Mr S decided to end his agreement with Lloyds and use another bank  he also 
wouldnt have to explain why. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial 
discretion. While Im aware Lloyds hasnt shared the reasons for their decision with Mr S, 
Ive reviewed their reasons and Ive seen nothing to suggest they acted unreasonably.
The BBL application
Mr S has explained that he based his application for the loan on his new companys 
estimated earnings. Mr S has supplied documentation from his own research which confirms 
a loan can be applied for in this way. However, Ive carefully considered what Mr S has 
explained, and while I can appreciate why he based the application on his new companys 
earnings, he applied for the loan under the name of his existing business and through that 
businesss account. Because of that, the loan application should have been based on the 
earnings of Mr Ss current business. And as theses earnings were significantly lower than his 
forecast earnings from his new company, I believe it was reasonable for Lloyds to review 
things.
Ive also considered whether Mr S would have been entitled to apply for the loan under his 
new company name. The conditions of applying for a loan under the BBL Scheme state that 
a business must be engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date of the 
application, and must have been carrying on business on 1 March 2020, and must have 
been adversely affected by coronavirus.
I note from Mr Ss testimony to our service that the business plan for his new company was 
approved in July 2020, which suggests the new company wasnt trading on 1 March 2020. 
Therefore, Mr S wouldnt have been eligible to apply for the BBL under his new company.
Should Lloyds have approved the BBL application?
The BBL Scheme conditions state that businesses could apply for up to 25% of their 
turnover. The maximum loan available under the Scheme was £50,000. 
Ive reviewed the loan application which Mr S submitted. The application shows that Mr S 
applied for a loan amount of £50,000, based on projected turnover of £200,000.
Once Lloyds approved the loan, they sent Mr S a BBL Scheme Facility Letter. The opening 
paragraph of the letter states:
We are pleased to offer you a loan, subject to checks we are required to perform, on 
the date and on the terms and conditions set out below and in the application form.So, I think its reasonable to conclude that Lloyds approved the application in good faith and 
explained that they would carry out the relevant checks afterwards.
When carrying out the checks, Lloyds found that Mr Ss business had anticipated annual 
turnover of only £12,000. Ive reviewed the bank statements of Mr Ss business and Im 
satisfied, based on the evidence, that the business stated on the application form didnt have 
an annual turnover of £200,000. It therefore follows that Im satisfied Mr S and his business 
wouldnt have been eligible for the £50,000 BBL.
I recognise that it would have been more helpful if Lloyds had carried out the full checks prior 
to approving the loan. I think if theyd done so, they would not have approved the loan and 
Mr S wouldnt have been left in a difficult position of thinking he had the relevant money to 
get his new business up and running and then find he didnt. But to uphold Mr Ss complaint 
on this point alone, Id need to be satisfied that Lloyds did something wrong. And as they 
had stated clearly that the application approval was subject to checks, I dont think I can 
fairly say they should have completed the checks before issuing the funds.
Withdrawal of the BBL and repayment of the money
Under the BBL agreement, Lloyds have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances  and Im satisfied that their actions in this case were fair. 
The BBL Scheme Facility Letter confirms the events of default. In particular it states;
Events of default
You will be in breach of this agreement if:
you do not make payments on time or comply with your other obligations 
under this agreement;
you have provided incorrect, inaccurate or misleading information and as a 
result your loan does not meet the eligibility requirements of the BBLS;
any information you provided or declarations you made in connection with this 
agreement is incorrect, inaccurate or misleading; or
it is or becomes unlawful for us to maintain the loan with you or to do so 
would, in our reasonable opinion, give rise or be reasonably likely to give rise 
to us being subject to action or censure from any government, regulator or 
enforcement agency
While I appreciate Mr S didnt intentionally supply incorrect or misleading information, the 
application held incorrect turnover details for the business making the application. So, based 
on this, I think its reasonable that Lloyds decided to default the loan and ask for it to be 
repaid.
Discrimination
Mr S has said he believes Lloyds decision was made after he visited the branch and 
therefore believes his image and race played a part in the decision. This is a serious 
allegation for Mr S to make, and one Ive thought about carefully. Ive explained above why I 
consider Lloyds decision to be fair in the circumstances of this complaint  and thats 
because Mr S applied for a loan under one business, who didnt meet the requirements of the scheme. Ive seen nothing to suggest Lloyds made their decision based on Mr S 
appearance and so I wont be upholding his complaint on this point.
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and 
within their discretion when reviewing and subsequently closing Mr Ss account. I consider 
they gave appropriate notice and, while they havent shared the full reasons with Mr S, I 
believe their actions were fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman