DRN-4454522
The complaint
Mr C complained because J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, refused to refund 
him for transactions he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 5 June 2023, Mr C rang Chase to report that his phone had been pickpocketed while he 
was on holiday abroad. The phone case had also held Mr Cs Chase card, and his cards 
with two other financial organisations. Mr C rang all the banks to report the theft and stop his 
cards. 
Chase told Mr C that there had already been some cash withdrawals and attempted 
withdrawals. In sterling equivalents, these were:
- Attempted withdrawal for £591.34, which was declined on the basis of exceeding the 
daily limit;
- Another attempted withdrawal seconds later for £493.43, which was again declined 
on the basis of exceeding the daily limit;
- A completed withdrawal a minute later for £297.61;
- A completed withdrawal three minutes later for £101.78;
- An attempted withdrawal two minutes later for £52.82, which was declined on the 
basis of exceeding the daily limit;
- A completed withdrawal just over an hour later for £18.28;
- An attempted withdrawal a minute later for £36.57, which was declined on the basis 
of exceeding the daily limit;
- An attempted withdrawal three minutes later for £18.29, which was declined on the 
basis of exceeding the daily limit.
The total cash taken was therefore £417.68.  
Chase blocked Mr Cs card, marking it as stolen. There were further attempted withdrawals, 
which were declined because the card had now been blocked.
The next day, Chase rang Mr C to ask for more information. Mr C said he hadnt used his 
Chase card since hed been abroad. He said he hadnt written down his PIN, and said his 
PIN for his Chase card was different from that for his other bank cards. Chase told Mr C that 
it couldnt uphold the fraud claim, because there was no clear evidence to understand how 
the thief had obtained Mr Cs PIN. Mr C asked for this to be reviewed, but Chase didnt 
change its mind. 
Mr C complained. He asked for a call back the next day, which the advisor agreed.  In the 
afternoon of the following day, Mr C rang again because he hadnt received the agreed call 
back. Chase offered a call the following day, when it did phone Mr C. It apologised for the 
missed call, and said the complaint was still being investigated.
Chase rang Mr C on 14 June, and said it was partly upholding his complaint. It upheld his 
complaint for poor customer service, and paid him £50 for the inconvenience. It didnt uphold 
the fraud claim.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said that he hadnt written his PIN down, 
or divulged it to anyone, but Chase continued to imply it was his fault, which he believed to 
be wrong. He explained that hed been reimbursed by the suppliers of his credit card. He 
wanted Chase to reimburse him with £417.68 for the disputed transactions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said that Chase could hold Mr C liable 
for the transactions it if believed it was more likely than not that Mr C had made or 
authorised the transactions himself. As there was no point of compromise for Mr Cs PIN, the 
investigator thought it was likely that Mr C, or someone he was travelling with, authorised the 
disputed transactions.
Mr C didnt agree. He explained that hed had three cards stolen, which he held with different 
financial organisations. The PIN for one of them might have been shoulder surfed with the 
thief watching Mr C enter the number, because hed previously used just that one card while 
abroad. The PINs for all three cards were different. Mr C also said that hed had a refund for 
the third card, which was a credit card, even though that card, like the Chase one, hadnt 
been shoulder-surfed.
Mr C was also unhappy with the investigators view that hed made or authorised the 
withdrawals. He pointed out that there had been other transactions declined before and 
after. So he thought someone had tried to withdraw larger amounts and kept reducing the 
amounts until they could withdraw cash.  
Mr C also said that hed maintained throughout that the credit card company had refunded 
him, but Chase hadnt. He also asked whether the onus wasnt on Chase to freeze the card 
or call him to check. He said that with other providers that was what happened, so he 
believed Chase should have such a process in place, and so he should receive a refund.
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry to hear that Mr C was pickpocketed while on holiday abroad, and I recognise 
that would have been an upsetting experience.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for Mr 
Cs complaint about the disputed transactions on his debit card with Chase are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt 
authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The 
regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under 
certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure.
This decision only relates to Mr Cs complaint about Chase, and I cant comment on the 
refund decisions taken by the other two financial organisations with which Mr C had cards 
which were stolen. I can only look at the individual circumstances and evidence of the case 
before me. However, I think it might help to explain that different rules apply for debit cards  
such as Mr Cs card with Chase  and credit cards, such as Mr Cs card with the credit card 
company which refunded him. Where a credit facility has been used, the relevant legislation 
is Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to detail 
that in relation to Mr Cs complaint about his debit card with Chase, but in summary the rules 
relating to credit and debit cards are slightly different.In considering Mr Cs complaint about Chase, Ive considered whether its more likely than 
not that Mr C, or someone close to him, carried out the disputed transactions.
To do so, Ive looked at the technical evidence from Chase. This shows that Mr Cs genuine 
card was used, because the genuine chip was read. This isnt in dispute because Mr C 
reported his card as stolen. 
But the technical evidence also shows that the transactions used the correct PIN. This is a 
key issue here. The technical evidence shows that there were no failed attempts to enter the 
correct PIN. When transactions were rejected, as Ive set out above, they were rejected 
because of the daily withdrawal limit. So whoever carried out the transactions knew the 
correct PIN from the outset. Its most unlikely that anyone could correctly guess a PIN, as 
there are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN. Mr C hadnt used his Chase card 
before while on holiday, so he couldnt have been shoulder surfed by someone watching 
him enter his PIN. Mr C also said that  sensibly  he had different PINs for all three cards. 
This means the thief couldnt have known Mr Cs Chase PIN by using the same PIN as they 
had shoulder surfed on one of the other cards.
Logically, this leaves only two possibilities. Either Mr C, or someone close to him, carried out 
the disputed transactions, or the PIN must have been recorded in some way in the phone 
case so that the thief could use it.
I cant know for certain what happened as I wasnt present. When this happens I take my 
decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Here, I dont think its likely 
that Mr C carried out the transactions himself. I dont know anything about his travelling 
companions, but if anyone in his party did carry out the transactions and knew his PIN, it's 
likely they would also have known his credit limit. Ive borne in mind that Mr C reported the 
loss promptly; and his evidence comes across as genuine. Importantly, the pattern of the 
transactions, which Ive set out in full above, is more indicative of a fraudster who didnt 
know the daily limit on the card, and was practised in altering the request until they 
maximised what was available. I recognise that this pattern can sometimes be copied by 
card holders who want to disguise the fact that they carried out the transactions themselves, 
but on balance I dont think thats what happened here. I think its most likely that Mr C was 
the victim of theft as he says, and that the transactions were carried out by a third party 
fraudster.   
This only leaves the option that the PIN was in some way obtained by the thief from 
information in the phone case. I recognise that Mr C said he hadnt written down his PIN. It 
could, however, be something more subtle than that. For example, if he had used part of his 
date of birth as his PIN, and the case also contained evidence of that. This is only one 
example, and I dont know what Mr Cs PIN was and Im not saying this is how it happened. 
Logically, however, I cant see any other explanation for how the thief knew the correct PIN, 
than that it was obtainable through the phone case which was stolen.
The Payment Services Regulations provide that a payment service user (here, Mr C) has 
obligations in relation to payment instruments (the card) and personalised security 
credentials. As there is no clear way in which Mr Cs PIN was obtained by the thief, Chase 
was entitled to refuse a refund of the disputed amounts. I find that it acted within the 
Regulations when it did so.  
Mr C also asked whether there was an onus on Chase to freeze the card or call him to 
check. Banks have to balance their responsibility promptly to make payments which 
customers have requested, with fraud prevention measures. To take an extreme example, it 
wouldnt be proportionate if every withdrawal led to a card being frozen. Every bank takes its own decisions about where that balance lies, and the security measures and triggers for 
checks are confidential, for security reasons. Looking at the circumstances here, where the 
genuine card and correct PIN were used, I cant say that I think Chase should have frozen 
Mr Cs card. 
I consider that the £50 which Chase paid Mr C for customer service was fair and reasonable.
In summary, I consider that Mr C had an unfortunate experience here, and I accept its likely 
that he genuinely didnt make the transactions himself.  As, however, there is no clear way in 
which the thief could have known Mr Cs correct PIN without finding it in the stolen case, I 
find that Chase acted within the regulations when it refused to refund Mr C. So I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2024.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman