DRN-1681459
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about pension advice she received from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited in 1989.
What happened
Mrs B was advised to transfer deferred benefits she held in an occupational pension scheme 
into a personal pension. She began to take some benefits from the personal pension in 1997 
and receives an annuity.
Mrs B complained in 2019. Prudential responded and said that the advice to transfer had 
already been investigated as part of the industry wide Pension Review. That investigation 
had initially concluded that Mrs B had lost out because of the transfer and compensation had 
been calculated and paid. This was paid by way of increasing the annuity payments.
Mrs B remained unhappy. She said that former colleagues were receiving higher pensions 
with annual inflation increases. She referred her complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. She explained the background to the 
Pension Review and said that she didnt think the complaint could be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Prudential had calculated redress in accordance with the Pension Review 
guidance. The Review was designed to provide a final resolution, and there was no 
requirement on a business to make a second calculation at a later date.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She reiterated that former 
colleagues pensions increased year on year, but her annuity didnt.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator 
and there is little that I can add to what she has already said. I know this outcome will 
disappoint Mrs B, but I must reach an impartial decision based on the evidence.
The advice Mrs B received in 1989 was investigated as part of the Pension Review. This 
Review was designed as a one-off exercise, to assess whether individuals had been 
disadvantaged by the advice to transfer and, if so to compensate for any loss.
Prudential compensated Mrs B for losses arising out of the pension transfer advice in 2002. 
It may be true that the sum she accepted has not in fact put her in the same position she 
would have been in had she not transferred her pension in 1989. But Im afraid that doesnt 
mean that I can reconsider the original advice she was given, or reassess the compensation offer as Mrs B wishes.
Im satisfied that Prudential calculated its offer in line with the regulators guidance for the 
Pension Review. The regulator had set a very specific methodology for the calculation of 
loss. And it is that methodology, and the standards from that time that I have to consider in 
this complaint. I cant insist that Prudential make a new calculation now as the Pension 
Review provided for final, one-off payments of compensation and didnt provide for any 
future reassessment. Prudential was only required to carry out the review once, based on 
assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact that these assumptions may not 
have been achieved is not grounds to tell Prudential to redo the calculation. And 
unfortunately, that can be a significant cause of further loss.
Mrs B was in a slightly unusual position at the time of the investigation as she was already 
receiving benefits from the personal pension. However, the Pension Review provided 
guidance on how redress should be calculated. The Review didnt require that the business, 
in this case Prudential, precisely replicate the benefits that may have been payable from the 
original pension scheme. 
And in this case that comparison may not have been possible anyway. That's because there 
was disagreement about whether Mrs B would have been able to take any benefits from the 
original scheme so early. Prudential didnt accept that she would have been eligible for early 
retirement on health grounds. I know Mrs B disagrees with that, but thats not an issue I can 
re-open now, she accepted Prudentials offer in settlement back in 2002. 
I do appreciate Mrs Bs frustration and disappointment, but I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman