DRN-3178484
The complaint
Mrs K complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege Car Insurance have 
settled a claim made against her motor insurance policy unfairly.
What happened
Mrs K says on 13 March 2021 her husband was driving their car, and someone on a 
motorbike hit them from behind. Mrs K says after this happened, she went home and called 
UKI to explain whatd happened. After UKI investigated, they said they were going to offer 
the other party a 50 / 50 split liability  meaning Mrs Ks premiums and no claims discount 
could be affected. Mrs K wasnt happy with this, thinking UKI werent investigating the matter 
properly, so she complained.
UKI explained there was no independent witness evidence, or dash-cam / CCTV footage  
so this would come down to one persons word against another. They felt a 50 / 50 split 
liability was fair and the likely settlement should the matter go to court. UKI added under the 
policy terms theyre allowed to decide this and overall didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K asked us to look into things, saying she felt there was enough evidence to show they 
werent at fault. She and her husband were willing to fight this from beginning to end.
One of our Investigators looked into things. She explained almost all insurance policies have 
a term allowing the insurer to take over, defend or settle a claim as they see fit. UKI also had 
this term, so they were allowed to do so  and she felt having considered all the facts 
provided, theyd done so fairly.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said she was still confident the evidence showed the other partys 
claim had been fabricated, and she refuses to let this slide and be impacted by something 
shes not done wrong. Mrs K said our Investigator had talked about UKI being able to decide 
the claim but didnt think those terms applied when she had evidence showing damage 
versus a fabricated report. She said going to court would impact her, and would cause more 
stress, but she accepts that as she knows shes not at fault. Overall, she felt her evidence 
wasnt being considered properly  and didnt think this kind of term should be allowed in 
insurance policies. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, we cant decide liability thats something for the courts to 
consider. But what we can do is consider whether UKI have acted fairly in reaching the 
outcome to agree a 50 / 50 split liability.
Ive a significant amount of sympathy for Mrs K. If events have happened as shes 
described, then UKIs decision to hold her jointly liable for the incident will feel incredibly 
unfair. But I have to make it clear Id expect UKI to consider what can be proved, based on 
the evidence provided  and if that evidence isnt strong enough, then their decision is likely 
fair.
UKI have explained to Mrs K there are no independent witnesses, no dashcam footage and 
no CCTV either. If any of this information was available, it could support Mrs Ks version of 
events, but unfortunately for Mrs K there isnt.
So, the only real evidence in Mrs Ks case is the photos taken at the time of the accident  
along with the total loss report for the motorbike produced by the other partys insurer. The 
report says:
The machine has sustained a frontal impact misaligning the front forks and damaging 
fittings. Secondary damage to the left side is consistent with the motorscooter falling and 
grounding on the road surface
UKI and Mrs K provided us with a copy of this report, and on Mrs Ks version shes 
underlined the words I have (they werent underlined in the original report). I think this is 
Mrs K pointing to this as evidence of why the accident didnt happen as described. But, the 
first part of the damage might not be obvious as it talks about damage to fittings, and the 
second part of the damage cant be proven it didnt happen from the photos provided. They 
show the bike standing, but that doesnt mean the bike hadnt fallen over at one point.
I can see UKI referred the claim to several internal departments to investigate  in order to 
be thorough before deciding whether to dispute liability or not. And, overall, all the 
departments came back saying they didnt have evidence to dispute the liability.
I can understand why Mrs K wants to take the matter to court, as shes confident shell be 
proven shes right. But, as UKI said, they have the right to decide what to do as per their 
policy terms which says, under a section called When we can act on your behalf:
Were entitled to do either of the following:
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, ir in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
Start legal proceedings in your name, or in the name of any other person connected 
to this policy. This can be for your benefit or our own benefit.
Ive seen Mrs Ks comments that this kind of term shouldnt be allowed in an insurance 
policy, and is unfair. But, this kind of term is present in virtually all motor policies Ive seen  
and my understanding of its purpose is to allow the insurer to use its experience to decide 
the best course of action. Naturally, people can feel quite strongly about issues so will want 
to take things as far as possible, but wont always have the understanding of what that can 
mean. In some cases, it could mean an individual becoming financially liable for significantly 
more than they otherwise would be if the insurer didnt settle it.
Ultimately, I cant decide if this kind of term shouldnt be allowed in insurance policies as a 
whole  I can only only look at Mrs Ks circumstances. And, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think UKI have acted fairly in agreeing a 50 / 50 split liability. So, I wont be telling 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman