DRN-3146222
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way that AWP Assistance UK Ltd dealt with his home emergency 
claim for boiler breakdown.
What happened
On 10 January 2021 Mr P contacted AWP as his boiler had broken down leaving him and his 
family without heating or hot water. He was initially told the engineer would attend on 
12 January but he persuaded the engineer to come on 11 January as his wife was ill and his 
son studying for exams. The engineer who attended said there was a small leak and that 
parts needed to be ordered to fix the boiler. The leak would be repaired at the same time. 
Mr P then called the engineer and AWP twice a day until 15 January to check for progress. 
On 16 January he was told the repair was approved. He was told on 18 January an engineer 
would call the next day. Mr P rang that day to query why he hadnt been sent a text about 
the engineer coming and was told that the engineer had got to Mr Ps home but drove off 
without advising Mr P as he didnt have the right parts.
An appointment was scheduled for 21 January but again this was cancelled for lack of the 
parts needed. Mr P reported that the leak had spread, causing damage to the thermostat 
and to his daughters bedroom.
AWP arranged for an engineer from the boiler manufacturer to attend on 25 January. He 
drained the water supply, reset the boiler and fixed the leak. This fixed the boiler, showing 
the parts werent needed. Essentially the problem had been misdiagnosed by the first 
engineer. Unfortunately due to the damage to the thermostat the boiler still couldnt supply 
heating and hot water. Mr P advised AWP who told him its engineer (who had been booked 
to attend with the other engineer) would bring a new thermostat with him. But he didnt have 
the part when he arrived.
Mr Ps heating was fixed temporarily on 26 January and finally fixed permanently on 
27 January 2021.
Mr P complained that he was left without heating or hot water when his wife was ill and his 
son studying. He had had to borrow heaters from a neighbour (though AWP did offer to fund 
the cost of two small heaters) and had to rely on a gas fire in his front room. He pointed out 
that his electricity bill for January was very high because of this. He also said that because 
the leak damaged his daughters bedroom he had had to make a claim on his home 
insurance, paying a £250 excess. AWP apologised for the poor customer service and 
offered compensation of £40. Mr Ps home insurer wrote to AWP seeking to recover its 
outlay and the excess.
Our investigator thought that Mr P should be paid £250 compensation and that AWP should 
pay the electricity bill for January 2021. She didnt recommend that AWP pay the excess but 
asked it if it would consider this. AWP agreed the compensation but has given us no 
information about the excess, despite us asking on several occasions. I asked the 
investigator to advise AWP that I would be directing that it pay the excess. It hasnt 
responded.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr P was given a poor service by AWP and its various engineers both in respect of 
the diagnosis of the fault and in its customer service to Mr P over the course of 17 days. If 
the engineers were waiting for parts to be supplied then they couldnt be faulted if they 
couldnt complete the repair. But by not attending, or attending and driving away without 
advising Mr P this caused him more unnecessary inconvenience and frustration in having to 
chase up.
On top of that it appears that the fault with the boiler was misdiagnosed and all that was 
needed was to drain the system and fix the water leak. This could have been done on the 
first appointment saving Mr P and his family the great inconvenience of being without 
heating or hot water for 17 days during the winter. I understand they had electric heaters and 
a gas fire but they were no substitute for the heating system being fully functional.
The fact that the boiler had an unrepaired leak for the 17 days caused further problems  the 
thermostat broke and Mr Ps daughters bedroom was affected by the water coming in. He 
had to claim on his home insurance and pay £250 excess. I dont think that the damage 
would have occurred but for the misdiagnosis of the problem with the boiler in the first place.
I think AWP should pay Mr P £250 compensation. In addition to this it should pay his 
electricity bill for the month of January 2021. I understand that the details of the bill have 
already been given to AWP. However I wont award interest on it, as Mr P would have had to 
pay for electricity used that month in any event.
As for the excess, as Ive said AWP hasnt given us the information about this. Im aware 
that Mr Ps home insurer wrote to it in March 2021 seeking to recover its outlay and Mr Ps 
excess. Mr P hasnt to date had that excess returned. I think its fair that AWP refund the 
excess and add interest from the date it was paid by Mr P until it reimburses him.
Putting things right
AWP should pay Mr P £250 compensation.
It should further pay his electricity bill for the month of January 2021.
It should also pay Mr P £250 representing the excess he had to pay for his home insurance 
claim. It should add 8% per year simple interest from the date Mr P paid that sum, until 
reimbursement.
AWP Assistance UK Ltd is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr P request it, it should provide him with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AWP Assistance UK Ltd to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman