DRN-4034975
The complaint
Miss T complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream gave her a loan without 
carrying out adequate affordability checks. Had Lending Stream carried out further checks it 
wouldve discovered she was a full-time student and she wasnt working. 
What happened
Miss T was advanced one instalment loan by Lending Stream. She borrowed £600 on 
15 December 2019.  She was due to make five monthly repayments of £182.31 and then a 
final payment of £181.03. Miss T has had problems repaying this loan and this loan is 
currently being repaid through a debt management plan with an independent third party. 
Following Miss Ts complaint Lending Stream wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to 
uphold it because it had carried out proportionate affordability checks. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss T referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt think Miss Ts complaint 
should be upheld because in her view, Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks 
which showed the loan to be affordable. 
Miss T didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and instead asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss T could afford to pay back the 
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ts income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss T. These factors 
include:
Miss T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss T. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss T was able 
to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint.
As part of her application, Miss T declared a monthly income of £1,750. Lending Stream 
says it didnt feel it needed to make any adjustments to this income figure based on what it 
knew about Miss T.  
Miss T also declared monthly outgoings of £780. This was broken down as £200 per month 
for credit commitments and £580 for normal expenses. However, Lending Stream says that 
as a result of independent checks, it increased its estimation of Miss Ts living costs by a 
further £207. 
Lending Stream believed, based on the information Miss T provided she had around £763 
per month in disposable income to afford her largest repayment of £182.31. Therefore, it 
wouldve been reasonable for it to believe this loan was affordable for Miss T. 
Before the loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Miss T s application.
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt in my view anything that wouldve led 
Lending Stream to have carried out further checks. I say this because It knew Miss T had 14 
active accounts and Miss T hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last three years nor 
had any accounts entered delinquency within the previous 12 months. 
I note Miss Ts comments that she says she was a full-time student and Lending Stream 
shouldve done enough checks to uncover this. But given that this was Miss Ts first loan, I 
think the checks it did carry out were proportionate and appropriate and I dont think it need 
to do anything more than it did.Given it was early on in the lending relationship  and Miss T was only granted one loan, 
I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on the information Miss T 
provided to it  which showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments. There also wasnt anything to suggest that Miss T was having either current 
financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman