DRN-1979134
The complaint
Mr & Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited (HSBC) refused to refund all the cash advance and interest fees charged as a result 
of payments made to a pre-paid currency-based debit card. 
What happened
Mr H is an additional card holder on his wifes HSBC  credit card. Mr H says he  made a 
substantial number of transfers to a pre-paid currency debit card and had never been 
charged for doing this. Mr H noticed on his wifes credit card statement that fees were 
suddenly being charged for these transfers. Mr H contacted HSBC to question this and was 
told that his currency debit card provider had changed their merchant category code with 
Mastercard and as a result transfers to this card would now be charged.  Mr H complained 
that he was never informed of the change and if he had been told he wouldnt have carried 
out transfers using this credit card. 
HSBC as a gesture of goodwill agreed to refund the previous months fees and interest 
totalling £157.41 but said future charges he had accrued would not be refunded as they 
were not responsible for the changes made by his currency pre-paid debit card provider. 
Mr  H was unhappy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr & Mrs H complaint 
as she felt that his currency prepaid debit card provider had implemented the changes to 
their merchant category code which would affect the charges for these transactions, not 
HSBC. The investigator says that the terms and conditions of the credit card clearly state 
how cash transactions are charged so HSBC had acted fairly. 
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When considering Mr & Mrs Hs complaint, I have looked at whether HSBC unfairly charged 
the fees and interest when Mr & Mrs H made transfers to a pre-paid currency-based debit 
card. 
I can understand that Mr & Mrs H would be disappointed to see that they were suddenly 
being charged for transactions they hadnt previously, especially given the volume of 
transactions made. 
Mr H says that he was never informed of the change in the charges for these types of 
transactions as if he had known he wouldnt have used the HSBC credit card in this way. 
From the information I have seen the changes, to what is known as the merchant category 
code, were made by his pre-paid currency debit card provider. The codes are used to 
correctly  identify the type of goods and services provided. HSBC  have confirmed to this 
service that all retailers have a merchant category code which summarises the type of 
business they are. If a retailer or their bank decides to change the code, that is their 
decision.
HSBC says that they were not informed of these changes made and these changes merely 
reflect the correct merchant category code that should have been in place. During a 
telephone conversation with HSBC I have listened to, Mr H by his own admission says that 
other credit card providers charge for this type of transaction, so this was something he was 
aware of.
I am satisfied what happened here is the codes have been changed to correctly identify the 
business type and service provided, this now reflects these transactions as cash transfers 
where a fee is payable in line with the terms and conditions of Mr & Mrs H credit card with 
HSBC. On balance, from the information I have seen I am satisfied these changes were 
implemented by the pre-paid currency debit card provider. I cant see that HSBC were 
informed of these changes to the merchant category code and as a result werent able to 
advise Mr & Mrs H of this. If Mr & Mrs H feel they should have been advised by their pre-
paid currency debit card provider, they may wish to take this up with them directly.
I can see that HSBC have refunded fees and charges applied when Mr H complained as a 
gesture of goodwill which they werent obliged to do but have recognised the relationship 
here. Subsequent interest and charges made are in line with the terms and conditions of the 
credit card with HSBC and I cant see that HSBC have acted incorrectly in charging these. 
Mr H says that he is concerned that the fees charged could affect his credit rating although I 
can see no evidence that it has, even so HSBC are obliged to report an accurate record of 
the credit card transactions to the relevant credit reference agencies. While Mr & Mrs H will 
be disappointed with my decision it follows that I wont be asking anymore of HSBC here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman