DRN-4151850
The complaint
Mr M complains West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) did not offer a fair market value for his 
car when it was written off in an accident.
West Bay Insurance Plc are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this 
complaint concerns the actions of the broker. As West Bay have accepted they are 
accountable for the actions of the broker, in my decision, any reference to West Bay includes 
the actions of the broker.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr M made a claim on his motor insurance policy after he lost control of his 
car after hitting water on the motorway. No other vehicles were involved.
In February 2022 the car was declared a total loss by West Bay. It initially valued the car at 
£85,000 which was increased to £95,000 after further research was undertaken.
Mr M said this was an undervaluation. He said his car had a full-service history, average 
mileage and was in excellent condition. He wanted a valuation nearer £110,000 which he felt 
was the market value.
Mr M also complained West Bay caused delays with his claim. It accepted Mr M experienced 
long hold times when he made calls, and there was a delay with its engineers reviewing the 
second price dispute. It paid Mr M £100 for the poor serviced received but it did not change 
its settlement offer.
As Mr M was not happy with West Bay, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said its difficult 
to obtain a like for like match for a classic car. They said the approach to the valuation and 
amount offered from West Bay was reasonable. They said the £100 paid for the 
acknowledged delays was in line with what we would expect.
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this, and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices
As Mr Ms car is a prestigious classic car this approach is not possible as we were only able 
to obtain one trade guide valuation. This was £89,500. 
I looked at the information West Bay used when calculating the final settlement value of 
Mr Ms car. I saw after he contested the first offer it reviewed five cars that were for sale that 
were of the same brand and similar model and specification. I saw the advertised sale prices 
ranged from £74,995 to £95,950.
I saw in March 2022 Mr M took some time researching advertised sales prices of a number 
of the same brand and similar model of cars that were for sale. The advertised sales prices 
ranged from £85,000 to £129,995 for a UK car. He provided a spreadsheet in which he had 
made a comparison of the condition and sales price of these cars against the condition and 
specification of his own car. 
Mr M said he had been unable to find a car for sale that was as good as his for the £95,000
Offered by West Bay. 
I understand Mr M said he wants his claim to be settled based on the details and condition of 
his specific car but as the car is a classic it is impossible to be exact with this. I saw Mr M 
provided a valuation that said his car was valued at £110,000 in early 2016. As this valuation 
was more than 5 years before the incident and as the price of this type of car may go up or 
down, I have not taken this into consideration.  
I considered the time taken to complete the valuations and I dont think the delay in looking 
to obtain a valuation will have changed the valuation of this type of car.
I looked at the terms and conditions of the motor insurance policy. On page 5 it says;
Market Value -The cost of replacing your vehicle, if this is possible, with one of a similar 
make, model, year, mileage and condition.
In section 4, on page 11 it says;
The most we will pay
If your vehicle was first registered from new in the UK, the most we will pay will be its market 
value immediately before the accident or loss.
I looked at the details of Mr Ms motor insurance policy and the sum insured for his car was 
recorded as £95,000. I think If Mr M had considered the valuation was so much more than 
this, he should have highlighted this to West Bay at inception and at renewal of his policy. 
I understand that this car was cherished by Mr M, and he kept it in good condition, but I think 
West Bay have provided enough evidence to justify its valuation, plus the offer also reflects 
the sum insured of the vehicle from the policys last renewal date. I therefore think £95,000 is 
a fair reflection of market value at the time of loss. 
I agree the service given by West Bay could have been better after Mr M contested the initial 
valuation of his car. I saw West Bay accepted this, and paid him £100 to take into 
consideration the poor serviced received. I think this is a fair amount in these circumstances.
Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint and do not require West Bay to do anything further 
in this case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman