DRN-4365549
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Plan (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
The scheme trustees provided Mr D with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) on 11
August 2017. It showed that Mr D had 27 years and 9 months membership with a total 
deferred pension of £16,569 pa.
Mr D was referred to IFM by another financial adviser who didnt have the required
permissions to advise on defined benefit pensions. IFM sent Mr D a questionnaire to record 
his personal circumstances and attitude to risk on 4 September 2017.
Mr D was 48, in good health, had a non-married partner and no children, had a retirement 
age of 60 (58 ideally), and was also a member of his employers defined contribution 
scheme, paying in 6% of his salary with his employer also paying in another 10% and also 
providing four times his salary as a death in service benefit.
Mr D indicated that the BSPS pension represented the majority of his retirement provision, 
and that increasing death benefits, even at the cost of his own retirement needs, was a 
priority. Mr D also indicated that he wanted flexibility in how his pension was paid and 
wanted the highest tax-free lump sum possible, and also that he was concerned about the 
security of his pension. It was also indicated on the questionnaire that Mr D was a low risk, 
conservative investor.
IFM provided its advice in a suitability report dated 13 November 2017. According to the
report, the transfer value of the BSPS pension was £417,899. IFMs recommendation was to
transfer the BSPS pension into a PPP with Royal London. Concerning Mr Ds objectives, the 
report from IFM said the following:
As a result of our discussions, it became clear that you are attracted to the flexibility of the
personal pension and imagine this will suit your retirement needs better than a fixed income
for life. Equally, it is very important to you that you are in control of your retirement provisions
and that you can draw benefits when you want rather than being bound by scheme rules and
trustee discretion. Ensuring your pension will not die with you and allowing it to be fully
inherited by your family is also a key objective of yours.
IFM said that, at Mr Ds preferred retirement age of 60, he could expect to receive an annual 
pension of £13,600 or £9,300 with a tax-free lump sum of £62,200. IFM provided a cash flow 
analysis assuming that Mr D drew income at the same rate as the BSPS pension from age 
60 and his pension achieved a growth rate of 4% pa after fees (and inflation at 2.5%). The 
forecast showed that the fund would last until age 99.
IFM also calculated critical yields (the minimum annual growth rate needed) that the CETV
would need to achieve to purchase a risk-free annuity with the same income as the BSPS
pension as typically around 8% pa at age 65. IFM said the following:
Our analysis has identified that the transfer values being offered fail to reflect the true value
of the current British Steel Scheme pension. However, the analysis has also identified that
when using the drawdown alternative, relatively modest investment returns are required in
order to match the pension available from the scheme and sustain it well into your old age
(as shown in the chart above).
From our discussions, it is clear that you place a higher value on having choice and control
over your pension fund than having a guaranteed lifetime income. Moreover, your desire to
retire early may not be satisfied by the British Steel Scheme and/or the PPF and neither will
they give you the flexibility you require. Equally, you are very uncomfortable about the
schemes future prospects and on balance feel the personal pension option is better for you
even with the associated investment risks.
Mr D accepted the advice to transfer. But he later complained about IFMs advice after 
receiving a letter from the FCA explaining that he might have received unsuitable advice. 
IFM didnt uphold the complaint, as it felt the advice satisfied Mr Ds objectives. 
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr D referred the matter to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests. 
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was quoted as being 
around 8%. The discount rate for 16 years to retirement was 4.3% and, taking into 
account Mr Ds attitude to risk, along with the regulators low, mid and high band 
growth projections of 2%, 5% and 8% respectively, it was unlikely that the scheme 
benefits could be bettered through transferring. The critical yields were unlikely to be 
achievable.
The available evidence didnt support the position that Mr D needed flexibility in 
retirement, nor that he had a need to access his tax free cash and leave the 
remainder invested until a later date. 
Further, Mr Ds defined contribution accrual could have been used to address any 
flexibility requirement.
In terms of death benefits, it was natural that Mr D would want his loved ones to be 
taken care of in the event of his death. But IFM hadnt done enough to explore to 
what extent Mr D was willing to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for 
lump sum death benefits. And the size of any lump sum would in any case depend 
on how much remained in the pension fund in the event of Mr Ds death.
Additionally, no dependants had been recorded as being reliant upon Mr D. He had a 
partner, to whom he wasnt married, but it was possible that, at the trustees 
discretion, the spouses pension could have been payable to them. Mr D also had 
death in service benefits, along with the value of the defined contributions.
Mr Ds desire for control over his pension funds had been overstated. He wasnt an 
experienced investor and there was nothing to suggest that he wished to manage his 
pension funds.
Mr D may have had concerns about the prospects for the BSPS, but these concerns 
should have been managed and addressed by IFM.
The investigator recommended that IFM undertake a loss calculation in accordance with 
regulators policy statement PS22/13, and as set out in the regulators handbook in DISP 
App 4  and, given that Mr D intended to retire early, on the basis that Mr D would have 
opted to join the PPF. Mr D planned to retire at age 60, and so this was the age which 
should be used in the calculation, the investigator said.
If the redress was paid directly to Mr D, IFM could make a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Neither party submitted any further comments on the merits of the case in response to the 
investigators assessment.
But as agreement hasnt been reached on the outcome, its been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
IFM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Ds best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which IFM was required to carry out by the regulator said that the 
critical yield - how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was around 8% 
to match the benefits hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. To 
match them at 60, or earlier, this would have been higher still. 
Given Mr Ds recorded conservative attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.3% to age 
65 (which would have been lower to age 60), and the regulators lower and middle 
projection rate for growth (2% and 5% pa respectively), I think Mr D was more likely 
than not to receive pension benefits, from either age 60 or 65, of a lower value than 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 by transferring and investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. 
The critical yield to match the PPF benefits at age 65 was quoted as being around 
4%. I think it would be unusual for this be roughly half the critical yield required to 
match the BSPS benefits, but as I cant see a copy of the transfer value analysis on the file, this is difficult to verify. But even if Im to accept this, the critical yield to 
match the PPF benefits at age 60 would have been higher than this. And as above, 
given Mr Ds conservative risk rating, the discount rate to that age and the regulators 
standard growth projections, I also think that it was unlikely that the PPF benefits 
would be matched by Mr D transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk.
Early retirement was clearly appealing to Mr D, as it might reasonably be appealing 
to a great many people, but I cant see that there was any clear analysis of the 
income which Mr D might actually need in retirement. And so its difficult to determine 
the feasibility of Mr D retiring early through either drawdown or with the scheme 
benefits. 
A retirement scenario report prepared by IFM seemed to indicate a target income of 
£22,000 pa (although this rather confusingly seemed to suggest that, with a 
retirement date of 67, Mr Ds money would run out by age 66). But if Mr D required 
flexibility, this would have been possible by accessing the tax free cash and benefits 
which would have been available from the 12 years defined contribution accrual by 
age 60. Mr D could expect a scheme pension at 60 of around £13,600 pa at the date 
of leaving the scheme, which would be revalued in the 12 years up to age 60  on 
the basis of, say, a modest 2% pa revaluation, it would therefore be around £17,000 
pa from age 60. And given Mr Ds income and overall contribution to the defined 
contribution scheme, I think it was more likely than not that any shortfall could be 
made up by accessing those benefits flexibly before the state pension began.
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his partner, the 
priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement. While the 
CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer would likely be different if Mr D was 
drawing upon it, especially to a significant degree in the early years after retirement. 
It would also be dependent on investment performance, and so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr D may have thought it would. 
My understanding is that Mr D wasnt married to his partner, and whether or not a 
spouses pension would be payable to the partner in the event of Mr Ds death would 
be at the discretion of the trustees. But there was also the five year guaranteed 
period of full payment after the pension had begun to be paid.
Further, as with the investigator, I cant see that it was clearly evidenced as to why 
Mr Ds partner would have a need for lump sum benefits. Mr D had no dependent 
children, and there are no details relating to the partners own pension provision - but 
it seems likely that they would in any case have their own state pension. They would 
further likely have benefitted from any unused value remaining in Mr Ds defined 
contribution plan in the event of his death. 
And this of course presupposes that Mr D would remain unmarried - with another 12 
years until prospective retirement, Mr Ds circumstances could have changed. There 
was no recorded prospect of Mr D marrying at the time of the advice, and so I havent 
factored this specifically into the suitability assessment, but given the number of 
years to retirement, and the benefits to be gained by retirement age for Mr D (or 
rather a spouse) if indeed he did marry, I think its worth noting that this cant 
necessarily be ruled out as a possibility. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. There was no identified need for a lump sum, over and above the benefits which would have been paid through either 
death in service benefits, the scheme provisions for death after retirement, or the 
fund value which would have accrued through Mr Ds defined contributions. 
My view is that IFM shouldnt have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the potential for 
alternative death benefits through a PPP over his own security in retirement.
I also think Mr Ds desire for control over how his pension was invested was likely 
overstated. As with the investigator, I cant see that he had an interest in managing, 
or the knowledge to be able to do so, his pension funds on his own. Given his risk 
attitude and lack of other experience, I dont think that this was likely a genuine 
objective for Mr D  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his 
defined benefit scheme.
Mr D may have held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension and 
the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was IFMs role to objectively address those 
concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being 
established. But even if not, the PPF would still provide Mr D with guaranteed income 
and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr D was unlikely to improve on these 
benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might 
have thought  indeed for those planning early retirement, it in fact offered enhanced 
terms - and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was 
in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr D would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in 
the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received 
from IFM was unsuitable.
Putting things right
I consider that it would be appropriate to use the BSPS-specific calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
In terms of the option Mr D would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ds pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. But as Mr D was single at the time, and unless he had undisclosed plans 
to marry, I dont think this particular enhancement over the PPF benefits would have had 
much resonance for him at that time.The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
Mr D intended to retire at 60, and indeed, as set out above, it seemed likely that he would be 
able to do so on the basis of his anticipated income requirement and the benefits which 
would be payable from all sources of pension provision. 
And so this would have been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up 
whether he should opt for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move 
into the PPF. Given what Ive noted above, I consider Mr D would more likely than not have 
remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the PPF if suitable advice 
had been given.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to 
Mr D and our service upon completion of the calculation.
As Mr D intends to retire at 60, compensation should be based on a calculation to that age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Inspirational Financial Management Ltd should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Inspirational Financial Management Ltds offer to calculate how much 
of its redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge 
Mr D for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Inspirational Financial Management Ltd to pay 
Mr D the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I would also 
recommend that Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Inspirational Financial Management Ltd. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr D could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman