DRN-1409851
 
The complaint
 Mrs A's complaint concerns what she considers to be the mis-selling of her motor insurance 
policy by BISL Limited. 
She is represented by her husband in bringing the complaint. I'll refer to his submissions as 
being from her.
What happened
 In 2015 Mrs A took out a motor insurance policy online through a price comparison website 
and was then transferred to a website which is administered by BISL (though it is branded 
differently). In December 2018 Mrs A's husband was involved in an accident. Mrs A 
understood her insurance provided a courtesy car while the insured car couldn't be used. 
The insurer didn't agree to this aspect of the claim because the cover only applied if the car 
was being repaired. In Mrs A's instance the car was declared a write-off and therefore didn't 
qualify for courtesy car benefit.
Mrs A hired a car anyway at a cost of around £400. The insurer didn't pay for it, so she 
referred the matter to BISL to consider. In particular, she said that features listed on BISL's 
website when she first bought the policy were unclear and misleading because they 
suggested that a courtesy car would be provided. BISL didn't agree so the complaint was 
referred to this service.
Our investigator said he didn't think the website or policy documents were unclear or 
misleading so didnt conclude the policy was mis-sold. He said the complaint shouldn't be 
upheld.
Mrs A responded saying that it wasn't clear on BISL's website that the insurer would 
distinguish between cars in for repair and cars declared a write-off. She also said that due to 
the age of her car it was likely to be declared a write-off in the event of an accident. So, on 
this basis, she felt the wording on BISL's website was misleading and the policy 
inappropriate for her.
Finally, Mrs A said she doesn't see the difference between the two (repair or write-off) 
because they both would've had the same impact on her daily life and 
necessitated temporary use of another car. So the complaint has been referred to me for 
final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
 Those who sell insurance have a responsibility to provide clear and fair information about the 
cover provided, so that consumers can make an informed decision about whether or not to 
buy it. To make an informed decision about whether to take a policy out, a consumer should 
be made aware of the main cover and any significant or unusual restrictions. Mrs As policy 
doesnt provide cover for a courtesy car in the event her car is a total loss. I dont think this is 
an unusual term because a number of motor policies I am aware of wouldnt provide this as 
standard (unless it was taken out as an added extra) so I dont think BISL has to highlight it 
over any other terms. 
Mrs A bought the policy through a price comparison website and was then transferred to 
BISLs website to complete the sale. BISLs website specifies that a courtesy car is available 
but states that limits apply to this cover. Upon expanding that page it says the courtesy car is 
provided only when the policy holders own car is being repaired and that it is not 
guaranteed. It also says that a courtesy car would only be provided where the policyholder 
uses  the insurers approved repairer and that this is subject to availability. It adds that cover 
normally excludes fault claims where the car is written off.
On BISLs website there is also the option to upgrade so that a replacement car is 
guaranteed and will also be provided even if the insureds car is a total loss. Having seen the 
policy schedules I dont think Mrs A selected this option so she didnt add the guaranteed car 
option onto her cover. There is also legal expenses cover that could provide a replacement 
car in case of a non-fault accident but Mrs A doesnt seem to have selected this option 
either. 
As I said above I have looked at Mrs As policy schedule and renewal documents. The first 
page of her renewal letters from 2015 through to 2018 say that a courtesy car will be 
provided if an approved repairer fixes her car (subject to availability). 
Overall I think the information on BISLs website and on the policy documents it issued to 
Mrs A was sufficiently clear and fair to have enabled her to make an informed decision. And I 
think the option of adding the guaranteed car cover was made clear to Mrs A and couldve 
alerted her to the fact that the standard courtesy car option came with limitations. 
I'm generally sympathetic to the situation Mrs A was in. But the available evidence - both the 
online sales process and renewal notices - show that BISL provided information about 
courtesy car cover that was clear and not misleading. On this basis I don't conclude that the 
policy was mis-sold. Nor do I have any basis to direct BISL to refund the car hire costs Mrs A 
incurred.
Mrs A said that whatever the status of her insured car - in for repair or written off - 
amounted to the same impact on her in that she needed a temporary replacement. And that 
her new insurer has included this feature in her current policy. I have no reason to doubt 
what she says but this wasn't something her previous insurer included in the standard level 
of cover she had and it doesn't mean that BISL is obliged to take this into account now.
Mrs A also mentioned that because of the low value of her car it would have always been a 
total loss. She added that she shouldnt have been sold a fully comprehensive cover and 
that third party cover wouldve been more suitable. But this wasnt an advised sale i.e. BISL 
didnt recommend the policy to her so I cant say its responsible for the level of cover she 
took out. 
 My final decision
 For the reasons I've given, I'm not upholding this  complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman