DRN-3240686
The complaint
Ms H opened a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) in 
June 2011. Ms H says that she was not told that she could have an overdraft on a fee free 
account.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think BOS had mis-sold the URCA. 
Because Ms H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Hs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Ms H was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. Firstly, I note that Ms H had held a fee-
free account with BOS prior to when she took out the URCA . So I think she would have 
known that in general fee-free accounts were available from BOS. 
Ms H says she was not made aware that she could have an overdraft on a fee free account, 
but she has not said that she was told that this was the only account available with an 
overdraft. I think it is more likely that she was told that by having the URCA she could have a 
fee free overdraft of up to £300 (subject to application).
To explain BOS charged a daily fee that was tiered depending on the level an account 
holder was overdrawn. The URCA offered a £300 buffer limit, so account holders would not 
have to pay a daily overdraft fee if they were overdrawn up to £300. Whereas free accounts 
at the time incurred a daily overdraft usage fee of £1 a day if they were overdrawn up to 
£300. 
Looking at Ms Hs bank statements around the time the account was taken out I can see that 
her overdraft limit was £100 and that she frequently used this overdraft limit. This means that 
she avoided the £1 a day fee that she wouldve been charged had she had a fee free 
account. So I think that she was likely made aware that she could have an overdraft on a fee 
free account, but it would not be free and therefore she chose the URCA as it came with a 
fee free overdraft and insurance benefits that she went on to use.
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. I 
can see that Ms H made eight claims on the breakdown cover and made a claim on the 
mobile phone insurance. I can also see no reason as to why Ms H could not use the travel 
insurance if she wished to do so.
Overall, while I do appreciate what Ms H has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its 
more likely she agreed to the account because she was attracted to the overall package of 
benefits.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore BOS did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Ms H. It did though have to give Ms H enough information 
to decide this for herself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Ms H to 
make the account seem attractive. I accept that Ms H may not have been given all the 
information about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific that Ms 
H was not told that I think wouldve changed her decision to take out the account. 
On balance, I think Ms H agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that she didnt have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because at the time she was interested in the benefits 
on the account, although I accept that Ms H may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Ms H. Its clear that Ms H feels strongly that 
the account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have 
provided value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just because Ms H 
may not have received value for money, I can only say an account was mis-sold if something 
went wrong during the sales process and in this instance I dont think that this was the case.
My final decision
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman