DRN-3138608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say their mortgage with Aldermore Bank Plc was unaffordable and was mis-
sold. They ask for compensation. Mr and Mrs H are represented by a family member, who Ill 
refer to as Mr B.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a commercial mortgage in late 2007. A broker recommended the 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs H. 
Aldermore wasnt the original lender. It acquired Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account and 
became responsible for the actions of the original lender. For ease though, Ill refer to 
Aldermore throughout. 
Mr and Mrs H repaid the mortgage in 2019. Mr B says Aldermore shouldnt have offered the 
mortgage as it wasnt suitable. He said personal debts were consolidated and the mortgage 
term went past Mr and Mrs Hs retirement age. He says they had to sell their home to repay 
the mortgage. 
Our investigator said Aldermore wasnt responsible for the advice given by the broker that 
recommended the mortgage. He said Aldermore didnt make an error when it offered the 
mortgage and if Mr and Mrs H were in financial difficulty they didnt make Aldermore aware 
of this.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Aldermore should have carried out a fact find to establish whether 
the mortgage was suitable (he says it wasnt). He said Mr and Mrs H were vulnerable 
customers. And there was clear evidence of obfuscation in Aldermores complaints process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Rules on mortgage regulation changed in 2014 and lenders are now required to carry out 
stringent affordability tests before offering a mortgage. But this wasnt the case when Mr and 
Mrs H took out their mortgage in 2007. This mortgage was recommended to Mr and Mrs H 
by a third-party broker. Regulations in place at that time said it was the broker that 
recommended the mortgage who was responsible for checking it was suitable (including that 
it was affordable). 
Mr B says the test here is a simple one  what fact finding should Aldermore have done 
under these circumstances. I can give Mr B a simple answer. Aldermore didnt need to carry 
out a fact find because it didnt recommend the mortgage and wasnt responsible for 
ensuring it was suitable. 
Mr B says the broker acted as Aldermores agent. I havent seen evidence to support this. I 
dont think its reasonable to say that Aldermore is responsible for the actions of the broker. 
More likely the broker acted on behalf of Mr and Mrs H in sourcing and recommending a 
mortgage to them. I think Aldermore was right to say that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about 
the advice they received should be referred to the broker.
Mr B says Aldermore should have offered a regulated mortgage rather than a commercial 
mortgage as more than 40% of the property was used for residential purposes. This is 
supported by the valuation report. However, the application form says this wasnt the case. 
The application made on behalf of Mr and Mrs H was for a commercial mortgage and said 
the property would be used for their business and as a residence. I assume Mr and Mrs H 
lived at the property, which wouldnt have been unusual given the nature of their business.
In any case, I dont think the outcome of this complaint would have been different if the 
application had been for a regulated mortgage. It would still have been the responsibility of 
the broker recommending the mortgage to ensure it was suitable. 
Aldermore did make a lending decision. In doing so, it was entitled to apply its lending 
criteria and to rely on the information provided by the broker, including any information about 
Mr and Mrs Hs financial situation. As this was a self-certified mortgage (permitted by 
regulations at that time) its likely Aldermore would have received limited evidence of Mr and 
Mrs Hs financial situation and would have relied on what it was told by them and their 
broker. Aldermore didnt have to carry out its own fact find or ask for further evidence to 
assess whether the mortgage was suitable.
Mr B says Mr and Mrs H fell into a number of vulnerable customer categories when they took 
out the mortgage. He didnt say what these vulnerable characteristics were, or provide 
evidence that Aldermore knew about them. 
Mr B isnt happy with Aldermores complaints process. As complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity it isnt something I can look into as a separate issue. I can consider 
problems with complaint handling in some circumstances, for instance if it results in a lender 
taking longer than it should to correct a problem with a customers account. But I cant see 
that was the case here. Mr and Mrs H had repaid the mortgage before the complaint was 
made.
Mr B is also unhappy with how Aldermore responded to his request for information. Again, 
this was after the mortgage was repaid. If Mr B remains concerned about this he can 
consider raising his concerns with the Information Commissioners Office.
Mr B says Mr and Mrs H are in poor health and have financial problems. Im sorry to hear 
this. But based on the available evidence I dont think Aldermore acted unfairly when it 
offered this mortgage. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it 
to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs H.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman