DRN-3545489
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Santander UK Plc blocked their account, as a result he was 
unable to pay his direct debits. He would like compensation for the losses he has suffered. 
Mr and Mrs H are represented by Mr H.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H had an account with Santander. Mr H tried to make a payment to an overseas 
company. He said this was a legitimate payment. Santander stopped the payment and 
blocked the account. Because his account was blocked, he wasnt able to pay his usual 
direct debits.
Mr H requested that Santander switch their direct debits to another account they had with 
another bank Ill call N. Santander blocked this request. After two weeks Santander restored 
the banking facilities and the block on the switch. However, the new switch which was due to 
happen on 5 July 2021 was blocked again. Mr H said his switch took place on 17 July 2021. 
Mr H told us that a cheque for a charity was returned in June 2021. And 26 direct debits and 
payments to his charge card were not honoured.
Mr H switched his pension payments to his account with N as he was unable to access his 
pension.
Mr H also told us that he had incurred losses as a result of the blocking of the account. In 
particular €3,156.50 which he had already sent abroad as a first part payment for legal fees 
and £258 in legal fees for document preparation in the UK.
Mr H complained to Santander. But they didnt uphold his complaint. They said they were 
entitled to block his account and cited their legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr H complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
Santander were entitled to block the accounts. They had done so because they were 
concerned the payments being made abroad were for a potential scam and wanted to 
protect Mr H. He thought that although Santander had made an error during the second 
switch attempt which meant that Mr H wasnt able to switch his account, no financial loss 
had resulted from the second switch not being carried out and Mr H still had access to his 
account.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view. He said Santander hadnt explained they 
were concerned this was a scam. He said Santander had no proof this was a scam payment. 
He also said it took many hours to reinstate the direct debits and many were left unpaid. 
Mr H says he considers that for practical purposes Santander in effect closed their account. 
He also said that during this period of three weeks, but for an existing account with N, they 
would have been left with no income and suffered threats of charges and credit damage.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account block
Mr Hs account was blocked to prevent him from sending money to a potential recovery 
room scam.
Regulations, UK legislation and codes of conduct place extensive obligations on regulated 
financial businesses. In particular financial businesses are subject to the British Standards 
Institute (BSI) code for protecting customers from financial harm. Businesses are required to 
monitor account movements and query out of character transactions which might indicate a 
customer is falling victim to financial harm. Santander has said that Mr Hs account was 
blocked in order to meet these obligations.
Mr H has said he was very inconvenienced when the account was blocked as he had no 
access to money.
Whilst I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling, having looked at the information Santander 
relied upon, I think Santander was trying to protect Mr H from falling victim to a scam and 
they were considering their obligations under the BSI code. As a result, Santander blocked 
not just the international payment Mr H wanted to make but the whole account.
I appreciate that this has been a very stressful situation for Mr and Mrs H. Ive reviewed the 
evidence provided including a call recording on 21 May. I can see Santander had legitimate 
concerns Mr H was falling victim to a recovery room scam. From the evidence provided by 
Mr H he believes the payment was to a genuine organisation that would help him recover 
funds he had previously lost. Mr H remains convinced that is the case. Because of this I 
think there is little Santander could have said that would have convinced him of the potential 
scam. So, I can see Santander wanted to protect Mr H.
I have considered whether Santander should have limited the block to overseas payments 
and allowed Direct debit payments from the account, this would have safeguarded Mr Hs 
direct debits and would have prevented him feeling stress at the thought that his regular 
direct debits werent being paid. I think this would have been a more proportionate way of 
achieving Santanders aim of protecting Mr H from a potential scam. I think Santander 
should have thought about the reason they were blocking the account and realised that 
allowing the direct debit payments to be made wouldnt jeopardise the original intention of 
safeguarding Mr H from falling victim to a potential recovery room scam.
So, because of this I dont think Santander acted fairly in this situation. I accept not being 
able to make the international payment seemed inconvenient to Mr H, but Im satisfied 
Santander acted fairly when they blocked this payment in order to protect Mr H from a 
potential scam. Im satisfied Santander was trying to follow the guidance to protect Mr H. 
Ultimately, they did protect him. I believe this was a scam and Mr H would have fallen victim 
to it had the payment not been blocked. But ultimately Santander could have achieved their 
aim by blocking international payments only.
Mr H has mentioned that Santander should have given them 30 days notice of their intention 
to block the account. Mr H refers to information on the financial ombudsman website. I have 
looked at the information on our website and the information I think Mr H refers to relates to 
closures and not account blocks. In general, because of the types of reasons that banks 
have to block an account I wouldnt expect them to give notice of their intention to block an 
account. So, I dont think that Santander in this case have done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr H notice of their intention to block his account.Mr H had a visit from the police regarding concerns about the money he intended to send 
abroad. Santander unblocked the account only after Mr H provided assurances that he 
would not make the international transfer.
As the investigator has said I think given their genuine concerns Santander did the right 
thing when they blocked Mr Hs payment. I know Mr H says it was like an account closure 
because he couldnt access any money in his account or make payments, but Im satisfied 
this was an account block.
I know Mr H thinks that because the payment he wanted to make through Santander was 
blocked, he has lost the first instalment he already paid and has asked that Santander 
should pay for these losses. I know Mr H believes that the payments he was making were to 
a genuine organisation that would help him recover substantial financial losses he had 
previously incurred. However, having looked at the evidence I think its more likely Mr H was 
becoming a victim of a recovery room scam. I think Santander had well founded suspicions 
about the payment Mr H was attempting to make. And by blocking the payment Santander 
has prevented a further loss occurring. I think they acted fairly in not allowing him to make 
the international payment. It follows I dont think Mr H can recover the losses he has incurred 
of €3,156.50 and £258 from Santander and I wont be asking Santander to pay these 
amounts.
Switching the account
Mr H has said he was unhappy with the way Santander treated him and therefore wanted to 
switch accounts. The switch request would have come from N to Santander and Santander 
would have sent over the Direct debits (DD). So, the DDs would have been moved for Mr H.
The block on the account was lifted on the 16 June. But Santander didnt lift the block on the 
switch which is why the switch wasnt able to go through. Once the block was lifted to the 
account the DDs would have continued to be paid. But I understand Mr H wanted to have 
them transferred. Mr H was unable to complete the switch on his account until 17 July 2021. 
In addition, all of Mr Hs direct debits were blocked for three weeks.
I have looked to see if Mr H incurred any charges as a result of the direct debits being 
blocked for three weeks. I have seen a letter for a default payment for 9 June 2021 for £12. I 
cant see that he incurred any other charges and I have seen no other evidence to support 
further loss. 
Mr H has told us how difficult and time consuming it has been for him to switch accounts as 
he had over 20 direct debits. Mr H had manually moved the direct debits over to N before the 
switch took place on 17 July 2021.
I can see that Mr H was charged a default payment of £12 because of the complete block on 
the account. I think that Santander was genuinely concerned for Mr H, but as Ive mentioned 
Santander could have blocked any transfers and any international payments out of the 
account and allowed the DDs to be honoured instead of blocking the account and preventing 
any payments to be made from the account.
I have considered if Mr H suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay in switching his 
DDs. I can see no impact from the account switch delay because he had funds in the 
account and once the account was unblocked, the payments could continue to be made. He 
wasnt charged any penalties for missing a direct debit payment so although Santanders 
error did prevent the switch from taking place on the 5 July, Mr H didnt incur any financial 
penalties as a result of their error.However, I think both Mr and Mrs H have been caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the switch delay. I appreciate Mr H spent some considerable 
time switching his direct debits manually. And although these would have been done 
automatically as part of the switching process on 17 July it was a result of Santanders error 
that the switching wasnt able to take place on the 5 July 2021.
In addition, as Ive mentioned it was extremely distressing to Mr and Mrs H to receive a 
default notice and to have a cheque returned. Mr H has mentioned how he found this 
embarrassing. Because of this I am minded to ask Santander to pay Mrs and Mr H £200 
distress and inconvenience. In deciding on this amount, I am fully aware that money cant 
compensate Mr H for the distress they both suffered during this time. I am also sure it was 
very worrying and frustrating for them.
Because of the reasons above, I am currently minded that Santander should refund £12 to 
them and pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Santander responded to my provisional decision by accepting my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs H commented on my provisional decision. They accepted Santander could have 
just blocked International Payments, Mr H has reiterated that he thinks without the 
involvement of their local MP the delays would have been even longer. He would still have 
liked Santander to give him a reason for their actions  he says they refused to explain. He 
does not consider that they were given good customer service. He doesnt think that £200 is 
not sufficient compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in the light of Mr Hs comments. I want to 
thank Mr h for his further comments.
I appreciate that Mr H and Mrs H have had a difficult time and Im glad they got the support 
they needed from their local MP.
In my provisional decision I have explained that Santander were concerned Mr H was falling 
victim of a recovery room scam. And having listened to the call I am still satisfied that Mr H 
didnt believe that was the case so I cant see that Santander would have been able to say 
anything to convince Mr H, even if they had given him the reasons for the block. 
Mr H thinks that £200 isnt enough compensation. I appreciate that Mr H and Mrs H have 
been inconvenienced as I have mentioned but I have seen nothing more to lead me to 
increase the compensation.
In summary I have considered everything that Mr H has said, and it hasnt changed my 
position.
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case remains the same as set out in my provisional 
decision.Putting things right
To put things right Santander should pay Mr H and Mrs H £200 and £12.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold the complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mrs H and Mr H a total of £212.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman