DRN-3769917
The complaint
 Mr Z has complained that the valuation used by Scottish Widows Limited when he 
encashed his pension plan with them was approximately £10,000 less than the plan value 
that he had previously been given.
What happened
  In mid-July 2021 Mr Z telephoned Scottish Widows to tell them that he wanted to withdraw 
£20,000 from his pension plan. During the phone call Scottish Widows asked Mr Z what the 
value of his pension was. Mr Z said that he had checked the plan value the day before and 
that it was approximately £72,000. Later in the same phone call Scottish Widows gave Mr Z 
an updated value, which was again approximately £72,000. Scottish Widows told Mr Z that 
this value was not guaranteed.
At the end of July 2021 Mr Z telephoned Scottish Widows again to say that he wanted to 
progress his pension withdrawal to the next stage. A telephone appointment was booked for 
Mr Z to do this for mid-August 2021. During the phone call Scottish Widows told Mr Z that 
the value of his policy was approximately £72,000 and that this figure wasnt guaranteed. 
An email was sent to Mr Z by Scottish Widows during the telephone call which included a 
pension summary letter. This letter confirmed the plan value at approximately £72,000, but 
also said that this value wasnt guaranteed. Mr Z confirmed during the phone call that he 
received the email and was able to open it with the password that hed been given.
Scottish Widows were unable to contact Mr Z when they phoned him as arranged in mid-
August 2021. A new appointment letter was sent to Mr Z by secure email. This email showed 
the value of Mr Zs pension at approximately £73,000.
In early September 2021 Mr Z telephoned Scottish Widows again. Mr Z told Scottish Widows 
that he now wanted to cash in his whole pension and not just make a withdrawal of £20,000. 
During the phone call Mr Z was asked to confirm the value of his pension plan and he said 
that it was worth approximately £73,000.
Mr Z said that he hadnt received the last pension summary letter that Scottish Widows had 
sent to him. Scottish Widows told Mr Z that as he hadnt received the letter then they 
wouldnt be able to go through the procedure to cash in his pension on that phone call.
Scottish Widows therefore sent Mr Z another copy of the letter by secure email and asked 
him to telephone them again when he had read through the information set out in the letter. 
Mr Z said that he would do this and would call back the next day.
Mr Z did telephone Scottish the following day. He said again that he wanted to cash in his 
whole pension. Mr Z confirmed that he had received the secure email from Scottish Widows. 
During the phone call Mr Z was told that the value of his pension was approximately 
£73,000. Mr Z was also told that 25% of his pension plan would be paid to him as a tax-free 
amount and the remaining 75% of his pension would taxable.
Scottish Widows explained how the tax calculations worked, and that after tax had been 
deducted a net amount of approximately £50,000 would be paid to Mr Z by Scottish Widows. 
Mr Z confirmed his understanding of this.
Between mid-July to early September 2021 Scottish Widows sent Mr Z four pension 
summary letters by secure email, each of which included a value of Mr Zs pension. These 
values were approximately £72,000. Each letter said that the plan value quoted was not 
guaranteed.
In mid-September 2021 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr Z to confirm the final payment value 
used to encash Mr Zs pension. This showed a plan value of approximately £73,000 was 
used and that a net payment after tax of approximately £50,000 had been sent to Mr Z. 
Mr Z has said that Scottish Widows used an incorrect value when they had encashed his 
pension. Mr Z said that he had received a valuation from Scottish Widows before he 
encashed his pension and that this showed the value of his pension was approximately 
£83,000. Mr Z has not provided a copy of this valuation.
Scottish Widows did not uphold Mr Zs complaint. They said that they had not issued a 
valuation for approximately £83,000 for Mr Zs pension and that the correct value was used 
when Mr Zs pension was encashed. 
Mr Z didnt accept Scottish Widows response and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
An investigator in the Financial Ombudsman Service has reviewed Mr Zs complaint. They 
did not uphold the complaint. Mr Z did not agree with the investigators conclusion and asked 
for his complaint against Scottish Widows to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the telephone calls that Mr Z had with Scottish Widows and during each of 
these Mr Z is told that the value of his plan is in the region of either £72,000 or £73,000. Mr Z 
is also told that the valuations given are not guaranteed.
In his telephone call with Scottish Widows in mid-July 2021, and during the call at the end of 
July 2021, Mr Z is asked if he knows the value of his pension plan. In both telephone calls 
Mr Z replies with a value of approximately £72,000.
Mr Z telephoned Scottish Widows in early September 2021 to give his final instruction to 
encash his pension. He is told during the call that the value of his plan is approximately 
£73,000 and that he will receive a net payment after tax of approximately £50,000. Mr Z 
confirmed his understanding of these figures during the telephone call. 
Scottish Widows sent four pension summary letters to Mr Z by secure email from mid-July to 
early September 2021. In each of these letters the value of Mr Zs pension plan is quoted as being in the region of either £72,000 or £73,000. The letters also say that the value given is 
not guaranteed. Mr Z has provided a screenshot of his inbox which shows that he did 
receive the four emails.
I have also seen the last annual statement sent to Mr Z by Scottish Widows. This was sent 
to Mr Z in early December 2020 and showed a plan value of approximately £66,000. This 
statement also shows the value of Mr Zs plan in early December 2019, when it was worth 
approximately £67,000.
I have not seen any valuation or letter which show Scottish Widows telling Mr Z that the 
value of his pension plan is approximately £83,000. During the telephone calls that Mr Z had 
with Scottish Widows through the period from July 2021 to September 2021, I have not 
heard Scottish Widows tell Mr Z that his pension was worth approximately £83,000. 
The evidence that I have seen, and have listened to, consistently shows Mr Z being told by 
Scottish Widows that the value his pension plan was approximately either £72,000 or 
£73,000. During two of his telephone calls with Scottish Widows, Mr Z states that the value 
of his pension plan is approximately £72,000.
I am therefore satisfied with the valuation used by Scottish Widows and am unable to uphold 
Mr Zs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint against Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman