DRN-2120340
The complaint
Mr H says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took out a £400 instalment loan from Cashfloat in March 2020. The loan was repayable 
in three monthly instalments.
An adjudicator looked at Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H asked 
that an ombudsman consider his complaint  so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive considered the information Mr H provided to Cashfloat at the point of application. Mr H 
said he was in full-time employment, earned £2,000 a month (net) and had no dependants. 
Mr H was also asked to provide information about his outgoings and said he spent nothing 
on food, utilities, rent or travel  his only declared expenditure was £126 towards loan 
repayments.
I think Cashfloat was entitled to rely on much of what Mr H said  especially expenditure on 
things like rent and travel, which are harder to verify in an automated way. I can see 
Cashfloat did also make significant adjustments to Mr Hs declarations, adding over £1,000 
in living costs to take into account that Mr H had declared extremely low expenditure. I think 
that was a reasonable way to take into account Mr Hs unusually low expenditure. Cashfloat 
also carried out a credit check, which seems to have suggested Mr Hs monthly loan 
commitments were closer to £300 than the £126 he declared.
Even after all these adjustments and additional pieces of information, the loan, which had 
repayments of around £195 per month, still looked manifestly affordable to Mr H. In these 
circumstances, I dont find Cashfloat acted unfairly by lending to Mr H and so Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman