DRN-4250454
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund a disputed 
payment amount of £3,400 on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr D says he lost his wallet containing his Virgin Money and other cards. He didnt realise as 
he had a debit card linked to his phone. He had written the PINs for his cards in his wallet as 
he says he is forgetful. His card here had been used without his authority.
Virgin Money said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It has asked Mr D for a police crime 
reference number, and he hadnt provided this. As a result, it said that it couldnt investigate 
his claim as fraud.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money refunded 
together with any interest and charges that have resulted. And that any negative information 
on his credit record should be removed. She said that the terms and conditions of the 
account required Mr D to keep his card and security details safe. But also, that as the 
agreement was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 he wouldnt be responsible for 
any loss arising from unauthorised use of the credit facility. She said that Mr D not providing 
a police crime reference number was a reason not to investigate the claim. Mr D had 
contacted Virgin Money when he realised the card had been lost and reported this to Action 
Fraud. She wasnt persuaded hed consented to someone else having and using his card.
Virgin Money didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. A report to the police 
would show that a crime had been committed. Without this it was opening itself up to risk. 
Having this reference number would allow a full fraud investigation and may assist it in 
accepting a consumers testimony. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.   
It isnt in dispute that this payment was authenticated with Mr Ds card details and the PIN. 
The issue is whether he consented to the payment and authorised it. And if he didnt as Ive 
referred to above he wouldnt be liable for it. The issue of whether he acted with gross 
negligence in not protecting his security information wouldnt apply to a payment resulting in 
a credit card debt.
Its generally up to a consumer whether to report the matter to police and this doesnt have 
any impact on Virgin Moneys obligations under the Payment Services Regulations and 
Consumer Credit Act. Mr D has plausibly said here that he was directed by police to report 
this at the time to Action Fraud and has provided a reference number. It is for Virgin Money 
to show that he did authorise the payment.
Virgin Money has had the opportunity to argue whether the payment was authorised or 
unauthorised and has effectively declined to do so. And this service generally wouldnt be 
keen on it placing barriers like this before carrying out an investigation. I note its regulatory 
concerns, but I dont find its reasoning for declining to refund the payment and rework the 
account to be reasonable. And so, on that basis I will be finding in Mr Ds favour on this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to:
1) Refund the disputed payment amount and rework the account to refund all related 
interest and charges applied.
2) Remove any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies as a result of 
this disputed payment amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman