DRN-3139956
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs S have complained about poor customer service from Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money when they were moving home and transferring (porting) their 
mortgage onto a new property. Mr N and Mrs S say they incurred an early repayment charge 
(ERC) which they think has been unfairly applied. 
Mr N has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of both parties. He would also like 
Clydesdale to compensate him for the time spent on the matter, which he estimates to be 30 
hours, at his hourly rate of £600 per hour.
What happened
Its not disputed that Clydesdale made mistakes in handling this application. Because the 
bank has admitted its errors, I dont need to set out in detail whats happened. There are 
several reasons for this. First, the history of what happened is documented in the 
correspondence between the parties. Secondly, our investigator gave a detailed explanation 
in her correspondence about what had happened. Thirdly, our decisions are published, and I 
must ensure that I dont include in this decision anything that might lead to Mr N or Mrs S 
being identified. 
So for all these reasons, I will give only the briefest summary of what led up to the complaint 
being made.
Briefly, Mr N and Mrs S had a mortgage taken out with Clydesdale in December 2019. 
Theyd borrowed approx. £740,000 on a property valued at £1,200,00 on a 62% loan-to-
value ratio (LTV).  I am told that Mr N and Mrs S increased their borrowing on this new 
mortgage by £300,000 so they could purchase a buy-to-let property. 
The mortgage was on an interest-only basis and the repayment vehicle was to be the sale of 
the property. The mortgage offer confirms that the product taken out is:
an Interest Only loan on a Broker Flexible I/O .+£500,000  Fixed until 30/11/2024 
(Up to 75% LTV). (my emphasis)
If the mortgage was repaid during the fixed rate period, an early repayment charge (ERC) 
would be payable, and in the first year this was 5% of the balance repaid. Overpayments of 
up to 10% of the outstanding balance could be made each year without incurring an ERC. 
However, the mortgage could also be ported onto another property, subject to meeting the 
banks lending, affordability and eligibility criteria at the time of the application to port. If the 
mortgage was successfully ported, the ERC would be refunded. If only part of the mortgage 
was ported, a partial refund of the ERC would be made.
In February 2020 Mr N and Mrs S decided to move and downsize and transfer their 
mortgage onto the new property, which they were buying for £742,000. From this point 
onwards, Mr N and Mrs S (or their broker) were given incorrect information by Clydesdale.
Their broker says they were told, incorrectly, by Clydesdale that Mr N and Mrs S would be 
able to port the interest-only mortgage on a 90% LTV, with 75% on interest-only and the 
remaining 15% on capital repayment. 
Mr N was also told that the 10% annual overpayment allowance would be deducted from the 
outstanding balance at redemption and so would be taken into consideration when 
calculating the ERC. This wasnt correct. 
Mr N says that they proceeded on that understanding, believing that theyd be able to port 
almost £760,000 onto their new property, and, taking into account the 10% overpayment 
allowance, thered be no ERC to pay.
Mr N was also told on the phone on 13 February 2020 that Clydesdale would allow a port of 
a maximum of 80%. But what Clydesdale didnt mention was that its policy was that it would 
only allow interest-only up to 75% LTV and the remaining 5% would have to be on capital 
repayment.
The application was initially declined, as it didnt meet Clydesdales lending criteria in relation 
to the repayment strategy. The bank explained that the minimum amount that must be on 
capital repayment was £251,000. This is because Mr N and Mrs S were paying a deposit of 
£128,500, and the banks policy required there to be £400,000 minimum equity in the 
property at the end of the mortgage term. 
Mr N was very unhappy about this. Clydesdale reviewed the application on the basis of 
£300,000 equity. and was prepared to allow 75% on interest-only and 5% on capital 
repayment.
Mr N and Mrs S went ahead with their new purchase, with a mortgage of £594,000, giving a 
LTV of 80%, with 75% on interest-only and the remaining 5% on capital repayment. An ERC 
of £9,232.29 was paid on redemption of the mortgage. A partial refund of the ERC was due 
to be refunded. 
Mr N complained to Clydesdale. He wanted the ERC waived in full and compensation paid, 
as he was unhappy with the service he and Mrs S been given during the application process. 
Clydesdale acknowledged it hadnt been clear enough about the maximum LTV for interest-
only borrowing during a phone call. Clydesdale also accepted that Mr N had been led to 
believe the ERC would be calculated as if a 10% annual overpayment had been made. 
Unfortunately Clydesdale said in its final response letter that it would refund the ERC, which 
wasnt correct  it would refund only part of this. 
Clydesdale decided to treat the redemption as if a 10% overpayment had been made. This 
resulted in an ERC refund of £5,563.74 being made to Mr N and Mrs S, meaning the total 
ERC paid was £3,668.55. Clydesdale also paid compensation of £200 for trouble and upset.
Mr N and Mrs S didnt accept this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint and, having done so, was satisfied the ERC had been 
correctly applied. But she thought Clydesdale should pay an additional £150 for the incorrect 
information Mr N had been given about the 80% LTV lending during a phone call. The 
investigator found no evidence to show Clydesdale had ever said a 90% LTV was available.
Clydesdale thought the investigators findings were fair, but Mr N and Mrs S did not. Mr N 
reiterated that hed been told by his broker that Clydesdale had said they could port up to 
90% LTV and so would not have incurred an ERC. Mr N was unhappy at the poor communication and service from Clydesdale. Whilst he acknowledges the ERC was 
payable, Mr N thinks that Clydesdale should reimburse the full amount, because the final 
response letter said it would be. Mr N says that this forms the basis of the complaint.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the service provided by Clydesdale fell below the standard Mr N and Mrs S 
should have received. Im glad to note the bank has acknowledged this. What I have to 
decide is what should be done to put this right.
Where a mistake has been made, what we try to do is put the consumer back in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. In this case, the mistakes made by the 
bank are that Mr N and Mrs S were given incorrect information. This led them to believe 
initially that they could port a larger LTV onto their new property than was allowed. Secondly, 
due to an error in the final response letter, despite their initial understanding that theyd have 
to pay a partial ERC, Mr N and Mrs S say they were given the expectation that the whole of 
the ERC would be refunded.
So what I have to do is put them back in the position theyd have been in if those mistakes 
hadnt been made  i.e. if Mr N been told during the call on 13 February 2020 that they could 
only borrow 75% on interest-only with a maximum 80% LTV, and if theyd been told theyd 
only get a partial refund of the ERC in the final response letter of 22 May 2020.
Ive looked at everything thats happened and read all the contemporaneous documentation 
thats available. I asked the investigator to obtain the brokers file. I wanted this because 
there is no evidence in Clydesdales records that the bank ever told the broker that Mr N and 
Mrs S would be able to port 90% of their mortgage onto the new property. 
Notwithstanding the regulatory obligation to do so, the broker has confirmed that it has kept 
no records of this mortgage. Instead the broker has provided us with a single email it claims 
to have sent to Clydesdale in which the broker says it was told by Clydesdale in December 
2019 (so at the time of the original application to Clydesdale) that a 90% LTV port would be 
possible. This email does not appear in Clydesdales email chain with the broker. In the 
circumstances, its evidential value is limited and the weight I can attach to it is reduced. 
Given this, the evidence doesnt persuade me that Clydesdale ever told the broker that a 
90% LTV port with a 75%/15% interest-only/capital repayment split would be possible. I 
appreciate Mr N and Mrs S might have been told by their broker that they could borrow at a 
90% LTV, but this doesnt appear to have been as a result of anything Clydesdale told the 
broker. I think, on balance, its unlikely Clydesdale would have said that when it was not 
within its lending criteria or policy.
Clydesdales policy for interest-only mortgages is for a maximum of 75% LTV on interest-
only, and a maximum 80% LTV overall. Im satisfied the bank isnt under any obligation to 
waive or vary its lending criteria for applications that do not meet those criteria. 
Clydesdale has acknowledged it didnt make things clear during a phone call with Mr N on 
13 February 2020. The impact of Clydesdales error is that, for a short period of time, about 
two weeks, Mr N and Mrs S thought theyd be able to borrow 80% LTV on interest-only, 
rather than a 75%/5% split. If the mistake hadnt been made, Mr N would have been told the correct position on 13 
February 2020, rather than finding out on 26 February 2020. Im satisfied this led to a loss of 
expectation on the part of Mr N and Mrs S about how much theyd be able to borrow and on 
what basis.
Im also satisfied Clydesdale incorrectly told Mr N and Mrs S that the 10% overpayment 
allowance would be taken into consideration before calculating the ERC. Im glad to see that 
Clydesdale has agreed to honour this and I dont require the bank to do anything further in 
this regard.
Clydesdales final response letter was clumsily worded, suggesting that the whole ERC 
would be refunded. This was quickly corrected by the bank, which referred Mr N and Mrs S 
to the mortgage offer, which confirmed a partial refund of the ERC would be made where 
only a proportion of the mortgage was being ported.
Again, Mr N and Mrs S were given the expectation for a couple of weeks that they would get 
the full ERC back. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to order Clydesdale to 
reimburse the full ERC, rather than the partial amount already repaid. Thats because the 
error wasnt that the ERC was charged by mistake. The error was that Clydesdale suggested 
it would refund the ERC, rather than part of it. To put this error right, and for its other service 
errors, Clydesdale paid £200 compensation.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that Clydesdales payment of £200 compensation isnt sufficient 
for the trouble and upset caused by its errors. Ive noted what Mr N has said about wanting 
payment at his hourly rate of £600 for 30 hours spent on the matter  so £18,000 in total. But 
we dont award compensation based on a consumers hourly employment rate, and this is 
explained on our website. Instead, I have to consider what has happened in the round.
Having done so, Im satisfied further compensation of £150 should be paid by Clydesdale for 
trouble and inconvenience. I think that this, in addition to the £200 already paid and the 
concession for the 10% overpayment when calculating the ERC, is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the mistakes made by the bank.
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In addition to the £200 compensation 
already paid, I direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr N and Mrs S an 
additional £150 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman