DRN-3187351
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed over 100,000 miles so I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be fault free, as they would for a new vehicle. I think a reasonable 
person would expect a car of that age and mileage to be showing some signs of wear and 
tear but I dont think theyd expect to experience the problems Miss C has had with, for 
instance, a broken rear differential or a need to replace an axle.
Im persuaded by the independent experts report that there are faults with this car and that 
they were most likely present when the car was supplied to Miss C; the point at which 
Moneybarn were responsible for its quality. The inspector noted a badly worn rear differential 
and the need to replace the rear axle. He also identified that the rear doors wouldnt lock, 
and the front brake discs were badly lipped and needed replacement. It was his view that 
since the car had only been in Miss Cs possession for a short time the faults would have 
been present or developing at the point of supply.
So, I think this car was of unsatisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation gives a consumer 30 days to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory 
quality without giving the business an opportunity to repair the faults.
Miss C says she asked to reject the car within 30 days. Im not sure that was the case. The 
business notes suggest Miss C took receipt of the car on 16 November 2020 and the 30-day 
clock runs from the day after delivery. 30 days would therefore expire on 16 December 2020, 
but I cant see that Miss C asked to reject the car until 17 December, a day later.
However, I can see that whilst Miss C seemed initially prepared to accept repairs she 
decided to reject the car when it emerged that the dealership wouldnt be repairing all the 
issues shed identified and would only be looking at the differential. So, I think its fair to 
suggest the 30-day period should be considered to have paused when a repair was offered 
and restarted again when the limited and inadequate scope of that repair was revealed. Im 
persuaded that it would therefore have been fair to allow Miss C to reject the car when she 
asked to do so on 17 December 2020. 
And, even if Im wrong about the 30-day short term right to reject the car not having expired I 
still think the fairest resolution here would be to allow Miss C to reject the car and not repair 
it. I say that because Miss C had barely driven the car when she made the request and the 
faults with the vehicle were severe and extensive. I dont think a reasonable person would 
think a repair was a reasonable resolution as I think there would be a reasonable 
expectation that the faults identified may only be the tip of the iceberg.
Moneybarn refused to allow Miss C to reject the car because they said shed completed 
unauthorised repairs on it. Miss C had the front tyres and brake pads replaced only three 
weeks after delivery. They are consumable items and Miss C was always responsible for 
replacing them as they wouldnt have been covered by any warranty. It was Miss Cs choice 
where she had that work completed and Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to 
believe those repairs could have impacted on the differential failure or the problems Miss C 
had locking the car doors.
I dont therefore think Moneybarn were reasonable when they refused to allow Miss C to 
reject the car.
Putting things right
Moneybarn will need to end the finance agreement and they should arrange to take the car 
back.
Miss C had to replace the front tyres as they werent the same as the rear tyres and she 
says this is necessary on a four-wheel drive car. I think its reasonable to say that it is 
standard advice to do that on a four-wheel drive vehicle and in those circumstances I think 
Moneybarn should refund the expense Miss C incurred if she can let them have a copy of 
the receipt.
Miss C also had the front brake pads replaced after only three weeks. I understand that 
those items are wear and tear components, but I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect to replace them only a few weeks and a few hundred miles later. I think its likely that 
at the point of supply these components had worn excessively and I think it would therefore 
be fair for Moneybarn to refund the cost of replacement if Miss C can provide the receipt.Miss C also says she incurred costs to have the faults on the car diagnosed. They are costs 
she wouldnt have incurred if the car was of satisfactory quality and its only fair therefore to 
tell Moneybarn to refund them with interest.
Miss C hasnt been able to drive the car since it broke down in December 2020. She had 
very little use of it before then and what use she did have was hampered by faults with the 
tyres, brakes, door locking, differential noise and key fob. Its not fair for her to have to pay 
monthly instalments for a car she couldnt drive and given the constant problems I dont think 
it would be fair to ask her to pay any monthly instalments towards her agreement. If Miss C 
has made any payments they should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest as 
Miss C will have been deprived of that money.
Miss C has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to have the faults diagnosed 
and to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
In those circumstances I would agree that Moneybarn should pay her £100 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss C.
Refund the costs incurred by Miss C to replace the front tyres and brakes and to 
have the faults diagnosed, on provision of receipts. Add 8% simple interest to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid by Miss C in respect of the lack of use she has 
had from the car. Add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Pay Miss C £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Cs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman