DRN-3142261
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement of his travel insurance claim by U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again. Ill 
instead focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has dealt with Mr Hs claim under the Delay Benefit section of the policy, but Mr H thinks 
it shouldve been dealt with under the Abandoned Departure section.
The policy says the following about Delay Benefit:
We will pay £10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional £10 every 
following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at your point of departure or 
connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed. You must have already 
checked in.
The policy says the following about Abandoned Departure:
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you 
choose to abandon your trip on your outward journey at your point of departure because 
your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is:
1. Delayed by more than 12 hours (6 hours for a trip of four nights or less) beyond the 
departure time shown on your travel ticket on your outward journey...
Mr H didnt abandon his trip, nor had he arrived at his point of departure, and so Im satisfied 
the Abandoned Departure wording wouldnt apply here. Instead, he chose to go on his trip, 
despite knowing in advance that thered be a delay of nearly 24 hours and his trip would be 
shorter as a result. 
Although Mr Hs trip was delayed, he was made aware of that delay in advance and so 
hadnt arrived at his point of departure. It therefore seems to me that UKI werent required to 
pay benefit under the Delay Benefit section of cover, though it chose to do so anyway. The 
settlement it paid was in line with this.
Mr H has referred to information on this services website that sets out how we might 
consider similar cases. I should explain that each case is decided on its own merits.
Overall, Im satisfied UKI dealt with the claim fairly.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman