DRN-4058897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about inefficient and unfair treatment by The Mortgage Works (UK) 
Plc when they applied to re-mortgage their buy to let property. They ask that TMW provides 
the mortgage at the original rate or pays compensation for financial loss (of about £26,000) 
and distress. Mr G has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G received a buy to let mortgage offer from TMW in late February 2022. In May 
2022 TMW said it couldnt proceed to completion as the tenancy agreement in place didnt 
meet its criteria.
Mr G says he went to considerable trouble and expense trying to meet TMWs criteria, 
including giving notice to his tenants and entering into a tenancy agreement with a 
prospective new tenant. Mr G was unable to meet TMWs requirements before the mortgage 
offer expired in August 2022. Mr G says he had to take out an expensive lifetime mortgage 
on his own home. He incurred costs and his tenants and prospective tenant were caused 
distress and inconvenience.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr G didnt agree. He said it was unfair that he, his broker and solicitor didnt have access to 
TMWs internal policies. He said this wasnt transparent, created uncertainty and gave 
lenders free rein to claim internal policy when they wanted to block a transaction. Mr G said 
it was unfair that I hadnt recommended TMW pay compensation for his stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW issued a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs G in February 2022. The offer was due to 
expire in August 2022.
In May 2022 TMW said the tenancy agreement didnt meet its criteria. This was because Mr 
and Mrs G werent named in the agreement, which theyd inherited from the previous owner 
when they bought the property. Mr G says his tenants refused to sign a new agreement.
Mr G served notice of possession on his tenants, requiring them to vacate the premises. He 
agreed to pay them compensation to vacate the premises by early August 2022 to avoid any 
delay. He paid a solicitor to draft a deed of surrender, which he provided to TMW.
TMW said this wasnt sufficient. It told Mr G they needed to have a tenant in place with an 
acceptable tenancy agreement and proof that the tenant was paying rent.
Mr G found a tenant prepared to sign an AST and pay a months rent in advance of moving 
in. He provided a bank statement showing the new tenant paid a deposit and a months rent 
in mid-July 2022. He didnt provide this to TMW at that time as, by that point, hed concluded 
it wasnt possible to meet its requirements before the mortgage offer expired. Mr G said 
TMW required the new tenant to be residing at the property and he didnt think this would be 
arranged in time. Mr G decided to leave the existing tenants in place. He says they were 
disappointed not to receive the compensation offered for moving out. The new tenant was 
disappointed not to be able to take up the tenancy and threatened legal action.
I dont think TMW made an error or treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly. Ive explained why below.
Like all lenders, TMW is entitled to have lending criteria. Lending criteria differ between 
lenders, depending on their business focus and risk appetites. Lending criteria can be 
commercially sensitive, so I wouldnt expect TMW to share its criteria with customers or their 
advisers. TMW provided relevant parts of its lending criteria to us. 
Im satisfied that TMW applied its criteria correctly here. In particular, its criteria require that 
Mr and Mrs G are named on the tenancy agreement. Im also satisfied that its process 
doesnt require it to make checks on the tenancy agreement before making a mortgage offer.
I think the information TMW gave Mr and Mrs G in May 2022 (that the tenancy agreement 
didnt meet its lending criteria) was correct.
Mr and Mrs G had to make a decision about how to proceed. Interest rates were increasing 
at that time. There might have been additional costs in applying elsewhere, and a new 
application would leave a record on their credit files. While Mr G says he was forced into 
giving notice to his tenants by TMW, I dont think thats reasonable. Mr G made what was, in 
effect, a business decision  that he would take the costs and risks involved in changing 
tenants to try to secure the lower interest rate offered by TMW.
Mr G says TMW kept changing its requirements and applied its policies unfairly. He says, in 
effect, it was unfair for TMW to impose requirements related to his tenancy arrangements 
when it offers buy to let mortgages when there are no tenants in the property. 
Properties can be vacant when purchased, and if that had been the case here TMW would 
have applied a different part of its lending criteria. It wouldnt, for instance, have asked for 
proof that the tenant was paying rent. But that wasnt the case. When Mr and Mrs G applied 
to TMW they werent buying a vacant property with the intention of letting it out. Theyd 
bought the property the previous year and they had tenants in the property.
I dont think in these circumstances TMW had fairly to apply lending criteria to the application 
as if Mr and Mrs G were buying a vacant property. I think it was entitled to apply criteria for a 
re-mortgage of a buy to let property already owned by the applicants. TMW expects 
applicants in these circumstances to be able to provide evidence that the tenant occupying 
the property is doing so under a suitable tenancy agreement and paying the agreed rent.
Mr G had served notice of possession, and says the tenants agreed to leave on the basis he 
paid compensation. But they hadnt yet done so. While Mr G had a new tenant lined up, he 
couldnt move in until the tenants moved out. Mr G provided an email from his solicitor that 
described some of the problems they might encounter if the tenants didnt move out of the 
property. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for TMW to say that this didnt meet its 
lending criteria.
Mr G says TMW changed its policy during the process. I dont think thats right. TMW has 
detailed lending criteria. As I said, it doesnt have to share this with customers. When Mr G 
made changes to his tenancy arrangements, TMW looked at whether the new arrangements 
met its criteria.Mr G says having been unable to secure the TMW mortgage, his age meant he had limited 
options. He took out a lifetime mortgage on his home which is expensive compared to the 
TMW mortgage.
Mr and Mrs G applied for a buy to let mortgage on a property they let out. Letting property is 
a business. I appreciate Mr Gs frustration, and Ive no reason to doubt that the tenancy 
agreement is, as he says, legal and meets AST requirements. It might suit Mr G and his 
tenants to keep that agreement in place. But it didnt meet TMWs lending criteria. I dont 
think I can fairly find that TMW should have made exceptions to its lending policy to 
accommodate Mr and Mrs Gs particular circumstances. It follows that I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require TMW to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs G for any costs, 
inconvenience or upset resulting from it not doing so.
Our investigator recommended that TMW pay £200 compensation, for the inconvenience 
caused when it asked Mr G to provide proof that the new tenant was paying rent. Our 
investigator said TMW hadnt shown this was required by its lending policies. TMW provided 
the relevant part of its lending policy to us after that. As I said, I think TMW applied its 
lending policies correctly. As I dont think TMW made an error, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require it to pay compensation for any inconvenience caused to Mr G. 
Mr G says by not making lending criteria available lenders have free rein to impede 
transactions by making claims about internal policies. We provide an informal dispute 
resolution service. While lenders dont have to provide their criteria to customers and 
advisers, we can require lenders to provide their lending criteria to us (in confidence) to help 
us reach a fair outcome to a complaint. TMW provided the relevant parts of its lending 
criteria to us here. 
Mr G asked that this matter is urgently reviewed by the FCA. Thats not part of our process. 
Mr G can contact the FCA with his concerns if he wants to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman