DRN-3937615
The complaint
Mr B has complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) 
has unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr B bought an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Shepherds Friendly. He 
made a claim in 2020 for absence which began in August 2019. The policy had a 1-week 
waiting period.
Shepherds Friendly declined the claim on the basis that Mr Bs employment was terminated 
in August/September 2019 and there was no evidence of his incapacity before this. 
Unhappy, Mr B complained and referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt think Shepherds Friendly had unfairly declined the claim 
based on the medical evidence provided. 
Mr B disagreed and in summary, he has made the following comments:
Mr Bs GP and consultants have evidenced that he was suffering from a physical 
illness and was incapacitated prior to his termination. He says there is clear medical 
evidence with primary and secondary care since June 2019. On a balance of 
probabilities, his incapacity began in June 2019.
As the original claim was declined, Mr B took a career break on the policy which 
Shepherds Friendly refused to stop when he began a phased return to work in 
January 2021. He became absent after four months and was incapacitated again in 
April 2021. Had the original claim not been refused, he wouldnt have suspended the 
policy and the second period of incapacity would also be covered. He has been 
assessed by the DWP as Limited Capability for Work Related Activity.
Shepherds Friendly should have made more effort to check his understanding of the 
career break and the implications of it. It didnt mention that he would need six 
months of continuous employment before he could claim again. 
The career break was taken under financial pressure and in the absence of financial 
advice without being fully understood. This was during the time his financial advisers 
were being made redundant. Shepherds Friendly told Mr B the career break wouldnt 
affect his entitlement to benefits and the policy would resume as normal. The career 
break should have been waived or cancelled.
The medical side is complex and has taken years to diagnose and understand. Mr B 
is currently under the care of a number of consultants and specialists. His incapacity 
isnt widely understood and it is unclear whether he will ever be able to return to his 
own occupation.
He has seen a world leading autonomic specialist consultant who told Mr B his nerve 
control is abnormal and explained the gastrointestinal dysmotility he experienced in 
June-August 2019. He is prepared to provide a letter should it be required. He is 
referring Mr B to 10 specialists for multiple tests and investigations over the next 12 
months. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms make up the contract of insurance between Mr B and Shepherds Friendly. 
Ill set out the terms most relevant to my decision.
The policy terms 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
. if you are not fit and able to work in your Own Occupation as a result of physical 
or mental illness or injury
Fit and able is defined as follows:
Whether you are fit and able to work in your Own Occupation is a question of fact. 
We will determine this question by reference to the evidence you provide and in 
consultation with any medical and employment advisers who we may choose to 
instruct.
The policy confirms the effect of the waiting period as follows:
At the start of your plan, you can choose the period you are prepared to wait 
following the first day of your Incapacity before you become eligible to receive 
Benefits. This is known as the Waiting Period...You will not be eligible to receive any 
Benefits at all if your Incapacity does not last longer than your Waiting Period.
The policy pays out if there is a loss of income:
You must be engaged in paid employment or earning through self-employment 
when the Incapacity starts and you must suffer a complete or partial loss of income 
as a direct consequence of not being fit and able to work in your Own Occupation. If 
you are not in paid employment or earning through self-employment when Incapacity 
starts, you may instead qualify for House Persons Benefit, if you meet the 
requirements for that benefit.
The policy sets out what to do when making a claim:
You must notify us of your Incapacity by telephone, email or post as soon as 
possible and you must then send us a claim form that you personally have completed 
and signed as soon thereafter as you reasonably can.The policy sets out information about career breaks:
You may apply to suspend cover under your plan and your premium payments for a 
minimum continuous period of 3 months and up to a maximum continuous period of 
24 months
If we agree to your application for a Career Break: We will notify you of the start and 
end date of the Career Break. You can cancel a Career Break at any time before the 
Career Break starts. Once your Career Break has started, you may only cancel the 
Career Break if we agree to such cancellation
If you cancel a Career Break, you will not be entitled to Benefits until you have 
returned to work in your Own Occupation for a continuous period of at least 6 
months. Following the end of a career break, you will not be able to claim under the 
plan and you will not be entitled to any Benefits, until you have returned to work in 
your Own Occupation for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
In summary, in order to be eligible for payment of full benefit under the policy terms, Mr B 
needs to be employed and meet the definition of incapacity for more than a week. This 
means he has to demonstrate, through medical evidence, that he is unable to work due to 
illness or injury. He then needs to tell Shepherds Friendly about his incapacity as soon as 
possible. The onus is on Mr B to prove his claim. 
I will now set out the key timeline of events leading to the complaint. 
Key events 
27 August 2019  Mr Bs employment was terminated due to underperformance and 
unsuitability to the role. The letter noted Mr B hadnt met some targets between May 
and August 2019. He was entitled to four weeks notice.
June 2020  Mr B emailed the Shepherds Friendly to ask about his options under the 
plan. He said he had medical consultations in August 2019, became unemployed in 
September 2019, had a diagnostic endoscopy in October 2019 with further diagnostic 
testing throughout November 2019 to March 2020. He said his GP had declared him 
unfit to work with a review at the end of August 2020. He asked if he would be 
eligible for a claim under the policy for either full benefit or house persons benefit. He 
also asked if a career break or cancellation would be his best option if he wasnt 
eligible for a claim. 
Early July 2020  Shepherds Friendly replied to Mr B and confirmed the policy didnt 
cover loss of employment and it expected any absence to be notified as soon as 
possible.
Mr B says he didnt notify Shepherds Friendly about his claim until 2020 due to ill 
health and also as this was when he made a claim for benefits  he had obtained a 
backdated sick note and letter from his GP to support his incapacity. 
August 2020  Shepherds Friendly emailed Mr B and referred him to his financial 
adviser if he had questions about the policy. It also referred to the terms and 
conditions in relation to how incapacity would be assessed.
November 2020  Shepherds Friendly reviewed Mr Bs medical history and said it 
needed a full medical report including medical history for five years prior to the 
application. It later declined the claim as it wasnt satisfied that Mr B was incapacitated before his employment was terminated. 
The key medical evidence 
June 2019  Mr Bs GP notes show he had a known history of reflux, a previous 
discussion about the need for surgery, and his ongoing symptoms were managed 
well due to lifestyle changes. He hadnt had gastro input for the last four years, and 
no red flags  he was well in self. A gastroenterological referral was made for 
surveillance with a repeat endoscopy to assess disease progression and to consider 
the need for surgery. 
November 2019  this is the next entry on the GP notes after June with the problem 
labelled as gastritis. Mr B had a gastroscopy, mild gastritis and a follow up with the 
specialist on 22 November. 
29 November 2019  letter from gastroenterology specialist which noted Mr Bs 
bloating started on 19 September, and he had intermittent diarrhoea once a month.
December 2019  letter from specialist and diet discussed. 
February 2020  review of gastroesophageal reflux disease  not fit for work note 
issued for the period February 2020 to April 2020.
March 2023  letter of support from GP which says Mr Bs chronic medical conditions 
impacted his duties at work and incapacitated him between June and August 2019. 
Mr B says he became incapacitated in the summer of 2019 whilst he was still employed, and 
this is when his symptoms became more problematic. He feels his job was terminated due to 
his inability to fulfil his duties due to illness. 
Ive reviewed all of the available medical evidence in detail and Im not satisfied that Mr B 
was incapacitated between June and August 2019. There are limited GP entries during this 
time and there is reference to him being well in himself with no red flags. Mr B didnt have 
any advice from his GP to refrain from work. And I have seen no evidence that Mr B was off 
from work for longer than a week due to an illness which prevented him from doing his job. 
The waiting period of one week means Mr B has to be incapacitated for a week before he 
becomes eligible for benefit. 
Mr B also says his employment was terminated as a result of his illness and inability to carry 
out his duties. However, the termination letter of August 2019 says Mr B wasnt performing 
since May 2019, before the date he says he had a deterioration in his health. There is also 
no mention of ill-health related absence which had caused concern to his employer. 
Having considered all of the above, Im not persuaded that Mr B was too unwell to work 
before his employment was terminated. So I dont think he met the definition of incapacity 
between June and August 2019 to be eligible for benefit. 
In relation to the further medical evidence provided by Mr B, I have placed less weight on the 
backdated fit notes and the retrospective report provided by the GP which is based on Mr 
Bs self-reporting. The contemporaneous GP note written in June 2019 is more persuasive 
as it was completed at the time so I consider that to be a more reliable and accurate record. 
Additionally, Mr B says he has been assessed as being unfit to work by the DWP. But the 
DWPs criteria is different to that of his income protection policy. In any event, the DWP 
assessment wasnt available in June 2019 when Mr B says he became incapacitated. So I dont find this evidence persuasive either. 
As I dont think there is sufficient medical evidence of incapacity from the date of claim, I 
dont think Shepherds Friendly unfairly declined Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B has also raised a separate complaint with Shepherds Friendly regarding a second 
absence in 2021 with a different employer. This decision only relates to the initial claim from 
2019 and not the subsequent absence. If Mr B is unhappy with Shepherds Friendlys 
response to his second complaint, he can refer it to this office for consideration. 
Career break
Mr B says Shepherds Friendly failed to give him proper advice in relation to the career break 
he requested.
Ive seen that Mr B enquired about this in June 2020. He asked if applying for a 
career break would be the best option under the policy if he wasnt eligible to claim. 
Shepherds Friendly replied to confirm Mr B could ask for the policy to be suspended 
for a continuous period of three months, up to a maximum of 24 months. During this 
time, no claims could be made. It referred Mr B to his financial adviser who sold the 
policy to discuss his financial circumstances in greater detail.
Mr B emailed Shepherds Friendly to say he was deciding between a career break or 
policy cancellation. He asked if he would be covered for any of his conditions in a 
years time if he returned to employment and if his GP signed him off from work. 
Shepherds Friendly replied to say following a career break, his policy would resume 
as normal and he would be able to submit claims for loss of earnings caused by 
incapacity. 
Mr B asked further questions and Shepherds Friendly referred him to the terms and 
conditions and the financial adviser who had sold the policy.
In August 2020, Shepherds Friendly confirmed Mr Bs career break request had been 
received for 12 months and all premiums and cover would be suspended. It referred 
him to the terms and conditions for full details. 
In January 2021, Mr B emailed Shepherds Friendly and said he understood that his 
career break would be cancelled if his complaint was upheld. He also said he was 
starting a part time contract so he would be back in employment. He said he 
presumed the career break would be cancelled and he could back-pay his premiums. 
Shepherds Friendly replied to say the career break couldnt be backdated and 
cancellation could only be considered from the current date. It asked Mr B to 
complete a declaration of health form and new employment details. Once Mr B 
replied, it would consider his cancellation request. 
Mr B was unhappy and said he wasnt being treated fairly and his career break end 
date should be backdated. Shepherds Friendly said this had been passed to the 
complaints department.
In its final response letter, Shepherds Friendly said it could consider the early 
cancellation of the career break. But it couldnt reverse the career break entirely as 
Mr B had taken seven months of the career break already. As this would affect 
entitlement to benefit when the career break ended, it was unable to reverse it. I havent seen any evidence that Mr B went back to Shepherds Friendly on this point 
again.
Mr B says Shepherds Friendly didnt cancel the break when he requested. As noted in the 
policy terms outlined above, Shepherds Friendly doesnt have to cancel a break, but will 
consider any requests to do so. Im satisfied Shepherds Friendly considered Mr Bs request 
to backdate his cancellation and confirmed why this wasnt possible. 
If Mr B is unhappy that Shepherds Friendly failed to cancel the career break altogether, that 
is a separate complaint he hasnt yet raised. The complaint which was raised and 
investigated was that Mr B wanted Shepherds Friendly to backdate his cancellation request. 
Mr B would need to go back to Shepherds Friendly to complain that it didnt cancel the 
career break at all, if that is the case. This hasnt caused any loss to Mr B because if 
Shepherds Friendly did cancel the career break when Mr B asked it to, hed have to pay 
backdated premiums for a policy he couldnt use. Its up to Mr B whether he wishes to 
pursue this point. 
Mr B also says Shepherds Friendly failed to give him proper advice at the time of taking the 
career break. I am satisfied that when Mr B first raised the question about the career break, 
Shepherds Friendly correctly referred him to the financial adviser who had sold the policy to 
him. It also referred him to the policy terms and conditions before the career break was 
actioned. 
Mr B says he wasnt aware that he wouldnt be able to claim on the policy for six months 
after the end of the career break. But the policy terms are clear that claims would only be 
paid after six months. So even though I accept that Shepherds Friendly could have clarified 
this point further, Im satisfied that it properly referred Mr B to his adviser and the policy 
terms for full details of the terms. 
Furthermore, Mr B wanted to save money on his premiums whilst he was unemployed so Im 
not satisfied that he would have done anything differently had he been told about the six 
month wait. I dont think Shepherds Friendlys actions were unreasonable overall. It actioned 
his request and also advised him to seek advice.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I am sorry to hear of his ill health 
which has deteriorated. He has told us he has been recently referred for multiple tests and 
investigations. I cant consider any new medical evidence which Shepherds Friendly hasnt 
already seen. I have to base my decision on the evidence available to Shepherds Friendly at 
the time the claim was made to decide whether it acted fairly in declining the claim when it 
did.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman