DRN-3983066
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call D, has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limiteds (RSA) settlement offer in relation to a claim made under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr J, one of the directors of D, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr J is also 
represented in this complaint. However, for ease, I will refer to Mr J or D throughout. 
What happened
D contacted RSA to make a claim for business interruption losses as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic.  
RSA agreed to meet the claim. It determined that the claim was worth just under £93,000 for 
the maximum three months indemnity period from March 2020. 
D is very unhappy about this. It disputes that the claim is limited to a three month indemnity 
period. D says the policy provides £1.8million cover over 36 months and while there is a 
three month indemnity limit for some parts of the business interruption section of the policy, 
this limit does not apply to claims relating to notifiable diseases. D says RSA has taken legal 
advice on the issue which demonstrates that it is not comfortable with its own interpretation 
of the policy.  
RSA settled the claim on an interim basis in mid to late 2021, while the dispute about the 
indemnity period continued. RSA did say it was seeking legal advice on its interpretation of 
the relevant policy term, as this potentially affected a number of customers; and this 
confirmed that it had settled the claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied the policy provided cover for business interruption as a result of 
notifiable diseases for a maximum three month period. He did not therefore think RSA had 
acted unfairly in the settlement of the claim. 
D did not accept the Investigators assessment. D says the policy is ambiguous regarding 
the indemnity period that will apply to this claim, so the policy should be interpreted in the 
customers favour. This is a basic insurance contract principle and this service has a 
responsibility to uphold that principle.
 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
In the meantime, D asked for confirmation whether it could make further claims for business 
interruption from the end of the three month period RSA said applies. RSA confirmed that it 
would consider a further claim D wanted to make for the period from June to September 
2020 (subject to the policy terms) but the policy renewed in July 2020 and, even if D 
renewed with it, it is likely the policy terms were changed to exclude Covid-19 related claims 
at that date; so it is unlikely that any further period of business interruption relating to the 
pandemic would be considered.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The section of the policy which has provided cover for Ds claim says as follows: 
vii. Infectious Diseases
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the Business 
during the Indemnity Period following: 
a) any:
i. occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the premises
ii. occurrence of a Notifiable Disease within a radius of 25 miles of the 
Premises
b) the discovery of vermin
c) any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements
d) any occurrence of murder or suicide at the Premises
Additional Definition in respect of Notifiable Diseases
2. For the purposes of this clause:
Indemnity Period shall mean the Period during which the results of the Business shall 
be affected in consequence of the occurrence discovery or accident beginning:
i. In the case of a) and d) above with the date of the occurrence or discovery; or
ii. In the case of b) and c) above the date from which the restrictions on the 
Premises applied; and ending not later that the Maximum Indemnity Period 
thereafter shown below
4. We shall only be liable for the loss arising at those Premises which are directly 
affected by the occurrence discovery or accident Maximum Indemnity Period shall 
mean 3 months.
D says paragraph 2. ii. set out above is a standalone paragraph referring to sections vii b) 
and c) only; and means that the three month indemnity limit only applies to b) and c) of the 
infectious diseases section of cover. D says therefore that the maximum indemnity period of 
36 months (as set out in the schedule) applies to its claim under section vii. a). 
D says that if it was RSAs intention to apply the three month maximum indemnity period to 
sections vii a) and d) it could easily have achieved this by including the same phrase (and 
ending not later that the Maximum Indemnity Period thereafter shown below) under sub 
clause 2. i. This would have removed any possible doubt about the indemnity period.
I do not agree that this is a reasonable interpretation of the wording. 
Sections 2. i. and ii. above consist of one sentence. The sentence is comprised of three 
clauses, punctuated by semi-colons but it is one sentence. If the third clause of the sentence 
(which refers to the end of the period of indemnity) was not meant to apply to part 2. i. as well as 2. ii, then it seems to me there would have to be a full stop at the end of part 2. i. 
And, as it is one sentence, I do not agree 2. ii. stands alone.  
I also note that paragraph 4 above refers to the three month maximum indemnity period 
applying to losses at premises affected by the occurrence discovery or accident. The 
inclusion of the word occurrence here supports that section 4 also applies to the cover 
under sections vii. a) and d) (occurrence of notifiable disease and occurrence of murder) as 
they are the only two parts of the notifiable diseases cover that require an occurrence. If 
section 4 only applied to sections b) and c) it would only need to refer to discovery or 
accident. 
D also says that, even if its interpretation to the term is wrong, the policy is ambiguous on 
this point and the contra proferentum rule should apply, meaning that the disputed wording 
should be construed in Ds favour. 
I do not consider the term to be ambiguous such that it should be disregarded and the 36 
month maximum indemnity limit, that applies to other business interruption claims, should 
apply. 
I also do not consider that the fact RSA sought legal opinion on this clause does not mean it 
should not be entitled to rely on it. The interpretation of business interruption policies and 
how they related to Covid-19 related claims has been the subject of much legal debate and 
so I think it was reasonable that RSA sought legal advice about its approach to this issue, 
which could affect D and other customers.
I am pleased that RSA has confirmed D can make a second claim. That does not form part 
of this complaint but D can refer to us again if there is any issue with that claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman