DRN-2406644
The complaint
Mr W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in October 1997. The policy was 
added to Mr Ws credit card account when he applied for the card by post. The policy 
covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr W didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
Barclaycard focussed its investigation on whether the cancellation terms of the PPI had 
been explained to Mr W. And that likely steered the adjudicators view too.
His complaint is that the PPI was added without his knowledge.
He could have asked family for help if he couldnt meet his card repayments; he had 
savings; and he was entitled to death in service benefit from his employer.
The tick box must have been populated after he returned his application.
Hes concerned that he may still be paying for the policy  if hed known he had it, he 
would have cancelled it. And he would have made a claim when he was made 
redundant.
He always refused PPI if he was offered it and he has had other PPI mis-sale complaints 
upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr W's complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr W says Barclaycard and our adjudicator focussed their investigations on whether the 
cancellation terms had been explained. Whilst this was a complaint point mentioned by his 
representative, I dont find that either investigation focussed on this point but considered 
more generally whether the PPI had been mis-sold.
Mr W is worried that hes still paying for the policy and I think there may have been some 
misunderstanding here. To clarify, Barclaycard told us the credit card account is still open, 
but the PPI policy was cancelled in 2001.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr W's complaint for the following reasons:
Mr W says he didnt know he had PPI and that it was added without his knowledge. I accept 
thats possible. But the application took place more than 20 years ago, so I wouldnt expect 
him to be able to recall now exactly what happened all those years ago. Ive looked at the 
paperwork that was completed at the time. I think Barclaycard made Mr W aware that the 
PPI was optional and a separate product from the credit card, and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because the application form included equally clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI and the Yes box has been ticked. 
Mr W suggests that the box was ticked after he posted it back to Barclaycard. Im not able to 
look into allegations of fraud. If Mr W believes Barclaycard acted dishonestly and wants to 
pursue that issue, hell need to do so through the appropriate authorities.
Its likely Mr W didnt make a claim on the policy when he was made redundant because 
hed forgotten he had the policy. Our adjudicator has told him what he needs to do if he 
wants to make a retrospective claim.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr W has told us about the existing provision he had in 
place. He says he would have received at least three months pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. He also says he had some savings, could have 
relied on family members to help him out, and that he was entitled to a death in service 
benefit. But the PPI would have given him peace of mind that his credit card payments could 
have been covered for up to 12 months if he couldnt work, leaving any sick pay and savings 
available to meet his other expenses. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. 
Relying on family isnt a guaranteed source of income, and the death in service benefit didnt 
duplicate the protection offered by the PPI. So I think he would have thought the PPI could 
have been a useful benefit and what he says doesnt change my conclusion.
Ive also taken into account what he says about his other PPI complaints being upheld. But 
Ive considered the individual circumstances surrounding the sale of this PPI policy and the 
outcome of his other complaints dont have a bearing on whether I conclude this policy was 
mis-sold.
But Barclaycard will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. To put that right, Barclaycard has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Barclaycard has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclaycard should also pay back to Mr W any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Barclaycard should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr W the difference 
between what Mr W owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclaycard should also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard does have to pay back to Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman