DRN-1870449
The complaint
Mr K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and closed his account. Hes also unhappy 
that   Monzo wont return money paid into his account to him.
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Monzo.
In June 2019, £5,100 was paid into Mr Ks account. Following this, Monzo decided to review 
Mr Ks account and asked him some questions about the payment. Whilst it conducted the 
review Monzo blocked Mr Ks access to his account.
Mr K told Monzo the money was payment for bitcoins hes sold. And it is a legitimate 
business transaction. So, Monzo asked Mr K to provide proof of his entitlement to the 
money. Mr K didnt provide the bank with any information. So, Monzo returned the money to 
the sending party. And closed Mr Ks account. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ks case. She said Monzo acted in line with its processes 
when asking Mr K for more information about the payment. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr K disagreed. He says hes out of pocket and the payment was for a bitcoin 
sale he made. So, the complaint has come to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr K has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint. 
I appreciate that hes upset that Monzo blocked his account and that this caused him 
inconvenience. I can also understand that this was no doubt stressful for him especially as at 
the time says he was in hospital. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that 
the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts.
In order to meet these requirements banks are required to have measures in place to review 
payments. As part of its review process Monzo is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about how they use their account. And its not for this service to interfere with the 
banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the 
customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Mr K opened his account with Monzo on 12 June 2019. So, he was a new customer to the 
bank. And from looking at the account statements I can see that Mr K was using his account 
for small purchases of no more than £15. So, I dont think its unreasonable for the bank to 
block an account if a relatively large amount of money is paid into it, and that account hasnt been open for very long. Monzo wanted to be sure about where the £5,100 had come from. 
So, it asked Mr K for information to show he was entitled to the money.
Monzo spoke to Mr K via its online chat facility and asked him to provide paperwork about 
the payments. The bank gave Mr K some examples of what he could provide such as 
invoices and receipts. Mr K told the bank that money was for a bitcoin sale hed made. And 
that he is bitcoin trader. So, I dont think it wouldve been too difficult for Mr K to be able to 
provide this information.
However, Mr K didnt provide anything to the bank to show that the money paid into his 
account was from the sale of bitcoins. And that he was entitled to the money. I note too that 
our investigator has asked Mr K for the information on several occasions. But to date he 
hasnt provided anything. So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Monzo returned the 
money to source. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Monzo were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when reviewing Mr Ks account and asking him questions. So, I dont think its done anything 
wrong. And so far, Mr K hasnt been able to show that he is entitled to the £5,100 which was 
paid into his account. So, Im not going to ask Monzo to return the money to him.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ks account. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Ks notice immediately. In my view that was reasonable, given the 
concerns the bank had about how Mr K was operating his account. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr K feels about whats happened. But overall, based 
on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say Monzo have acted unreasonably. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman