DRN-2604947
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage Mrs O and Mr O took out with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS) in 2007. The mortgaged property was taken into possession in January 2020. The 
main issues of the complaint are summarised below:
BOS issued the mortgage against a recently-built property that had no architectural 
certificate and wasnt validly insured;
In January 2020, BOS enforced a possession order from March 2018 despite Mrs O and 
Mr O having both signed and returned voluntary surrender forms along with the keys in 
the summer of 2018; and
BOS has indicated it will pursue them for the shortfall on sale, even though in Mr Os 
case, his liability for that was dealt with in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) and 
hes no longer liable.
Mrs O and Mr O  who are now separated from each other  have both consented to the 
complaint, but all of our dealings on it have been with Mr O.
What happened
Our investigator explained that the issue over the missing architectural certificate had been 
raised outside the time limits in our rules; BOS had objected to us considering it which meant 
we had no jurisdiction to do so. Mr O accepted this.
The investigator also explained that correspondence from BOS about the shortfall had been 
sent after the complaint had started. If either Mrs O or Mr O were unhappy about what BOS 
was doing, theyd need to make a fresh complaint to the business first, and refer it to us for 
separate consideration if unhappy with the response theyd received.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
For completeness, I agree with the investigator that anything to do with the documentation 
relating to the property at the time of purchase in 2007 is time-barred under our rules. I also 
agree that if Mrs O and/or Mr O wish to complain about action to recover any shortfall 
following sale in possession, they can do so but its not part of what Im deciding here.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ll start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. Im aware Mr O is unhappy about what 
information has been provided and shared and has made a subject access request. 
Thats his prerogative but its a separate matter from my review of the case. Its only relevant 
here if I consider any delay and/or limitation in the provision of information and evidence has 
impacted on my ability to decide the complaint fairly. Having considered everything that both 
parties have said and provided, Im satisfied I have all that I need to determine the case fairly 
and reasonably. Its my judgement to decide how reliable or accurate evidence (from either 
party) might be - and how much weight should be attached to it.
The possession order at the centre of the dispute was a straight 56-day order, granted in 
March 2018. I dont need to decide if BOS acted fairly in seeking the possession order; if the 
court hadnt thought the action fair, it could have chosen not to grant the order. For 
completeness, Ill make the point that in February 2018, BOS made a contemporaneous 
note of a phone call from Mr O in which he apparently told it he was planning to leave the 
country, had no desire to try and save the property and the business could have it.
So Ive next considered if BOS acted fairly in enforcing the March 2018 possession order. 
Again, BOS contemporaneous telephone records are helpful here. These show that a 
voluntary surrender of the keys to the property was discussed with Mr O in April 2018. Of 
course, both parties needed to agree to this, and steps were taken for both Mrs O and Mr O 
to sign the necessary forms, and for their solicitors to return the forms to BOS, along with the 
keys to the property. This was in May 2018.
All of that is fine as far as it goes, but in September 2018, BOS informed Mr O on the phone 
that the forms and keys hadnt been received. It asked Mr O to check the position with the 
solicitors; in my view that was a sensible and perfectly reasonable request on BOS part. 
Unfortunately, Mr O refused to do that, saying it was up to BOS to chase up the keys with 
the solicitors. Im afraid Mr rather mis-directed himself at that moment. BOS couldnt take the 
matter up with the solicitors; it had no authority to do so. It was always for Mrs O and Mr O to 
chase things up with the solicitors that were acting for them. 
BOS notes of that conversation also record Mr O telling it to go to court and apply for an 
eviction date. I dont think it unreasonable if BOS inferred from this call that Mr O had 
stopped co-operating with it.
The next notable event happened a month later in October 2018, when BOS received an 
incoming call from a lady presenting herself as Mrs O and Mr Os tenant in the mortgaged 
property. She was in possession of a letter sent to the mortgaged property and addressed to 
the occupier. This letters function was to put any occupier on notice of BOS intentions to 
begin eviction proceedings. 
Mr O has denied the property was tenanted at that time and told us hed report BOS to the 
police if it persisted in fraud by deception. That too is Mr Os prerogative, and Ive seen the 
evidence hes provided pointing to the tenant having left in 2017. But Ive listed to the phone call in question, and the person who rang BOS up in 
October 2018 clearly represented herself to the bank as Mrs O and Mr Os tenant. She 
clearly had access to the mortgaged property, because she was in possession of the letter 
from BOS putting the occupier on notice of possible eviction action. It was the very reason 
for her call.
When I consider that event in combination with the last conversation BOS had held with 
Mr O - in which hed refused to co-operate in locating the keys - I dont think it would have 
been unreasonable of BOS to mistrust what he had been telling it, and to believe instead 
that the property was still occupied by a tenant. Expressing that belief to Mr O is hardly fraud 
by deception in my view, but of course Mr O is free to think otherwise and pursue his own 
course with the police if he wishes. 
To be clear, Im not finding that Mr O was untruthful about his and Mrs Os intentions to 
surrender the property; but I am finding that it was understandable if BOS thought that was 
the case. But in any event, BOS contact notes show the last dialogue with Mr O (the 
August 2018 phone call) to have been him saying it should go ahead with court action to 
evict. 
Seen in that context, I consider it was quite reasonable for BOS to have embarked on the 
course of action it did; i.e. enforcing the court order to obtain possession of the mortgaged 
property. Indeed, my only slight surprise is that it waited as long as it did (from October 2018 
to January 2020) before doing so.
More generally, having considered the correspondence and contact history, I dont find there 
to have been a lack of engagement on BOS part with its borrowers. The letters it has sent, 
and the conversations that have taken place, are those Id expect to see from between a 
lender and borrowers whose circumstances are such that theyve stopped paying their 
mortgage. 
Lastly, Mr O says that its unfair he now has a court judgement on his credit file. Aside from 
the fact that I dont think BOS acted unfairly in using the court order to gain possession, 
Mr Os and Mrs Os credit files were always going to be the subject of adverse reports from 
BOS about the mortgage. The possession would be reported whether it was voluntary or 
enforced; plus the arrears that led to the possession were always going to be reported as 
well. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman