DRN-3240097
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as O has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance complaint after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr S, a director of O, has brought the complaint on Os behalf. 
What happened
O held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. O claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by Covid-19. O said a client (who Ill refer to as T) had an appointment on 17 
March 2020 where they reported a loss of sense of smell and taste. O said T reported other 
symptoms a few days later (23 March) and so cancelled their appointment. T received a 
positive antibody test in October 2020.
Covea turned down Os claim, as they thought O had closed its business due to the wider 
impact of the national pandemic. When O clarified that it had closed due to a client who had 
been at the premises having symptoms of Covid-19 Covea maintained that they had been 
correct in turning down the claim because there hadnt been an outbreak of Covid-19 at Os 
premises.
Covea said one person having a disease wouldnt constitute an outbreak. They said that the 
policy requires there to be an outbreak because the intention was to ensure that the policy 
wasnt repeatedly triggered by a single occurrence of a disease. They said the disease didnt 
have to start from the insureds premises but there must have been a sudden cluster of 
cases at the premises in order for there to have been cover. In any event, Covea didnt think 
O had closed as a result of a client having Covid-19. Instead, Covea thought O had closed in 
order to maintain social distancing and could have chosen to remain open for online 
consultations or emergency appointments.
Unhappy with Coveas response O brought its complaint to us. It made a number of detailed 
points and explained why it thought the Supreme Court judgment following the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case meant its claim should be paid. O said it had closed 
because a client had Covid-19, the policy was ambiguous and didnt exclude pandemics. So, 
it thought Covea should pay its claim. O provided us with Ts antibody test as well as 
screenshots showing a record of the symptoms T displayed at their appointment.  
Our Investigator looked into Os complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld because he 
didnt think O had shown there was most likely an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises.
O disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It thought the policy was ambiguous 
and believed it had shown there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises. O said if more 
than one case of Covid-19 was required to constitute an outbreak, it was unfair for it be 
penalised for closing and therefore preventing more cases of the disease. O was also 
unhappy that Covea had initially turned down the claim without knowing the reasons O 
closed. O asked for the Ombudsman to review its complaint in line with the Supreme Courts 
ruling on causation and proximate cause.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
O has made a number of detailed points. I have considered all of them but dont intend to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to 
this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Os business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks which might impact a business, 
but different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Os claim.
The relevant part of the policy provides cover for business interruption or interreference in 
consequence of:
the occurrence at the premises of any outbreak of human infectious or 
contagious disease other than acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) or 
an AIDS related condition
Covid-19 is a human infectious or contagious disease. So, for this to provide cover, the 
interruption or interference with Os business would need to be in consequence of an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises. 
An outbreak isnt defined in the policy, so Ive thought about how it should be interpreted. 
Some dictionary definitions give the meaning of an outbreak as something (generally 
unwelcome, such as a war) suddenly occurring. In the case of war, for example, this would 
only require one war. The Word Health Organisations website says that an outbreak is:
the occurrence of cases of a disease in excess of what would normally be 
expected in a defined community, geographical area or season
However, I think its likely that a court would find that there needs to be more than one 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises in order to be an outbreak. 
In the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case, the Supreme Court didnt specifically 
consider how many cases would be needed for an outbreak. But at paragraph 69 the court 
said:
Nor for that matter could an outbreak of disease be regarded as one 
occurrence, unless the individual cases of disease described as an outbreak 
have a sufficient degree of unity in relation to time, locality and cause
Also, in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Co Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), the 
Judge referred to an outbreak as plural. 
Ive considered that any case of Covid-19 at Os premises would be part of the wider general 
outbreak of Covid-19. But I think its clear in Os policy that its the occurrence of the 
outbreak itself that needs to be at Os premises, rather than an occurrence of the disease itself. I appreciate that O has interpreted the wording of the policy in a different way, but I 
dont think the wording would be considered ambiguous just because O has understood it to 
have a different meaning. A contract must be interpreted by asking what a reasonable 
person, in possession of all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties at the time they entered into the contract, would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean.  I think any ambiguity in Os policy can be resolved by 
considering the language of the policy. 
Ive therefore considered whether O has shown there was most likely an outbreak of Covid-
19 at its premises.  
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement in every case to 
demonstrate a case of disease at the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that the was an 
outbreak of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, 
the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a 
loss its policy covers.
O has been consistent in its account of its client, T. It said T attended the premises for an 
appointment on 17 March 2020 and reported a loss of taste and smell. However, as this 
wasnt a recognised symptom at the time T didnt have any reason to think they might have 
Covid-19. On 23 March 2020 T got in touch with O to say they thought they had Covid-19 
as they had developed symptoms such as a cough, muscle pain and headache. In October 
2020 T received a positive antibody test result.
Ive seen a copy of screenshots from March 2020 to support that T had a loss of taste and 
smell at their appointment and later cancelled a second appointment due to experiencing 
further symptoms, but I dont think I need to make a finding on whether it was most likely T 
had Covid-19 or that they were at Ts premises. I say that because I havent seen anything 
to indicate it was most likely that anyone else at Ts premises had Covid-19. 
O said that staff were witnessing clients cancelling appointments as they were becoming 
unwell or had family members that were becoming unwell. However, I havent seen 
anything other than Os comments to support this and in this case that isnt enough to 
persuade me anyone else at Os premises had Covid-19. So, even if T did have Covid-19, it 
would only be one case of Covid-19 and so I dont think I can reasonably conclude that 
there was an outbreak at Os premises.
Ive also noted Os point that in taking the decision to close it prevented there being other 
cases of Covid-19 at its premises. However, I have to consider the circumstances as they 
were and not what could have happened if O hadnt closed.   
O has referred to the Supreme Court judgment but whether the claim should be paid still 
depends on the terms and conditions of the individual policy. While I accept that each 
occurrence was a separate cause of the Governments decision to implement regulations, 
Os policy wording would still require there to be an outbreak of Covid-19 at the premises, 
rather than one occurrence. So in this case the judgment doesnt impact Os claim because 
I dont think O has shown there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at its premises. Coveas initial error in why they declined the claim
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration at Covea initially turning down the claim without knowing the 
reasons for Os closure. However, as O is the eligible complainant, I can only consider the 
impact of that on O. While the error did cause O some inconvenience in having to clarify the 
reasons for closure, in this case, the error didnt change the outcome of the claim and I 
dont think it caused O such inconvenience to require Covea to pay O any compensation.  
I recognise that this isnt the outcome that O was hoping for, given that it closed in order to 
ensure the safety of its customers. However, having considered the matter very carefully, I 
dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Os claim or do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman