DRN-3998806
The complaint
Miss G complains OneSavings Bank Plc (trading as Kent Reliance):
Hasnt done enough to make up for overcharging her interest on her mortgage when it 
should have been reduced in line with the Bank of England base rate (base rate).
Has calculated the amount of her monthly interest incorrectly.
Miss G has also questioned whether Kent Reliance adjusted her account correctly after she 
made extra payments. But she seemed to accept our investigators findings that nothing had 
gone wrong. So this provisional decision is about the first two points only.
Miss G has mentioned to me that someone else was involved in helping her to apply for her 
mortgage. But as the account is in her name, I will refer to her only.
What happened
Around January 2006 Miss G took out an interest only, lifetime tracker rate mortgage for 
£100,000. The mortgage tracked the base rate plus 1% (the margin) throughout the term of 
the mortgage. At that time, the base rate was 4.5%. So the rate on Miss Gs mortgage was 
5.5%. The term of the mortgage was 35 years with her initial monthly repayments set at 
around £458. Until around April 2018, Miss G received government support towards her 
mortgage interest (SMI). Kent Reliance has said the amount paid in SMI payments was 
more than the amount it was charging her in interest.
On 11 March 2020, the base rate changed from 0.75% to 0.25%. And on 19 March 2020, it 
changed again to 0.10%. But Miss G noticed the interest rate applied to her outstanding 
balance didnt change. After raising a complaint to Kent Reliance, it agreed to reduce the 
rate from the first day of the following month  so 1 April 2020. And it offered to apply any 
overpayments shed made as a result of the delay to the outstanding balance or, pay it to her 
directly. Kent Reliance also offered Miss G £50 to make up for any distress and 
inconvenience she was caused.
Miss G was unhappy with Kent Reliances response as she thought the rate reduction 
should have been applied from March 2020 and not the following month. So she asked our 
service to look into things. Kent Reliance said its terms dont specify how quickly the rate 
needs to be changed if there is a reduction in the base rate. So it chose to apply the rate 
change from the first day of the following month in line with the terms for a rate increase. As 
it no longer held the terms and conditions from when Miss G took out the mortgage in 2006, 
our investigator asked for the most recent terms which it said were from 2016.
Based on the information provided, our investigator upheld the complaint. She found the 
2016 terms said the rate would be changed automatically on the day of any change in the 
base rate. So she directed Kent Reliance to refund Miss G any overpayments of interest 
applied throughout the duration of the mortgage and increase its compensation to £100. 
Kent Reliance didnt accept our investigators view. It said the terms and conditions shed 
relied on werent relevant to Miss Gs account and it provided further documentation to show 
it hadnt acted outside the correct terms. So the case was passed to me to decide. In the 
meantime, Miss G sent me some paperwork she had from when she first took out the 
mortgage, and statements shes been sent since. And Kent Reliance sent me the oldest 
terms it holds from 2013 which also say changes to the rate will happen immediately.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. Ive copied my provisional findings below 
which forms the basis of this decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. At the moment, Im not planning to uphold 
this complaint. I know this will be very disappointing for Miss G who has been waiting a long 
time for an answer. I thank her for her patience and I hope my explanation will help her to 
understand why I dont currently think Kent Reliance has acted unfairly. 
Interest rate reduction in line with the base rate
Kent Reliance has said the only mortgage terms and conditions that apply to Miss Gs 
account are the ones from when she took it out in 2006. Miss Gs explained she hasnt 
received any updated terms and conditions since she took out the mortgage so Im minded 
to accept what Kent Reliance has said. And I think its more likely the terms applicable to this 
account are those from the time of the sale rather than the terms from 2016.
Neither party has the original terms and conditions provided in 2006. Thats not unusual 
considering the amount of time that has passed. So Ive relied on the information that is 
available to reach a decision in this case.
Kent Reliance has given us a copy of the mortgage offer and mortgage deed. Its highlighted 
that the mortgage offer shows rate increases happen on the first day of the following month 
and the mortgage deeds say the rate can be reduced without formality. It thinks this 
suggests it doesnt need to be reduced within a specific time  or, at least no sooner than the 
following month. I dont agree this by itself is enough to support what Kent Reliance has 
said. So Ive considered it in light of all of the other information I have.
Ive had a look at the Wayback Machine, a website which maintains an archive of Kent 
Reliances website and links to previous mortgage terms. The furthest back I have been able 
to view any archived documentation is from 2011. Within the general mortgage guide from 
that year, I can see the terms say if there is a reduction in the base rate, Kent Reliance will 
reflect that reduction on the first day of the following month.
I appreciate Miss Gs mortgage started a number of years before the date the guide is from. 
But it currently suggests to me there have been various terms relating to rate changes over 
the years. So, whilst I know the 2013 and 2016 terms Kent Reliance has provided say it will 
adjust rates immediately, I cant say theyre an accurate reflection of what would have been 
in Miss Gs mortgage terms in 2006. 
Miss Gs given us a copy of the key facts document that was given to her by her broker. This 
document is from when Miss G applied for her mortgage and sets out key information about 
the agreement to help her decide if shed want to go ahead.Under section 4 of the key facts document, it says Following a change in Bank Base Rate 
the mortgage rate will be adjusted within 1 month. I appreciate this document was from 
before the mortgage was taken out and is separate from the terms and conditions. But taken 
together with the mortgage offer and deed and the closest mortgage guide Ive been able to 
locate, Im currently satisfied its more likely Kent Reliance was not obliged to immediately 
adjust Miss Gs mortgage rate in line with the base rate reduction.
I know Miss G has suggested our service contacts the broker who originally sold her 
mortgage for the original terms. But at the moment, Im satisfied I have enough information 
to reach a fair provisional decision on this case without doing so.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I think Kent Reliance has acted fairly in backdating the 
interest rate reduction to the first day of April 2020 in line with the likely terms applying to 
Miss Gs account at the time. So I dont think it needs to do anything more than it originally 
offered to put things right in this case.
Interest calculations
I understand Miss G is concerned Kent Reliance hasnt calculated her monthly interest 
amount correctly. She says its overcharging her by about £4 to £5 per month. But I think its 
more likely Miss G is coming up with a different figure because of the way shes calculating 
the interest.
Miss G has worked out the monthly rate by dividing the total annual interest by 12 (months). 
Kent Reliance has explained Miss Gs mortgage accrues interest daily. So it calculates the 
monthly rate by first working out the interest accrued per day and multiplying that by the 
number of days in that particular month and I dont currently think thats unusual or 
unreasonable. And having looked at the various terms and conditions I have available, I can 
see they consistently say interest will accrue daily but be charged monthly. So at the 
moment, I dont think Kent Reliance has done anything wrong.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached my final decision. 
Kent Reliance said it had no further comments to make. Miss G gave a summary of her 
complaint and my provisional decision. And whilst she explained overall that she accepted 
my decision, she said in summary:
She doesnt think Kent Reliance carried out the offer it originally made in its final 
response letter. 
If Kent Reliance has paid the offer, she would like confirmation of this. But if it hasnt, she 
would like it to be directed to do so now as the offer is in line with my findings.  
She accepts the KFI document is the closest available document to the original 
mortgage agreement and she expects both parties to comply with it going forward. 
Kent Reliance has now said it cant see that the offer has been paid to Miss G. But it has 
confirmed it will still honour it. So my final decision has been reached with that in mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The provisional decision I reached was based on Kent Reliance carrying out the offer it 
made to Miss G in its final response letter. Thats because it would put her in the position 
she would have been in if her mortgage rate had been amended in line with the likely terms 
of the account when the base rate fell. So I didnt think Kent Reliance needed to do anything 
more than what it had offered. 
Overall, having looked at the responses Ive received from Miss G and Kent Reliance, I see 
no reason to change my conclusions set out in my provisional decision. Kent Reliance has 
confirmed it will still honour the offer it made in its final response letter which Im satisfied is 
reasonable in this case. And as Im not upholding the complaint overall, I cant direct it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint or ask OneSavings Bank Plc trading 
as Kent Reliance to do anything more than its already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman