DRN-2965536
The complaint
Ms M complains that her financial advisers, Hoyl Independent Advisers Ltd trading as Hoyl 
Independent Advisers, caused her to receive incorrect details for making payment into her 
ISA. This exposed her to the loss of £15,000 as a result of the money being sent to the 
wrong party.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms M was contacted by Hoyl via email to ask whether she wanted to make a 
payment to her ISA for that tax year. Ms M confirmed that she would like to do so and asked 
how this would be facilitated. Hoyl explained that as the end of the tax year was approaching 
the best method would be a bank transfer, the details for which would be provided by email. 
A few days later they were, and Ms M made the payment of £15,000 using the details. 
Shortly after, it became apparent thered been a problem and some of the emails sent to 
Ms M had not been genuine. It transpired that the email sent to Ms M containing the bank 
details had been altered, so payment had been made to an account belonging to an 
unknown party. 
Ms M complained to Hoyl. It was sympathetic to her position but didnt feel it had acted 
incorrectly. It considered that blame for the situation lay with the unknown party that had 
manipulated the emails, having compromised her internet service in some way. As a gesture 
of goodwill, it offered to pay a contribution of £158 towards the cost of Ms M setting up a new 
service. 
Ms M didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us, but our investigator reached 
broadly the same conclusion as Hoyl. He said, in brief;
The evidence suggested that Hoyl had sent the email containing the correct payment 
details to Ms M, but it had been intercepted and the details changed.
Some of the emails within the exchange had been date stamped WAST  West 
African Summer Time  indicating that theyd been generated outside the UK. 
Further, some emails sent from Ms Ms account had contained spelling and 
grammatical errors, not in keeping with her usual communications, again suggesting 
theyd been sent by another party. 
It seemed likely therefore that Ms Ms email service had been compromised, as 
opposed to Hoyls. 
There was nothing in Ms Ms client agreement with Hoyl that set out how payments 
had to be made.
There was also no industry guidance that indicated that payment arrangements 
shouldnt be made by email. 
So, although Ms M had clearly not been at fault, equally there was nothing to show 
that Hoyl had acted incorrectly or unreasonably. 
Mr M, on Ms Ms behalf, responded to say that she didnt accept the investigators view. He 
said that if a telephone call had been made to provide the ISA payment details rather than 
an email being sent the situation wouldnt have arisen. And if details were to be provided by 
email then this shouldve been by way of an attachment on headed paper. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a clearly a very unfortunate matter and I have every sympathy for Ms M. But 
having looked carefully at the circumstances, I find Ive reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
It seems to be generally accepted that there was some sort of compromise of Ms Ms 
internet service while she was travelling abroad. This led to the interception of emails from 
Hoyl to Ms M and the alteration of the payment details for the ISA contribution. 
Where Ms Ms particular concerns with Hoyl lie are with the method it used to communicate 
with her and send the payment details. In short, was it acting responsibility when it chose to 
engage with her by email regarding payment to her ISA?
As I understand it, Hoyl had gone through a similar process a couple of years ago with 
Ms M, arranging payment to the ISA by email. On that occasion everything proceeded 
smoothly, as intended. No concerns were raised at that time, as I would expect given the 
success of the process, and I dont think Hoyl were wrong to adopt the process then or in 
2019. 
As the investigator noted, theres nothing in the agreement between Hoyl and Ms M that 
explains how payment details will be communicated. Theres nothing that says that such 
details will only be shared by telephone. Equally, theres nothing from an industry guidance 
standpoint that suggests payment details should not be sent by email. 
I accept that on this occasion a phone call wouldve likely prevented the problem from 
arising. But while Hoyl could have called Ms M, I dont think there was any requirement that 
it should have done, particularly as the process had passed off without incident previously. 
And there was no also no requirement that if details were sent by email then they should be 
sent in a particular format. 
As Ive said, I have great sympathy for Ms M, and I do appreciate how distressing this must 
have been for her. But I dont think I can fairly place any responsibility for that with Hoyl. I 
note that the investigator has provided Ms M with details of the bank that received the 
money and a complaint is being pursued in that respect, alongside investigation of the 
matter as whole by the appropriate agencies. I hope that there will eventually be a positive 
outcome for Ms M. 
In respect of Hoyls offer to Ms M of some costs regarding her internet service, if thats not 
yet been paid and she should now wish to take up the offer she should liaise directly with 
Hoyl. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold he complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman