DRN-3732955
The complaint
Miss E complains about how UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line (UKI) handled 
her motor insurance claim. She says her car was returned to her twice, without repairs being 
completed adequately.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
In September 2021, Miss Es car was damaged in an accident. UKI arranged for repairs to 
be carried out by its approved garage. However, the car needed to be returned to the garage 
twice. There was a warning light on the dashboard.
Miss E raised a complaint with UKI who said the issue had been identified and resolved. It 
acknowledged that Miss E still wasnt confident that the repairs had been carried out 
correctly. It said it would be willing to reimburse Miss E for the cost of a report from one of 
the car manufacturers dealerships if outstanding issues relating to the accident or repairs 
were identified. UKI paid Miss E £100 for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.
Following this, Miss E arranged for a manufacturers dealership to inspect the car. The 
dealership identified several issues that made the car unroadworthy. The manufacturers 
dealer made the vehicle roadworthy but further parts were needed in order to restore the car 
to its pre-accident condition. UKI authorised for the repairs to be completed by Miss Es 
chosen repairer. It said the manufacturers dealership would liaise with UKIs engineer so 
UKI could arrange delivery of Miss Es vehicle and for a hire car to be supplied for the 
duration of the repair. UKI paid Miss E a further £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss E remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and recommended UKI pay Miss E a further £200. He didnt think the 
£300 UKI had already paid Miss E was enough to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
shed experienced.
UKI disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said it had acknowledged its mistakes and 
believed the compensation it had already awarded Miss E was sufficient.
UKI said the £200 it had paid for Miss Es most recent complaint took into account the £175 
it had awarded (for her two previous complaints) and the overall customer journey.
UKI said communication with Miss E was made slightly more complicated because shed 
requested email contact only. It said there was a ten day delay (in November) due to Miss E 
cancelling the arrangements it had made for the recovery of her vehicle and a hire car. It 
understood why Miss E didnt want to let her car go until a hire car was provided. But it said 
she had delayed contacting the hire car company and replying to messages from UKIs 
engineer. UKI said it was trying to proactively accommodate Miss E, but she wasnt co-
operating with it.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
To be clear, Ive only considered the issues Miss E has complained of which occurred prior 
to UKIs complaint response letter of 7 December 2021. If Miss E has any concerns about 
events after that date, she would need to raise these with UKI as a separate complaint to 
allow it the opportunity to address them.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly.
UKI has acknowledged mistakes have been made which have resulted in distress and 
inconvenience for Miss E. However, it believes it had already paid adequate compensation 
to Miss E before she brought her complaint to our service. 
UKI has sent us a copy of its response to a complaint Miss E raised in September 2021, 
shortly after the accident. In this letter, UKI said it would be paying her £75 to compensate 
her for a delay in providing her with a hire car and for not knowing where her damaged car 
was. Miss E hasnt included these issues in the complaint she brought to our service. So, I 
havent considered them in this decision.
Miss E asked our service to consider her concerns about inadequate repairs on her car. She 
says it was returned to her in an unfit state twice and it failed its MOT when it was returned 
to her. UKI responded to these concerns in its letters of 8 October and 7 December 2021, 
awarding her a total of £300 compensation.
Our service would typically consider this level of compensation appropriate in situations 
where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a 
reasonable effort to sort out. The impact (if mild) might last a few days or weeks. This 
compensation might be sufficient in circumstances where theres been some inconvenience 
or lower levels of distress and loss of expectation.
UKI has acknowledged that its approved repairers failed to complete adequate repairs to 
Miss Es car, despite it being returned to the garage for rectification work. Miss E had to go 
to the trouble of arranging for an independent inspection to be carried out by a 
manufacturers dealership. It was then established that there were a number of issues with 
the car and it had been returned to her in a condition that wasnt roadworthy. 
Miss E says she was left driving the car for several weeks, despite her concerns that it 
wasnt roadworthy. She says this made her feel quite anxious. As there was an issue with 
the headlights, she had to avoid driving after dusk. This limited where she could go and how 
long she could stay for. Miss E says she also had to rely on family members to help 
transport her young children after dark.
I appreciate UKI feels it did as much as it could to arrange for Miss Es vehicle to be taken to 
her chosen garage in November 2021. It says Miss E needed to contact the recovery and 
hire car companies directly, presumably to agree a suitable day and time. However, Miss E 
has told us that she had difficulty speaking to UKI and its agents during her working day 
because of the nature of her job. I dont think she would have been in this position if the 
repairs had been carried out effectively in the first place. Having considered the impact of UKIs mistakes on Miss E, Im persuaded that these caused 
Miss E significant inconvenience, in addition to worry and distress. I dont think the £300 UKI 
has already paid her is enough. So, I think it would be appropriate for UKI to pay Miss E 
additional compensation.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Miss E an additional £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Es complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman