DRN-4063608
The complaint
Mr M complains Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded transactions hes disputed and fees hes 
paid as a result.
What happened
Mr M has a Metro Bank card and a debit card.
Mr M was abroad in October 2022 and stayed with a friend who he says hes known for over 
10 years. He says he used his card for three small purchases whilst he was abroad and that 
he tried to use his card in the airport on the way back, but it didnt work.
Mr M says he subsequently discovered over £18,000s worth of transactions had gone out of 
his account. He contacted Metro Bank disputing these transactions.
Mr M told Metro Bank that he believed his friend had repeatedly taken his card from the hotel 
safe they shared, used it, and then replaced it. He said that he wouldnt have noticed this 
given that hes blind. He told Metro Bank that hed been in a relationship with his friend and 
that he was treated as family  that he still spoke to his friends daughters and that he hadnt 
reported the matter to the police. Metro Bank said it would investigate.
Metro Bank didnt get back to Mr M until January 2023  it apologised for the delay in doing 
so and offered £40 in compensation. But Metro Bank also said that the disputed transactions 
were a civil matter as Mr M knew the person who was responsible, so it wasnt going to 
refund the transactions.
Mr M complained about Metro Banks handling of his disputed transactions claim, including 
the fact that it had allowed another £3,000 plus worth of transactions to go out after hed 
reported them, the way one individual in particular had spoken to him and the outcome of the 
claim itself. He was also unhappy that Metro Bank hadnt texted him to check if any of the 
transactions were genuine. He complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and upheld it saying that Mr M hadnt 
authorised the transactions. Mr M was happy with our investigators recommendations. 
Metro Bank wasnt, saying that it couldnt rule out the possibility that Mr M had given his 
friend permission to use his card and PIN as he hadnt reported the matter to the police, had 
a long-standing relationship with them and was still in touch with their daughters. Metro Bank 
also said that Mr M would have spotted the transactions sooner if hed used online banking.
Metro Bank asked for an ombudsman to look into this complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr M had his card repeatedly taken and replaced whilst he was away 
abroad and that he didnt notice this as hes blind and it was a friend who was taking his card 
from a hotel safe they were sharing. Nor do I think Mr M was negligent  hed known the 
person in question for over 10 years and was treated like family. In short, Im satisfied that 
the transactions Mr M disputed werent authorised by him.
Metro Bank told Mr M that it wasnt going to refund the disputed transactions because he 
knew the person who had carried them out, so the issue was a civil matter. And it took into 
account the fact that he was still speaking to his friends daughters and hadnt reported the 
matter to the police. I can see what Metro Bank was thinking here, but I dont agree what it 
said was fair. Ill explain why.
Metro Bank ought to refund transactions that it hasnt evidenced are authorised given the 
Payment Services Regulations. The Payment Service Regulations dont say that a payment 
service provider doesnt have to do so where the payment service user knows the person 
who has carried out the transactions or where they havent reported the matter to the police. 
So, I dont think Metro Bank acted fairly when it refused to refund the disputed transactions 
for those reasons. Nor do I agree that this shows Mr M gave his friend permission to use his 
card and PIN. Im satisfied, based on the evidence, that Mr M was unaware of the activity on 
his account at the time and was genuinely shocked and upset when he discovered what had 
happened. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Metro Bank should restore 
Mr Ms account to the position it would have been had the transactions not occurred.
Putting things right
Metro Bank should refund all of the transactions Mr M disputed  in total he disputed 37 
transactions worth just over £19,000  together with the fees he was charged for those 
transactions to be processed  worth just over £420. In addition, Metro Bank should pay 8% 
simple interest on these refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement. Weve 
sent Metro Bank a list of the payments and fees in question  totalling £19,500.33.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Metro Bank PLC to refund 
all of the transactions Mr M disputed together with the fees he was charged for those 
transactions to be processed. In addition, Im requiring Metro Bank PLC to pay 8% simple 
interest on these refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman