DRN-2436561
The complaint
 Miss Ds complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), on behalf of her business D, relates 
to the closure of her business accounts.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. In short 
however, Miss D has complained about HSBCs decision to close her business accounts 
and the service she received during that process. Miss D has said that because of the 
treatment she received from HSBC she lost the sale of her business resulting in a financial 
loss. Further she suffered significant upset, inconvenience and distress.
HSBC apologised for some elements of her complaint, namely the several occasions when 
Miss D was given incorrect information regarding her accounts closure and her closing 
balance. In recognition of those failures HSBC offered D £600 in compensation. But HSBC 
argued that their decision to close the accounts was correct and felt it hadnt done anything 
wrong as it had given proper notice.
Miss D was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that the amount of 
compensation offered was insufficient and that £900 would be a fair and reasonable 
resolution.
Miss D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. The complaint crystallised into what the correct level of compensation might be and 
following the issue of our investigators view, Miss D (In her letter to this service on 10 
March) reluctantly appears to have accepted that view as she said she hoped to receive the 
reluctantly agreed amount. But as the matter had already been put before me, and I had 
considered it in some depth by this point, I have decided to issue my decision in any event 
for the sake of completeness. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The evidence I have seen shows that Miss D had business accounts with HSBC, which she 
opened in 2009/10. At that time, she was in partnership with another person. In 2011/12 
Miss D commenced trading on her own and notified her HSBC business manager of that 
fact. HSBC has accepted that and also that Miss D was not given the correct advice, namely 
that she would need to change her partnership accounts to that of a sole trader.
Between April and October 2019 HSBC began a Safeguarding Review of Miss Ds business 
accounts and this brought to light a discrepancy in the information HSBC held regarding the 
ownership status of the business. On 24 April HSBC wrote to Miss D advising her of the 
safeguarding procedure and asking her to contact them. A reminder was sent on 9 May. On 
1 August HSBC sent a notice of its intention to close her accounts, giving 65 days notice, the 
closure date being 10 October 2019. HSBC have said that on 11 October, and as a gesture 
of goodwill it extended the notice period by a further 30 days with a new closure date of 10 
November being provided. That they say was set out in a letter issued to Miss D on 11 
October.
For Miss Ds part she said she has answered every piece of correspondence sent to her by 
HSBC and that she hadnt received the notice of intended accounts closure. She said that on 
4 October she notified HSBC, in branch, that she was working from home and not her former 
business premises, although HSBC have no record of that. The notice of intended closure of 
Miss Ds business account was sent to her former business address. 
Miss D has explained that the interruption to her business, which included access to her 
accounts being blocked, and burdensome and unnecessary administrative work, caused her 
immense stress and inconvenience resulting in her having to provide explanations to her 
clients, some of whom she lost. She has explained that she was not easily able to access 
her accounts at times, as there were issues with passing through security and HSBC not 
accepting the correct information she was providing. Miss D has said that and resulted in her 
losing credibility with her clients and being threatened with legal action. There is evidence 
provided that Miss D was in fact locked out of her telephone banking. 
On 15 November Miss D was unable to access her accounts online and upon calling HSBC 
they agreed to extend the notice of closure by another 30 days. But, on the 26 November 
HSBC withdrew the extension and the accounts were closed the following day. Three weeks 
later HSBC issued a cheque to Miss D for the account balance.
 
Taking all of this evidence into account I am satisfied that HSBC did issue the letters they 
say they did. There is little evidence to support Miss Ds claim that she told HSBC of her 
change of address on 4 October, but I accept she did, taking into account HSBCs poor 
handling of her change of business status in 2012. Even if I accept Miss D didnt receive the 
earlier letters from April, May and August it is clear she knew of the intention to close the 
account on 11 October because that is the date she was given a 30 day extension on the 
telephone. But those earlier letters were sent to her business address at a time before she 
changed address and so it is reasonable to assume they were delivered. It is also 
reasonable to assume Miss D would have put in place a mail direct too. There is also no 
evidence of any returned mail from the Post Office and no evidence of earlier difficulties with 
postal delivery.
And whilst HSBC were in error for failing to advise and take appropriate steps to correct and 
change the partnership account to that of a sole trader, it was entitled to issue the notice to 
close the account regardless of that error. So, I find Miss D was given sufficient notice and 
HSBC were entitled by virtue of the terms and conditions to do so. 
That said it is clear, and HSBC accept to an extent, that there have been failings on their 
part. Miss D has said she suffered a breakdown and considered suicide on a number of 
occasions. I am extremely sorry to hear that, and do accept that her having to deal with this 
issue would have been very stressful for her. 
In her complaint to HSBC on 20 February 2020 Miss D confirmed she had by that point lost 
all her clients and had had to stop trading due to the actions of HSBC. In that letter she did 
not mention the loss of her business sale and that was only mentioned on 31 March 2020 in 
Miss Ds response to HSBCs final response letter. Miss D has said had received an offer to 
buy her business from a third party business and has provided a picture of an email dated 24 
June 2019 supporting that contention. That email is framed in vague terms and cannot be 
classed as a firm offer since, as it specifies, due diligence had not been completed. Im satisfied therefore that there was no concluded or binding agreement for the sale. Further it 
relates to further discussions being envisaged at the end of July but there is no further 
documentation for me to consider from that time. I am not satisfied therefore that the sale of 
Miss Ds business has been lost due to any action or fault on the part of HSBC. 
Putting things right
 Miss D was however certainly put to much inconvenience, trouble and upset, all of which 
could have been avoided had HSBC attended to the closure of her account correctly in 
2012. I would regard the extent of that to be substantial, and the range for substantial 
trouble and upset awards by this service is £500 - £2,000. Our investigator increased the 
amount HSBC should pay D to close to the mid-point of this range and I think that is fair and 
reasonable and I agree with it.
My final decision
 HSBC has accepted that it should pay D £900 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair 
and reasonable. So, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay D £900.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman