DRN-2771626
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt appoint another legal representative to
represent him under the legal expenses insurance (LEI) section of his car insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr F notified Aviva that hed been involved in a car accident. It agreed to
appoint a panel law firm (the law firm) to represent him under the LEI section of his car
insurance policy so that he could pursue a claim for bodily injury.
Mr F says that hes disabled as defined by the Equality Act 2010 and as a result of the
condition he lives with, he requires certain reasonable adjustments to be in place when
communicating with him. He says he asked the law firm to complete the claim form for him
and to send him a copy so that he could consider before it was submitted. He says the law
firm told him it was unable to do this. He also says he requested that the law firm contact him
in writing rather than over the phone.
Unhappy he complained to Aviva on 7 March 2020. Aviva acknowledged the complaint and
wrote to Mr F on 10 March 2020 confirming that it had forwarded his complaint to the law
firm to address.
Mr F requested that Aviva appoint another law firm to represent him in his claim under his
LEI. It declined to do so. Unhappy Mr F complained to our Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, relying on the terms of the policy, he didnt
think Aviva had to appoint another legal representative to represent him.
Mr F disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to look at afresh.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2021 explaining why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint. An extract of my provisional findings is set out below: 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which Aviva must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly
The relevant industry guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must
handle claims promptly and fairly.
Under the policy, Aviva is entitled to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Mr F
succeeding in his claim and, if Mr F had more chance of succeeding in that claim than not,
representing him in that action (subject to the remaining policy terms).
After a few days of handling his claim, Mr F was unhappy with the way his case was being
handled by the law firm and he says it discriminated against him, in breach of the Equality
Act 2010. Our Service cant consider complaints about the general legal advice or service
given by a firm of solicitors; theyre not under Avivas control. They are independent
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures, which I understand Mr F
has now exhausted.
Our Service can only consider whether Aviva did anything wrong in the way it handled the
insurance claim.
The LEI section of the policy says that Aviva will appoint a lawyer to act for Mr F on receipt
of his claim, which Im satisfied it did here. Looking at the areas in which the law firm
practice, Im satisfied that it did have the required experience to represent Mr F in his claim.
When a policyholder raises concerns to their insurer about the legal representation arranged
under the LEI, wed generally expect the insurer to address such complaint, even if that
means passing it on to the legal representative to consider. Im satisfied Aviva did that
promptly here.
But wed also generally expect an insurer to monitor the progress of the complaint, ascertain
the outcome from the legal representative and relay the answer back to the policyholder.
Ive seen reference to the law firm providing Mr F with an answer to the concerns hed raised
about it, dated 3 April 2020. Ive asked both parties for a copy of this letter, but I havent
been provided with one. So, I dont know what it says.
Aviva has told us in its email of 23 November 2020 that it cant provide us with a copy of the
law firms response as the letter provides confidential information that we are not entitled
to. This implies it never received a copy from the law firm and Ive seen nothing on its
system notes to suggest that it did.
However, I would reasonably expect Aviva to ascertain from the law firm its response to
Mr Fs complaint and relay that back to him, as it was ultimately responsible for managing
his LEI claim under the policy. And I think it shouldve been more proactive in doing so  in
order to reasonably satisfy itself that the law firm had at least addressed Mr F concerns.
From Avivas system notes, after passing the complaint on to the law firm, theres no record
of Aviva having contacted the law firm to follow up Mr Fs concerns until 21 May 2020; and
that was after our Service had contacted Aviva requesting its comments on Mr Fs complaint.
The notes reflect that, during that call, the law firm set out its version of events to Aviva in
response to Mr Fs complaint. And that, having received its response, Mr F had said that he
would be escalating his complaint externally as he still felt discriminated against.
Ive also seen a call note between Mr F and one of Avivas representatives, dated
22 May 2020. Mr F reiterated his concerns about the law firm, the way it had initially handled
his claim and why he felt Aviva should appoint another legal representative to act for him. 
The note also reflects that the person he spoke to at Aviva offered to contact the law firm on
Monday and see if we could resolve it for him.
Shortly after the conversation with Mr F, an internal email exchange between two of Avivas
representatives reflects that they would speak to the person who looked after the LEI
scheme to see if the law firm could allocate Mr Fs claim to another legal representative.
The system notes I have end on 29 May 2020. Ive asked Aviva to confirm what happened
thereafter and whether it did ask the law firm to reallocate Mr Fs case to another law firm.
Its told us that any suggestion that it would appoint another legal representative wouldvebeen incorrect as the terms of the policy are clear; Mr F was only free to appoint another
legal representative if it was necessary to start legal proceedings and that hadnt happened
yet. So, based on this response, I think its reasonable to conclude that the law firm wasnt
contacted and theres nothing in the notes Ive seen to show that the law was contacted on
25 May 2020, as Mr F was told would happen.
Ive also asked for Avivas updated notes which havent been provided. Aviva says there are
no further notes until 16 November 2020 and that this relates to the other drivers insurer
disputing liability  not the complaint Mr F had raised.
So, Ive seen nothing to say that Aviva provided Mr F with an update after his conversation
on 22 May 2020  or provided him with its answer to the concerns hed raised about the law
firm. Even if that was only to confirm that it was satisfied that the law firm had undertaken an
investigation into his concerns and had satisfactorily addressed his complaint points. And Im
not persuaded it was even able to do this, having not obtained a copy of the law firms
response to Mr Fs complaint dated 3 April 2020.
The law firm has recently confirmed to Aviva that it hasnt undertaken any work on Mr Fs
case since April 2020 because he wanted to exhaust the avenues available to him, by
escalating his complaint externally. And as a result of escalating his complaint externally,
hes told us that the law firm has agreed to pay some compensation to him.
I dont know on what basis that payment has been made. However, Im looking at what
happened in the months after Mr F first raised his complaint to Aviva, in March 2020, and
what Aviva shouldve reasonably done then.
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Aviva did enough by simply forwarding Mr Fs
concerns to the law firm in this particular case, and then not proactively following up the
complaint and providing an answer to Mr F.
Im currently persuaded that Aviva ought reasonably to have done more to ensure that the
law firm had adequately investigated  and addressed - his concerns. And without doing so,
it was unable to satisfy itself that Mr Fs complaint had been fairly dealt with by the law firm.
Nor was it able to reasonably provide Mr F with any assurances that this was the case.
Conclusion:
Im satisfied that what Aviva did wrong in this case has put Mr F to some distress and
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him, having been involved in a car accident and
suffered bodily injuries. Im proposing that Aviva pay him £150 compensation to reflect the
distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Mr Fs claim has effectively been on hold for almost a year because Aviva hasnt agreed to
appoint another law firm to represent him. And Im currently satisfied that what Aviva did
wrong in this case hasnt helped to restore Mr Fs faith in the law firm representing him.
Im aware that the policy only allows for another legal representative to be appointed if it
becomes necessary to issue legal proceedings or in the event of a conflict of interest  which
hasnt arisen here. But in all the circumstances of this case, Im proposing that the fair and
reasonable thing for Aviva to do now is to arrange for Mr Fs case to be reallocated to a
different suitably qualified law firm to represent him in his claim going forwards.
Responses to my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Aviva didnt reply. Mr F said he was happy to accept 
my provisional findings, but he felt that compensation in the sum of £300 would better reflect 
the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F would like me to direct Aviva to pay £300 compensation to him, rather than £150. But 
he hasnt given any further reasons for this. Ive carefully considered the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what Aviva did wrong in this case. And for the 
reasons already explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the sum of £150 fairly 
and reasonably compensates him for this. 
As neither party has provided any new evidence for me to consider, Im satisfied that theres 
no reason for me to reach a different outcome to my provisional decision. So, for this reason 
 and for the reasons explained in my provisional decision which Ive set out above  I 
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from Mr F accepting this final decision, I direct Aviva to:
(i) reallocate Mr Fs case to another legal representative, suitability qualified to
represent him in line with the remaining terms of the LEI section of the policy;
(ii) pay Mr F £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman