DRN-1822064
 
The complaint
Mrs Fs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax 
(the business). 
In short, the CMC says:
Mrs F shouldnt have been advised to take unnecessary risks with her money given 
her age and circumstances. 
She invested too much money.
Alternative investments  and more tax efficient alternatives  werent discussed. 
 
What happened
In December 2008, Mrs F was advised to invest £10,000 into a Guaranteed Investment Plan 
(GIP). 
It was recorded in the fact find that; she was 71 years of age, in good health and married; 
she was retired and had £36,375 held in a deposit account with a £300 monthly income; she 
only had £200 monthly expenses for entertainment purposes and her husband paid the 
household bills and that she had no debts or financial commitments. 
It was also recorded that she scored 16 on the Personal Risk Profile (PRP)  with a range of 
12-19  and therefore had a cautious medium attitude to risk. 
The GIP matured in March 2014 and Mrs F surrendered it a month later in April 2014 with a 
gain of £1,573. 
In May 2019, the CMC complained to the business about the suitability of the 
recommendation. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it says:
Its satisfied that the recommendation was suitable for Mrs F. 
She attended two meetings with the adviser  on 9 and 17 December 2008  and 
only provided instructions to proceed on 18 December 2008. 
Although Mrs F was 71 years of age at the time, this wasnt of itself a barrier to her 
investing. 
She chose not to have any family member present during the meeting although she 
said that shed discuss matters with her husband, which is what she appears to have 
done. 
She was advised to invest 28% of her savings which it doesnt consider to be 
unreasonable or unsuitable for a first-time investor.The GIP was retained for longer than its term of five years which suggests it was 
affordable and sustainable. 
The GIP also provided a guarantee of capital in the event of death  much like a 
deposit account. 
Although she couldnt access her funds  unlike a deposit account  this isnt 
relevant as she wanted to invest for five years in any case. 
 
The CMC disagreed with the business and referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The advice to invest £10,000 in the GIP was suitable. 
It met Mrs Fs objective for saving for the future, saving for a minimum term of five 
years, and it had the security of having her money returned if she died. 
The adviser took steps to ensure that the investment was right for Mrs F and 
shouldnt have turned her away just because she was 71 years of age. 
Mrs F had capacity to invest as she had no debts, and her husband covered all the 
household bills. And if her husband died before her, she would receive his pension  
via a guaranteed pension scheme  so her income was unlikely to change for the 
foreseeable future.   
Mrs F had two meetings with the adviser and requested a night to think things 
through with her family. She was therefore able to make an informed decision  in 
her own time  before deciding to proceed with the investment. 
Mrs F wasnt advised to invest too much of her money, she still had sufficient cash 
reserves after investing £10,000 for five years.
The adviser recommended Mrs F consider alternatives to cash-based deposit 
accounts and therefore alternatives were considered. 
The GIP returns were subject to capital gains tax (CGT).  In 2008 the tax-free 
threshold was £9,600 and in 2014 it was increased to £10,900. Therefore, it doesnt 
seem like Mrs F has been disadvantaged by comparison with other tax efficient 
systems. 
 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, it said:
Mrs F was a pensioner with no private pension and therefore couldve received 
interest on her cash-based deposit account without having to pay tax as she was a 
non-tax payer. 
The decision to invest in the GIP was illogical as she couldve made similar gains in 
three years in another product without any tax issues.
It agrees that investments can be suitable for a 71 year old with previous investment 
experience, sizable capital or private pension provision. 
As Mrs F was 71 years of age, a non-tax payer with no private pension it was 
important she didnt risk her money. She shouldve been advised to invest in a 
deposit account.
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what the CMC says, Im unable to safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable for 
Mrs F.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs F wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs F and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On balance Im satisfied that in December 2008 Mrs F was willing to take some risk with her 
money (for a period of five years), subject to it being returned upon her death, and that she 
was in a reasonable position to do so. 
Im satisfied that the recommendation met her objective of saving up some of her money for 
the future and that she was in a good position to invest around 28% of her available capital. 
Despite what the CMC says Im not persuaded that she invested too much money, I note 
she had access to a reasonable amount in cash reserves in case of emergency or 
unforeseeable circumstances in the future but also that she had no real plan for the money. 
I note Mrs F had no debts, had a modest net monthly income that she spent on enjoying 
herself, and her husband paid all the household bills. In the circumstances Im unable to say 
the recommendation was unaffordable or unsustainable. Im mindful that Mrs F maintained 
the investment to maturity and was able to do so without experiencing any financial difficulty. 
Despite what the CMC says Im unable to safely say that Mrs F was a very cautious 
investor in 2008. She may very well have been in the past, but this doesnt mean that she 
was at the point of sale, when she was in her early 70s, retired with no debts, and 
household bills being taken care of by her husband. She was probably in the best position, 
for the first time in her life, to invest and take a risk with her money. Im mindful that Mrs F 
was a first-time investor but that doesnt mean she probably didnt want to make the most of 
her circumstances and take a greater risk than she wouldve in the past. 
So, whilst I note Mrs F wasnt an experienced investor with a private pension and a larger 
capital, I dont think any of this this prevented her from investing and taking some risk with a 
portion of her money, when she was in a comfortable position to do so. And importantly 
shed been retired for some years and therefore used to her circumstances in retirement, as 
opposed to coming into retirement not knowing what the future holds.  
I note Mrs F didnt want a family member present during the two meetings with the adviser 
and she took another night to think things through with her husband before making an 
educated and informed decision to invest. Im unable to say that Mrs F didnt know what she 
was doing or was forced to decide without time to think things through. On the contrary, Im 
persuaded that she wanted to invest, took her time to think things over and decided to take 
some risk with a portion of her money. So in conclusion, I think she was in a reasonable position to invest and had the safety net 
that she wanted in case she passed away during the term of the investment or even if her 
husband had passed away the investment was unlikely to affect her income as shed be 
eligible to receive his pension income.   
I appreciate the points the CMC makes about her tax position and alternative investment 
products, but nevertheless I dont think this this means the recommendation was unsuitable.
I appreciate Mrs F will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman