DRN-2721993
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a request for a product 
switch for his buy to let mortgages. He says Barclays process for valuing properties isnt fair 
and its service was poor.
What happened
Mr A has buy to let mortgages with Barclays for two properties, which are flats in the same 
building. Mr A says apart from being on different floors the flats are identical. He doesnt 
think its right that they were given different values (of about £125,000 and £147,000) by a 
valuer acting on behalf of Barclays in mid-2020. Barclays didnt allow a re-valuation, even 
when Mr A offered to pay for one.
Due to the lower valuation, Mr A didnt meet loan to value (LTV) criteria for the interest rate 
product he wanted. He has to take a different product with a higher interest rate. He says 
Barclays process is unfair and this will cost him nearly £3,000 in extra interest. He asks that 
Barclays allows a re-valuation or offers the same product for both mortgages.
Barclays said its valuers stood by their valuation. It paid £100 as an apology for delays and 
poor customer service.  
Our investigator said the valuations were carried out by independent valuers. Barclays 
requested a review on Mr As behalf, but the valuer stood by their valuation. Barclays hadnt 
made an error. The investigator said it was fair for Barclays to pay compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the valuer made an error and this was costing him money. He 
said Barclays appointed the valuer and should put a process in place to resolve these 
issues.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays doesnt have expertise to value property. So it appoints an appropriately qualified 
person to value property on its behalf. Lenders ask for valuations to help with their lending 
decisions  whether and how much to lend and on what terms, including the interest rate. 
Generally, Id find it fair for a lender to rely on the expert opinion of a valuer. 
There might be circumstances where it wouldnt be reasonable for a lender to rely on a 
valuation  if it was the wrong property for instance or theres some other obvious error. 
I asked Barclays for copies of the valuations, to see if this helped to explain the different 
valuations. It says the reports werent saved on its system. It said it didnt have records of 
any conversations with the valuers about why the flats were given different valuations. It said 
that the valuations were carried out by a firm of surveyors.  
Barclays provided its policy for appealing valuations. This doesnt give Mr A the right to 
appeal the valuation. Barclays does have a process for resolving issues with valuations. 
However, Mr A didnt meet the criteria for an appeal to be considered. I cant require 
Barclays to change its policy, thats a matter for its commercial judgement. But I can 
consider whether Barclays treated Mr A fairly. 
Barclays says it asked the valuer (of the lower valued property) to review their decision. The 
valuer said they were happy with the valuation, regardless that a similar property had been 
given a higher valuation. 
I can understand Mr As frustration. I can also understand why he says a further valuation 
should be carried out, which hed be prepared to pay for. I dont think though that I can 
reasonably require Barclays to do this. 
I think its unsatisfactory that we dont have an explanation for why the two properties were 
given different valuations if, as Mr A says, they are nearly identical. But for me to require 
Barclays to re-value the property Id have to find that Barclays was unreasonable to rely on 
the valuation. I dont think I can fairly reach that conclusion. It doesnt necessarily mean 
theres an error if valuers reach different valuations in relation to similar properties: ultimately 
valuations are a matter of the valuers opinion. I dont know of course that the higher 
valuation of the other property was correct. 
While Mr A didnt meet criteria for an appeal to be considered, when he expressed concern 
Barclays asked the valuer about the discrepancy. I think this was fair. The valuer confirmed 
their valuation. I think Barclays is entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer.
Barclays did cause some delays and its service was poor. It paid £100 compensation for 
this. In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find that the 
compensation paid by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman