DRN-2052531
The complaint
Ms A complained about what happened when she opened a new fixed term savings account
with Metro Bank PLC, including that she wasnt able to access her account online for a
considerable time.
What happened
Ms A said she opened a new account with Metro bank, for a large amount of savings. But
she said she didnt have access to the account online for a long time. She told us Metro
promised to issue login details that she needed, but didnt send them. She said shed lost the
chance to close this account during the 14-day cooling off period. And she said this had
taken up a considerable amount of her time, on calls, waiting in for post, and travelling to
collect a letter. She also said it had caused her a great deal of distress.
Ms A wanted an apology, compensation calculated at 10% of her investment, and
reimbursement for her time.
Metro said Ms A had called on 8 July, to see if an old account was still open. Metro wasnt
able to clear Ms A through security on that call, so it couldnt discuss her account status with
her. It has apologised for the service she received on this call.
Metro said Ms A then opened a fixed term deposit account on 25 July, online. She paid in
£80,000 for 12 months at 2% interest. On 31 July she rang Metro and said she hadnt
received a 12-digit internet banking number. The call handler said this was because Ms A
already had a number, and read this to her. Ms A also asked for this to be sent by post.
On 2 August, Metro wrote to apologise for the concern Ms A had over the missing 12-digit
number, and offered £40 for that. Ms A rang again on 6 August, to say shed still not
received the code. Metro said it would send it again.
Metro wrote again on 19 August. It said it would send her 12-digit code again, and it would
send a new magic word so Ms A could re-establish her online banking. Metro offered £50
in compensation then. It has since increased this offer to £150, and it says that revised offer
remains open to Ms A.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought the welcome letter
that Metro issued when Ms A opened an account couldve been clearer, in terms of setting
out what she needed to access her account, but this was resolved at the end of July, when
the number Ms A needed was read to her. Ms A had forgotten her login details, but that
wasnt Metros fault, and the information was resent so she could re-register. Our
investigator said she couldnt consider a hypothetical situation that Ms A couldnt have
cancelled within 14 day cooling down period, as Ms A didnt want to do this. Our investigator
thought the offer Metro had made was fair.
Ms A didnt think our investigator had understood her complaint. She said it wasnt the case
that shed forgotten the old password. That password from her old account should not have
been carried forward, she said Metro had to issue a new one. She said she didnt have
access to her account, and didnt know where her money was. But our investigator didnt
change her mind, and Ms A still thought her complaint hadnt been understood. She said that
once we had understood that it was impossible for her to access her account for a month,
the award should naturally increase substantially. She wanted compensation for her time
and distress. And she said that any award should be pro rata to the investment shed made.
The case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Metro requires three items for a successful online login, a 12-digit code, a password, 
and an eight-digit security number.
Ms A said we had misunderstood her complaint, it was not the case that she forgot 
her secure login details. Its not clear from what she said to us, whether she meant 
that she could remember these details, or that she didnt think the old login details 
were relevant. So Ive listened to what she said on her calls with Metro.
Ms A told Metro on 8 July, when she rang to check if her old account was still open, 
that she had her old password and security number, but didnt have her 12-digit 
password.
Its perhaps not surprising Ms A didnt have this long number any more, as that old 
account had been closed for some time. She wanted to get this 12-digit number on 
this call, but couldnt clear security. I dont think Metro made a mistake when it said 
it wasnt able to share details of any accounts with Ms A on that call.
Ms A then opened a new fixed term savings account with Metro. I think it was 
unhelpful that when she did that, Metro sent her a letter that just said she should 
expect new login details. There was no mention that if such details had been 
issued, even for an account that was now closed, they wouldnt automatically be 
changed, or issued again.
However, I think that the position became clearer when Ms A spoke to Metro on 31 
July. The call handler said Ms A hadnt been sent a new 12-digit number, as she 
had an existing profile. And Ms A was reminded of her 12-digit code on this call.
I think that the call handlers explanation of this couldve been rather clearer. But I 
also think that Ms A had understood on this call that she could use her old account 
access details to view her account on this call. I think that because on the call she 
said that she wanted to add to her complaint then clarification that nowhere in 
your system does it say that when a customer opens up a new account two or more 
years later you use the information from two years ago without advising the client. I 
had no way of knowing how to access my account.
If Ms A had, as she told Metro earlier that month, still got her old security number 
and password, then I think she couldve accessed her new account from then. I 
dont think it was impossible for Ms A to access her account for over a month. But 
Ms A has repeatedly said that new details should be issued for her new account. 
Shes said its wrong, and unlawful, for Metro to keep old details once her old 
account was closed. On the next call Ms A had with Metro, she seemed to be 
expecting a new password and security number, and told the call handler that she 
didnt have any of these.I dont think it was a mistake by Metro to keep Ms As old login details, and allow 
her to access online banking using those. And I think much of the delay in Ms A 
accessing her account seems to have happened first because Ms A had forgotten 
the 12-digit code, and then because she doesnt appear to have used her old 
details to log in after the 31 July call.
I dont think thats Metros fault. So I dont think its responsible for the additional 
delay to Ms A being able to access her account caused by having to set up new 
login details for her.
Ms A said she didnt have a code, or a password, on her call on 6 August. I think 
that a new magic word that would allow her to generate new login details 
shouldve been ordered for her at this time, and it doesnt seem to have been 
ordered until some days later. I also think that it wouldve helped if the call handler 
gave Ms A her 12-digit login again on this call.
Ms A complained that she had waited in for a letter which contained her 12-digit 
login, but it wasnt received when she was expecting it. I appreciate there was a 
misunderstanding about when Ms A would receive this, but Ms A had already been 
told her 12-digit login over the phone. So I dont think that Metro is responsible if Ms 
A then chose to wait in to get this number in hard copy, or if she then preferred to 
collect her post rather than have it redelivered.
Ms A also said shed missed out on the opportunity to cancel her account within 
the first 14 days, because she couldnt access her account online. But I dont think 
that Ms A needed to be able to access her account online to do this. if she had 
wanted to close the account, she couldve contacted Metro by phone and asked it 
to do this. And Ms A hasnt said she did want to close the account.
I also think its relevant that the account Ms A opened was a fixed term account. 
So, although I accept it wouldve been frustrating not to be able to see the account 
online, I also note that this account type is designed for someone who doesnt want 
to access their money for quite some time. I think that does limit the impact that this 
delay in setting up new online login details would have on Ms A, because she 
wasnt deprived of access to money she was expecting to spend. I also note that 
Ms A had received confirmation from Metro that her account was open and the 
money was there. She was able to check her balance with Metro over the phone if 
she was concerned after this.
I do think that Metro made some mistakes in this case, but I dont think that Ms A 
needed to be given completely new account login details for her new account. I 
dont think the delay in being able to access her account online was all caused by 
Metro. I appreciate Ms A was concerned not to be able to access her account, but I 
dont think that there was otherwise a significant impact on Ms A, such as not 
being able to access money she needed to spend.
Ms A says that compensation should take account of the distress to her. Where I 
think that Metro has made a mistake, and that has caused or contributed to Ms As 
distress, Ive taken that into account. Ms A also said that any compensation should 
be pro rata to the investment shed made. That isnt our services approach to 
compensation, and a payment at the level Ms A suggests would not be consistent 
with other awards our service makes.Ive considered this case carefully and in full. That includes a number of points of 
detail not set out above. And I think that the offer that Metro has made in this case 
does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Ill leave it to Ms A to 
decide if she wants to accept that. But because Im not asking Metro to do any 
more than its already offered to do, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Metro said it had nothing to add. Ms A disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A said wed failed to understand the complaint, and ignored the facts, but she didnt 
engage with the details of my decision. She said there was no point. 
I understand that Ms A strongly disagrees with me, but Ive reviewed this complaint carefully, 
and I havent reached the same conclusions as her. In particular, I dont think that Metro has 
admitted negligence on every point. I think Metro had told Ms A where her funds were. And I 
dont think she was deprived of the opportunity to close her account.
I know Ms A will be disappointed, but I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman