DRN-3445367
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt with a 
claim on his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr W had motor insurance with LV. He says he accidentally put coolant into the oil reservoir 
of his car. He contacted LV for advice. Mr W decided to take the car to a nearby garage and 
have the engine drained. The cost of this was less than the excess on his policy so he didnt 
make a claim. 
Mr W called LV back a few days later to say there were problems with the engine and hed 
like to discuss making a claim. The call handler explained that LV would need to arrange for 
the car to be inspected. Mr W wanted his local garage to do this. The call handler said LV 
would need to see a cost estimate first, and sent the garage details of what to do. The call 
handler said LV would only pay for the diagnostic report if the damage was caused by the 
coolant going into the reservoir. If it was due to wear and tear, Mr W couldnt make a claim. 
The local garage sent in the estimate. Mr W called LV to see if it would authorise the tests. 
He also said the garage had told him the engine might need to be replaced. This call handler 
incorrectly advised Mr W that the car would be written off and LV would arrange to recover it. 
Mr W asked if the engine could be dismantled and the call handler agreed it could.
Shortly after this, the claim was reviewed by LVs in-house engineer who advised that there 
would need to be a full investigation before any decision could be made about the claim. LV 
advised Mr W the claim was under review and the car would need to be inspected.
LV arranged for the car and engine to be collected from the local garage and put in storage. 
The engine was inspected by an independent firm of consulting engineers. The report said:
Inspection of the available engine internal components revealed mechanical damage to the 
number one cylinder crankshaft big end journal. All other bearing journals and shells were in 
good condition with no obvious evidence of wear. I confirm having found no evidence of oil 
starvation or white metal bearing degradation usually present in cases of oil contamination.
Inspection of the number 1 cylinder bore and cylinder head revealed evidence of bore 
wash likely to be caused by excessive fuelling on this cylinder, excessive fuelling is also 
known to cause fuel knock (diesel knock), use of the vehicle with excessive fuelling over an 
extended time can cause both bore wash and damage to the con rod bearing due to engine 
knock.
There was no evidence of emulsified oil within the engine at the time of stripdown as would 
be apparent if coolant had been added to the engine.
Conclusion. During the course of my inspection it was noted that mechanical damage 
was confined to one cylinder in isolation. These symptoms are indicative of an isolated 
defect and are therefore not consistent with general lubrication failure as would be apparent 
had the vehicle have been driven with coolant within the oil. 
Based on the evidence currently available, I conclude that the engine is likely to have 
failed as a result of mechanical failure brought about by a latent fuel system defect. As 
mechanical failure is excluded under the terms of your policy conditions, it would appear that 
you have no liability in this matter.
LV also arranged for the engine to be inspected by an independent specialist engine 
company. This report said:
Cylinders 2, 3 & 4 are all displaying normal age/mileage related wear, however, image 3518 
identifies that cylinder 1 is extensively damaged with clear signs of bore wash caused by 
incorrect fuelling.
The evidence and images identify that the engine has suffered a localised failure to 
cylinder 1 and that the failure is as a result of over fuelling by cylinder 1 injector which has 
washed the cylinder bore. Over fuelling will also have caused a severe diesel knock and this 
will have resulted in the flattening of the upper connecting rod bearing shell and the 
inevitable failure as seen by the spun bearing shell adhered to cylinder 1 crank shaft 
journal
I can confirm that there is no evidence of any water or coolant within the oil system as was 
the reported failure and this would have been supported by the presence of emulsified oil 
and water within the oil system.
CONCLUSION.
We would conclude with the evidence at hand that the engine has suffered due to a failed 
injector which has over-fuelled with the resulting damage to number 1 cylinder bore and 
corresponding connecting rod bearing and crank shaft journal.
Mr W wasnt happy with the independent reports, so LVs senior in-house engineer reviewed 
them and said:
I have reviewed the claim and read theengineer report and noted the contents.
The claim is that water was poured into the engines oil and this has subsequently damaged 
the engine. If the engine had been damaged by this action I would have expected to see on 
the engineers report that damage has occurred to all bores as the water/oil mixture is 
pumped around the entire engine as it runs. In this instance the inspecting engineer has 
noted the damage is limited to no 1 cylinder for this to occur I agree the reason would be 
over fuelling into that bore, washing the lubricate away allowing overheating and the 
excessive fuel into the bore would bypass the piston rings run down the con-rod affecting the 
big end bearing creating a secondary area of damage. This damage would be created over a 
period of time depending on the amount of excessive fuel being spayed into the bore by the 
injector.
I would agree that the damage is due to a faulty injector and therefore 'Wear & Tear' not 
covered under the policy of motor insurance.
So LV told Mr W the fault wasnt an insurable event.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and complained to LV. LV stood by its decision on the claim. 
However LV accepted that Mr W had received poor service as the call handler wrongly told 
him he could make a claim and also that LV would pay for the diagnostic reports. LV paid Mr W £250 in recognition of this, plus the cost of the oil change and diagnostic tests and agreed 
to waive the costs of returning Mr Ws car to him or to his chosen garage. LV also offered Mr 
W £1500, the cost estimated by his local garage to refit the engine plus costs to recover the 
car. Mr W then sold the car to an independent salvage company.
Mr W was unhappy with the way LV dealt with things, so he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint, saying it was reasonable for LV to rely on the 
experts when deciding Mr Ws claim. The investigator acknowledged that LV had got some 
things wrong, but concluded it had done enough to compensate Mr W for this.
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators findings, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr W wants LV to put him back in the position he would have been in if the claim had been 
successful and the car written off. He also wants compensation for his stress, for being 
accused of fraud by LV and for having to pay two car loans while things were sorted out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Im not an engineer. Its not my role to decide what caused the problems with Mr Ws car. My 
role is to decide whether LV dealt with his claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
Mr Ws insurance documents said:
What is not insured?
wear and tear.
Wear and tear was defined as unavoidable damage caused by general use over time.
The local garage where Mr W took the car provided the following information:
you brought your [car] to us saying that you had put coolant in the oil. We changed the oil 
and filter and [we] did see coolant in the drained oil at that time. You obviously did not ask us 
to save the oil. The car ran ok on leaving the garage that day.
you came back to the garage with the engine making a loud noise. [We] advised that it 
should be turned off immediately as it sounded like a failure of a big end bearing. It was too 
noisy to carry out any checks for oil pressure. We advised that to find out what damage had 
occured we would have to take the sump off and remove the bearing caps. To take the sump 
off the engine involved firstly removing the engine from the car. You agreed to this work 
going ahead and we were to do the minimum possible to assess the damage.
Once the sump was off we removed number one bearing cap found the bearing shell and 
crank journal to be damaged. We did not remove other bearing caps or strip the engine any 
further as it was clear it would need to be rebuilt or replaced so we spent some time 
investigating your options.
[we have] read the engineers report and cannot really comment on some of the findings as 
[we] did not completely strip the engine. The explanation of fuel knock is plausible however 
the fact that the engine had had coolant in the oil and had failed only a few miles later cannot 
be ignored. The contaminated oil had already been drained out and replaced so there may have been less evidence of emulsified oil in the engine. Also, it takes a while for oil to 
emulsify and the car had not been run for many miles between the oil change and failure, 
again explaining the lack of emulsified oil.
We cannot comment on the injectors, we have not replaced them previously and did not 
make a point of inspecting them when the engine was with us.
Mr W says that when the experts examined the engine, some parts were missing. However 
on balance I dont think it would have made a difference if they were present. Mr W also 
disputes the experts opinions that the fuel injectors had recently been replaced. But again 
from looking at the experts conclusions I dont think it would have made any difference to 
the outcome of the claim either way. In particular I note that all three engineers say that if the 
problem had been caused by coolant in the oil they would have expected to see damage to 
all four cylinders not just one.
On balance I think it was fair and reasonable for LV to have relied on the reports of two 
independent experts and its own senior engineer who all came to the same conclusion. I 
appreciate that Mr W says his garage has provided a different view, but it didnt examine all 
of the engine and doesnt come to any firm opinion as to how the problem was caused.
Mr W also feels LV accused him of fraud, but I think was reasonable for LV to fully 
investigate the cause of the problems with the car. And the reason the claim wasnt paid was 
because of the conclusions in the experts reports.
Mr W also complains that he had to pay two loans at the same time, for the car that was off 
the road and a replacement car he bought because he understood the old car would be 
written off. However LV has confirmed that it had already told Mr W the claim was being 
reviewed about a week before he called to change his policy to the new car.
I can see that Mr W was misadvised in one call with LV. However I think that LV has done 
enough to compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. So I wont be asking Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman