DRN-3545496
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund a payment made from her 
account without her authority.
What happened
Ms O says that on 29 September 2020 she received a text message at 18.30 saying a new 
payee had been set up and asking her to call if she hadnt done this. Ms O didnt see the 
message straight away but called as soon as she saw the text at 20.34. At this stage Ms O 
reported that she hadnt set up a new payee or made a faster payment of £2,770 from her 
account. Ms O is unhappy that Lloyds hasnt refunded the payment and would like Lloyds to 
pay compensation as her physical and mental health have suffered.
Lloyds say that Ms O authorised the payment and that it was made using a device registered 
to Ms O and that she confirms nobody else had access to. It has provided a chronology of 
events as follows:
26 September 2020  a new mobile was registered on Ms Os online banking. The number 
was the same number that had been associated with Ms O for some time. Lloyds sent an 
automated call to Ms Os registered mobile number about the new device which provided a 
four-digit number. This four-digit number was provided to Lloyds to register the new device. 
Fingerprint biometrics were also set up that day. 
28 September 2020
18.30  a faster payment of £2,770 was made via online banking to a new payee. The 
payment was authorised using fingerprint biometrics and a text message was sent to Ms O 
asking her to call if she hadnt set up a new payee. 
18.44  transfer from Ms Os savings account to her current account using fingerprint 
biometrics. 
21.17  call from Ms O to dispute the transaction for £2,770 and to say she didnt set up a 
new payee. By this time the payment had been made. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Ms Os complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
concluded that Ms O authorised the payment she is disputing. In summary, the investigator 
said this because:
- There was no evidence of remote or third-party access to Ms Os account and Ms O 
confirmed nobody else had access to it.
- The transaction was made from a registered device Ms O previously made genuine 
transactions from, using Ms Os device and log in details and fingerprint biometrics. 
- Ms O logged into her account and transferred funds between accounts after the 
disputed transaction had been made but didnt report it at that stage. 
- Ms O said she hadnt received any unusual emails or calls before the disputed 
transaction. 
Ms O didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. In summary, she said,
- She didnt make the payment. She believes her account was compromised and a 
third-party set up a new registered device on 26 September 2021. 
- She doesnt use fingerprint biometrics so the payment cant have been made by her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Broadly speaking Ms O is 
responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them herself or 
allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments except in 
more limited circumstances. Im satisfied from the evidence that payment was properly 
authenticated. 
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the investigator that the disputed payment was 
authorised by Ms O and so she is liable for it. I say this because:
- The transaction was made from a mobile phone registered to Miss O with a number 
that had been associated with Miss O for some time. 
- The device the payment was made from was registered with Lloyds a few days 
before the disputed transaction (on 26 September 2020). When the device was 
registered an automated call was sent to Ms Os registered number about the new 
device being registered. To complete the new device set-up Ms O was required to 
enter a four-digit code. In the call when she reported the disputed payment Ms O 
checked her mobile phone and confirmed that she had received the automated call 
from Lloyds. She also seemed to suggest that she entered the four-digit code without 
thinking. Ive seen evidence that the call was made to Ms Os device, which she says 
nobody else had access to as she was alone at the time of the automated call, and 
that the code was provided to Lloyds. In the circumstances, I consider it to be more 
likely than not that Ms O registered the new device. 
- In the call when Ms O reported the disputed transaction, she was asked the make of 
her phone. The make she gave matched the new device that was registered on 26 
September 2020.
- At the same time the new device was registered fingerprint, biometrics were set up to 
log into the account. These biometrics were used when the disputed payment was 
made. I cant see how it was possible for a third party to register biometrics on Ms 
Os mobile without having access to it.  
- Ms O says she wasnt asked to move funds by a third party. She also confirmed that 
she didnt receive any links or malicious emails so didnt click a link or downloaded 
software inadvertently to give a fraudster access to her personal information. And 
there is no evidence of third-party access to her account. 
- Ms O has been clear that nobody else had access to her mobile phone and she didnt share any security details. Given what Ive said above and this fact, I find it 
hard to see how the disputed transaction could have been made by a third party 
without her authorisation.  
Overall, I cant see how an unknown third party couldve accessed Ms Os account and 
made the payment without her authorisation or permission. So I think its most likely that Ms 
O made the payment or authorised someone else to make it. In the circumstances, I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to refund Ms O.
I also dont think the payment of £2,770 was so unusual and out of character that Lloyds 
should have been concerned that Ms O might be at risk of financial harm. So I dont consider 
Lloyds needed to take any additional steps before processing the payment. Ms O asked why 
she wasnt sent a one-time passcode for the £2,770 payment. Lloyds dont send such a 
passcode for every transaction and didnt send one on this occasion because it didnt 
consider the transaction to be suspicious, which I think was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman