DRN-3988907
The complaint
Ms B complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aquacard, wont refund transactions on her 
credit card that she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In February 2022, Ms B contacted NewDay and disputed all the transactions on her credit 
card between 4 November 2021 and 2 February 2022. She said she didnt make any of 
them. Ms B told NewDay that shed been away from her home during that time and had left 
her card at home. She suspected that someone known to her, a friend whod been looking 
after her home while she was away and knew her cards PIN, made the disputed 
transactions.
NewDay investigated Ms Bs claim and declined to refund her alleged loss  it considered 
that shed likely authorised the disputed transactions.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint as they werent satisfied that Ms B had 
consented to the transactions. NewDay disagreed and provided additional information 
highlighting discrepancies in Ms Bs testimony. The investigator reconsidered the matter and 
agreed there were contradictions in what Ms B had told NewDay, the police, and our service 
about what had happened. Following another review, they werent persuaded Ms B had 
substantiated her loss and concluded that it wouldnt be fair to hold NewDay responsible for 
it. 
The case was then passed to me to decide as Ms B didnt agree with the investigators 
revised findings. I wrote to Ms B informally and explained that while she may have been 
reluctant in sharing information as a friend was involved, I required further information  
including a clear list of transactions in dispute  to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
When Ms B responded, it transpired that shed since recognised making several 
transactions. The loss therefore came down from over £1,100 to around £400. 
I passed the case back to the investigator for another review, taking into account the 
additional information and further clarification wed received from Ms B. Their outcome 
remained unchanged. As Ms B doesnt agree, its appropriate to move the case to the 
decision stage.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that although Ive only given an overview of what happened, 
Ive read and considered everything weve been provided in its entirety.
The starting position is that a customer is liable for authorised transactions and a payment 
service provider (PSP) is liable if theyre unauthorised. Pursuant to the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), authorisation depends on whether the transactions were 
authenticated correctly and whether the customer consented to them.
In this case, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Ms Bs security credentials 
(associated with her card) were used to make the transactions. Therefore, on balance, Im 
satisfied that the transactions were authenticated correctly. What seems to be in dispute 
here is whether Ms B consented to them. Ms B says the third party knew her PIN as she had 
allowed them to take out money for her in the past. But her card and security credentials 
were used without her consent during the relevant period.
To decide whether Ms B, or someone acting with her authority, made the transactions, Ive 
carefully considered what shes told us about what happened. And Ive considered that in 
conjunction with a review of the available evidence.
Ms B hasnt been upfront with our service about which transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. It wasnt until I questioned some of the disputed transactions to 
merchants whom shed previously paid that she said she recognised making them. She 
explained shed added her card on to her phone wallet. At that point, I gave Ms B another 
opportunity to review her credit card statements for the period in question and highlight the 
disputed transactions. She said she didnt recognise any other payments besides the ones 
Id highlighted. Yet, subsequently, when the investigator questioned some other 
transactions, Ms B told us that she recognised further transactions. 
I find it odd that at first Ms B claimed she didnt make any of the transactions, only to later 
change her position when challenged by this service about certain transactions. And 
although shes now recognised making payments to several merchants (the loss is now 
nearly a third of the original claim), as the investigator has highlighted, some of the 
payments still in dispute are to merchants that Ms B has previously paid  including 
subscription services. 
 
While reviewing the credit card statements, I can see payments were made to Ms Bs credit 
card during the relevant period which she says she didnt make. There were eight payments 
in total, adding up to just under £600. Although these transactions were credits rather than 
payments from her credit card, I find it unusual that a third party would reduce the 
outstanding balance on Ms Bs credit card account when they had no contractual liability for 
this. 
Also, I can see that in November 2021 a money transfer for £50 was requested from Ms Bs 
credit card to a current account which weve established belonged to Ms B (the accounts 
since been closed). She disputes making this transaction. NewDay got in touch with Ms Bs 
former current account provider, and it confirmed that no fraud was reported. I find it strange 
that a third party would send money to an account they dont have access to. Its stranger 
still that the funds were transferred to an account only Ms B had access to. This isnt typical 
of fraudulent behaviour. 
Whats more, the audit log shows there were frequent log-ons into Ms Bs account through 
the NewDay mobile app during the period in question. And that is how the money transfer 
was requested. No allegation has been made about unauthorised access to Ms Bs account 
via online banking or mobile banking app. And Ms B hasnt disputed the investigators finding 
in their most recent view that she logged on to her app during the relevant period.
Overall, I cant say for sure what happened. But I only have to reach a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities, i.e., what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Ive 
weighed up everything and given the discrepancies and a lack of plausible explanation, 
I dont consider it fair to tell NewDay to reimburse the transactions that are still in dispute. Given all the evidence Ive set out above, it seems more likely these were made by Ms B or 
someone with her authority. 
I recognise that Ms B will likely be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant safely 
conclude that NewDay has been unreasonable in holding her liable. Because of this, I wont 
be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman