DRN-3974005
The complaint
Mr T complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost, after he fell victim to an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties and has been laid out in 
detail by our Investigator, so I wont repeat it all here, But briefly, and based on the 
submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In February 2022, Mr T was contacted by somebody claiming to be from HMRC who told him 
that he had an outstanding tax bill. The caller persuaded Mr T to send nine payments, 
totalling £7,099, in order to avoid potential prosecution and imprisonment. But unknown to 
Mr T at the time, he was speaking to a fraudster and had sent money to accounts the 
fraudsters controlled.
A breakdown of the payments Mr T sent from his Revolut account is detailed below;
26 February 2022 @ 11:03 £1,000
26 February 2022 @ 11:13 £800
26 February 2022 @ 11:21 £500
26 February 2022 @ 11:57 £700
26 February 2022 @ 11:58 £300
26 February 2022 @ 12:11    £900
26 February 2022 @ 13:16 £1,000
26 February 2022 @ 14:11 £1,000
26 February 2022 @ 14:17 £899
*To fund the payments Mr T used some of his own funds, but also funds that hed borrowed 
from family and friends.
Mr T soon realised hed been scammed and raised the matter with Revolut, just over an hour 
after the last payment had been made. Revolut looked into things and issued its final 
response on 16 March 2022. In summary it said it was sorry that these events had happened 
to Mr T, but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had provided warnings to Mr T before hed 
made the payments. It added that it had tried to recover the money lost from the beneficiary 
banks (the banks to which the payments were made), but unfortunately it wasnt able to 
recover any money.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr T brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think Revoluts warnings had gone far enough. He considered that at the 
point Mr T was making the sixth payment, for £900, there was enough going on that Revolut 
ought to have contacted Mr T before allowing the payments to be progressed.
But it was our Investigators view that, even if Revolut had intervened further, this wouldnt 
have made a difference. He explained this was because he thought Mr T truly believed he 
was in the midst of a court case and under investigation by HMRC. Given this and 
considering the fraudsters had told Mr T not to discuss the events with anybody, our 
Investigator thought it unlikely he would have told Revolut that the payments were for 
outstanding tax arrears. Our Investigator added that he thought this was supported by 
messages Mr T had shared, that hed exchanged with his father, where he didnt reveal the 
nature of what was going on to his father, despite his father raising concerns.
As Mr T didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr T was the victim of a scam and I can understand why he wants to do all 
he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct Revolut to refund Mr Ts losses if it 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
Where Mr T authorised the transactions, it means that Revolut was obliged to follow his 
instructions. But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be 
appropriate for Revolut, to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing 
a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
For example, if a customer made a payment request for an amount that was out of character 
given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask questions about 
the intended transaction before processing it and provide a suitable warning.
Its not for this service to dictate how Revolut configures its fraud protection systems. It does 
have a difficult balance to strike in how it does this to enable it to detect unusual activity or 
activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a delicate 
balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not 
be possible or reasonable to expect a payment provider to check each one. And, in 
situations where Revolut do intervene, I would expect that intervention to be proportionate to 
the circumstances of the payment.
Our Investigator concluded Revolut should have intervened at the point Mr T was making his 
sixth payment. I agree with our Investigator, in that Revolut could have intervened more than 
it did and possibly sooner.
But this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to say that Revolut should refund Mr T the  
money he lost. The crux of this complaint centres on whether any intervention would have 
made a difference, so I also need to be persuaded that sufficient intervention would have 
made a  difference and prevented the payments from being made. Of course, I cant know 
for sure  what would have happened had Revolut probed Mr T further about these payments. 
So, I  have to base my findings on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more 
likely  than not to have happened, taking into account what I know. Having thought carefully 
about  this, sadly I dont think any further intervention at this point is more likely than not to 
have made a difference.
This was a particularly cruel and sophisticated scam, where the fraudsters were able to 
convince Mr T that he was genuinely taking part in court proceedings and that he was at risk 
of prosecution and imprisonment. The fraudsters had gained access to Mr Ts phone, by remote access software and given names that matched up with genuine civil service 
workers. I can also understand how things would have seemed all the more plausible to     
Mr T, given he had genuinely been communicating with HMRC about his tax affairs just days 
before.
The fraudsters applied pressure on Mr T, which included instructing him not to discuss 
events with anybody  going as far as to tell him what he could and couldnt say to his family 
and friends (from whom he was borrowing money to fund the payments he went on to 
make). Mr T has shared details of messages he exchanged with his father. I think it is clear 
from these that Mr T is following the fraudsters instructions, in not divulging details about 
what he is being asked to do. On a number of occasions Mr T explains to his father that he 
cannot call him and is not able to tell him why he needs to borrow money.
When considering the circumstances of this complaint, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not, that even if Revolut had probed further I dont think Mr T would likely have divulged 
what the real purpose of the payments were. And given Mr T had moved passed previous 
warnings Revolut had given and that Mr T was convinced he was dealing with HMRC and 
court officials, Im not persuaded any proportionate warning Revolut could reasonably have 
given at this point would likely have prevented Mr T from going ahead with the payments.
Finally, Ive considered whether Revolut did all it could to try and recover the money Mr T 
had lost from the beneficiary banks, once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence 
Ive seen, Revolut did contact the beneficiary banks when he raised the matter, but 
unfortunately no funds remained. So I think Revolut has done what could reasonably have 
been expected of it to try to recover the money.
Its very unfortunate Mr T has lost this money in this way, to what was a callous scam and I 
understand the whole experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of 
sympathy for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say 
Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr T from losing his money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman