DRN-3836086
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFUM) unfairly declined its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr L has conducted most of the correspondence and he is also represented in this complaint 
but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mr L.
 
What happened
Mr L held a commercial insurance policy with NFUM which included cover for business 
interruption. Mr L claimed on the policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. 
NFUM turned down Mr Ls claim as it said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They
added that while the policy potentially covered a list of specified human diseases, Covid-19 
wasnt one of the diseases covered so it said the policy didnt provide cover in the 
circumstances. 
NFUM did however acknowledge that Mr L had not been offered Cancellation of Advance 
Bookings cover when the policy was taken out. NFUM agreed to backdate that cover to the 
start of the policy and, upon payment of the relevant premium, would consider a claim under 
that cover. NFUM says the maximum cover for this it can offer is £15,000. I understand it 
has paid the policy limit.
Unhappy with NFUMs response, Mr L brought its complaint to us. Initially it was out of time 
as it was referred to us more than six months after NFUMs final response letter to his 
complaint, which was dated 28 March 2020. But NFUM consented to us dealing with it out of 
time. 
In the meantime, NFUM reviewed the claim following the Supreme Courts judgment in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. NFUM did not think the judgment in the test 
case impacted the claim. 
Mr L thought its claim should be covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage
Mr L said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage and that the
definition of damage is wide enough to cover a loss of use, even where there hasnt been 
physical damage. Mr L has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance 
Company (2020) and Tektrol v Hanover [2005] EWCA Civ 845 in support of why his claim 
should be paid. He also says that no relevant exclusions for Covid-19 apply, so the claim 
should be covered under this section of cover. 
Prevention of access
Mr L said it was forced to operate a reduced business due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and 
use of his premises had been hindered by the Government restrictions. Hindrance or 
prevention of access does not have to be physical and does not require it to be impossible to 
access the premises. The restriction of ability for customers to attend the premises is 
enough to trigger cover under this section. Mr L says the Supreme Court judgment test case 
supports this. 
Disease
Mr L said the list of diseases set out in this extension of the policy arent an exhaustive list 
and theres nothing in the policy to say that new diseases cant be added or are excluded.   
Mr L said the list of diseases are very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases 
and therefore its reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. Mr L said that if the 
policy intended to exclude any diseases not on the list, it should clearly state that. Mr L also 
referred to a case in Germany Case No. 11 O66/20 in support.  In addition, NFUM has 
specifically excluded Covid-19 in the renewed policy, which means it must have thought it 
was covered under the previous wording. 
Mr L also says it is more likely than not that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises, given the prevalence of infection in the vicinity at the time. 
 
Closure as a result of Action of Competent Authority
Mr L said it was required to close due to the Governments guidance on social distancing 
and therefore he had experienced a loss of use of the premises. Mr L said the closing of the 
premises was due to health and sanitation issues as it wasnt safe for people in be in close 
proximity to each other.
Public Emergency
Mr L said the claim should also be covered under this section of cover, which provides for 
closure of the premises due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property within the 
vicinity of the premises, which hinders or prevents the use of, or access to, the premises. 
While this section excludes human disease he says this is only applicable if there has 
resulting from disease having already occurred at the premises.  
Other factors
There is no pandemic or other relevant exclusion in the policy. He had a reasonable 
expectation that losses flowing from business interruption in this type of event would be 
covered.  Mr L also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by 
the Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its
policy would provide cover in these circumstances.
NFUM has a duty to ensure that customers understand the limitations of any policy 
And we should consider the imbalance of power between the insurer and Mr L.  
Our initial assessment 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
she thought NFUM had acted fairly and reasonably in finding that the policy didnt provide 
cover. 
Mr L does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mr L has also raised a complaint about the way the policy was sold to him (not just in relation 
to the cancellation of bookings cover). This will be addressed separately and this decision 
will only address the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had such a  
significant impact on Mr Ls business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFUM has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ls claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Mr Ls policy provides cover:
We will pay for the loss of INCOME occurring during the INDEMNITY PERIOD 
arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising from 
an INSURED PERIL during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE. 
The policy defines damage as Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Mr Ls business
interruption would need to be as a result of accidental loss, destruction or damage to
buildings or property used by Mr L at its premises. I dont think this would provide cover for 
Mr Ls claim, because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
Mr L has referred to the cases of Tektrol v Hanover [2005] EWCA Civ 84 and which it says 
support that loss and damage do not have to be physical. In the Tektrol case, it was 
observed that the word loss might have different meanings depending on the context. I am 
not persuaded this means that Mr Ls business premises  sustained accidental loss or 
damage as a result of the Governments restrictions.  
Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Mr Ls claim, including 
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British 
Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development 
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348. Having done so, I think that, for damage to have occurred, 
there would need to be a physical change or altered state to Mr Ls property, which made it 
less valuable. 
Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was 
required to remove the cause of potential damage.
Its possible that Covid-19 was present in Mr Ls premises. However, the Governments 
guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a 
specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of Covid-19 on Mr Ls property. And 
the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically amount to damage. So, this 
section of the policy doesnt provide cover.
Prevention / Denial of access The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The extensions for
prevention/denial of access require the losses to be due to damage to property or premises. 
As I dont think Covid-19 caused damage to premises or property for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think these extensions cover Mr Ls claim.
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference due to:
the occurrence of any of the following diseases at the premises
The policy goes on to set out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. As Covid-19
isnt in that list, its not covered by the policy. When reaching this finding Im mindful that
Covid-19 wasnt something NFUM might have known about when the policy was drafted.
However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable diseases. While I accept
that the list in Mr Ls policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable diseases, 
many other notifiable diseases arent included. Mr Ls policy does not say that it covers 
notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which are covered by the 
policy.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. The policy says that it covers the
followingdiseases which I think indicates that it is a closed list. I dont think this extension
can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases and therefore this doesnt cover Mr Ls claim.
I have also considered the reference to a German case on this point, but that case isnt 
applicable to English law and doesnt in any event change this Services approach to 
specified illness clauses like the one in this complaint.
Public emergency 
This section of cover states: 
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring in 
the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the 
PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
I do not agree with Mr L that the exclusion of infectious or contagious diseases only applies if 
there has been an occurrence of such disease at the premises. That is not what the above 
term says. It seems clear to me that this term specifically excludes any public emergency 
resulting from infectious disease and so would not provide cover in this instance. 
Closure as a result of Action of Competent Authority
This extension covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
closure or restriction in use of the PREMISES by a competent local authority due to 
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements or discovery of vermin and pests 
at the PREMISES..Mr L said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained and
therefore resulted in a de facto closure due to health and sanitation issues. Im not going to
make a finding on whether Mr L was required to close because even if he was, I dont think 
the inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in Mr Ls sanitary
arrangements.
I think a defect would mean some deficiency or fault and Im not persuaded that the normal 
operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Mr Ls 
premises which led to its closure.
In addition, the interruption to Mr Ls business was a result of the Governments response to 
the pandemic, which is a national authority. This section of cover requires any closure or 
restriction in use to be the result of action by a local authority. 
For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Mr Ls claim.
Other factors
Although Mr L might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Mr Ls policy provides 
cover for its claim. I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be 
considered ambiguous and I dont think it matters that Covid-19 or pandemics arent 
excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that provides cover
Mr L also says NFUM had a duty to ensure it understood the terms and limitations of the 
policy before taking it out. I am satisfied that the documents are sufficiently clear and can be 
relied on in response to this claim. However, whether it fulfilled all its obligations to Mr L at 
the time of the sale will need to be considered separately. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to pay its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman