DRN-3087144
The complaint
Mr Fs complained that the Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd (CCB) invoiced him 
following a successful claim to recover payment protection insurance (PPI) from a lender  
even though hed cancelled his agreement with CCB within the cooling off period.
What happened
The deadline to claim a refund of PPI payments was 29 August 2019.  A few days before 
this, Mr F signed a letter of authority allowing CCB to contact lenders on his behalf.  But, on 
speaking to colleagues, Mr F found out he could make a claim without using a claims 
management company like CCB.  So, a couple of days after signing up, Mr F contacted CCB 
by phone to cancel the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period.
Several months later, Mr F received a refund from a lender Ill call L.  And he received an 
invoice dated 15 February 2020 from CCB claiming a fee of £291.46 for recovering this 
refund.
CCB chased Mr F for payment of their invoice, despite him telling CCB hed cancelled his 
agreement with them just a couple of days after signing it.  So Mr F complained.
CCB acknowledged his complaint.  But Mr F says they never responded to it.  So he brought 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered it and contacted CCB for their business file, comments and any 
other information they wanted to provide.  CCB didnt respond.  So our investigator came to 
his view based on the information provided by Mr F.  
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, the investigator concluded that Mr F had 
cancelled the agreement as hed said.  So CCB didnt have authority to charge Mr F a 
success fee and their invoice should be cancelled.  And the investigator said CCB should 
pay Mr F £50 for the upset theyd caused him by issuing him an invoice without authority.
CCB didnt respond to the investigators view.  Mr F commented that he thought £50 was too 
little compensation for what had happened.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint.  But I dont think CCB should pay more 
compensation than our investigator thought was fair.  Ill explain why.
Because CCB didnt respond to the investigators view, Ive also had to rely on what Mr F 
has sent us to make my decision.  Ive been given no reason to doubt what hes told us.
So I accept Mr F cancelled his agreement with CCB within the cooling off period.  And I 
agree with our investigator that means CCB didnt have authority to charge him for any work 
they did.
Putting things right
On the basis they had no authority to charge Mr F, Im satisfied its fair they cancel their 
invoice dated 15 February 2020.
Ive thought carefully about whether CCB should also pay Mr F compensation for invoicing 
him.  I accept Mr F thought hed cancelled his agreement with CCB.  So he wouldnt have 
expected to receive an invoice from them.  And that would have concerned him.  
The invoice he received was for obtaining a refund from L.  Ive seen copies of 
correspondence Mr F received directly from L.  That makes it clear the claim Mr F made 
directly to L was rejected as the PPI deadline had passed.  And Mr F hadnt shown L any 
exceptional circumstances which meant L should consider the claim out of time.
But Mr F did receive a refund from L.  And L confirmed theyd corresponded with CCB about 
a claim.  So, while I understand Mr F cancelled his authority for CCB to act, he has benefited 
from the fact they didnt do as he wanted.
When deciding the level of compensation, I have to consider the impact on a complainant of 
what has happened.  This case is unusual, because theres been a positive impact 
(receiving a refund) as well as a negative (being chased for payment of an invoice).  Ive 
balanced those two and, having done that, I agree with our investigator that £50 
compensation is fair in this case.  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint about Consumer 
Compensation Bureau Ltd and deciding they should:
cancel their invoice dated 15 February 2020 for £291.46; and
pay Mr F £50 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman