DRN-4167624
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint concerns ReAssure Limiteds mis-sale of his Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. Mr W is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill 
refer only to Mr W. 
What happened
Mr W was a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS). In around 1990, Mr W took 
out an FSAVC plan with ReAssure in order to top up his pension benefits. In 2009, Mr W 
retired, taking the FSAVC plan benefits as an annuity. 
In 2021, Mr W complained to ReAssure that its 1990 advice was unsuitable as it should have 
advised him to buy added years in the TPS, not an FSAVC plan. ReAssure agreed and it 
acknowledged that any extra contributions after the maximum number of added years had 
been purchased would have been directed to the in-house AVC arrangement, rather than an 
FSAVC, as this had lower charges. It said it would put things right by paying Mr W a lump 
sum of £4,749.20 for the difference in charges between his FSAVC plan and in-house AVC, 
plus it offered an annuity of £540.34 per annum for the lost added years he should have had 
but didnt. 
Mr W told ReAssure he wanted all the redress to be paid as a lump sum, and ReAssures 
proposal wasnt in line with the regulators FG17/9 guidance or with decisions made by either 
our Service or ReAssure in other cases. 
ReAssure said its proposed redress depended on the particular circumstances of each case 
and, here, reflected Mr Ws choice to buy an annuity when he retired. It thought this was in 
line with our Services approach and while it had chosen to use the FG17/9 redress 
calculation method, it didnt have to pay the redress as a lump sum. ReAssure invited Mr W 
to provide evidence that a new annuity would cause him tax or other disadvantages.
Mr W came to our Service. He thought ReAssure had offered him an annuity just to boost its 
own business, and that the pension freedoms introduced after hed retired should apply.
Our Investigator said the FG17/9 guidance was intended for defined benefits transfer 
redress and while businesses could use it to calculate FSAVC redress, they didnt have to. 
He thought ReAssures proposed redress put Mr W into the position he should have been in 
if not for its unsuitable advice in 1990, and he hadnt seen any evidence that ReAssure 
paying part of the redress as an annuity would be detrimental to Mr W. 
Mr W disagreed, and thought it was unfair for ReAssure to only follow FG17/9 so far. He 
again highlighted other cases where ReAssure simply paid lump sums, and said the 
regulator required businesses to consider how our Service has taken account of the 
particular circumstances when determining similar complaints. Mr W said that if ReAssures 
1990 advice had been suitable, he wouldnt have had any contact with ReAssure when he 
retired. And the TPS was linked to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) whereas the FSAVC 
annuity was linked to the Retail Price Index (RPI), so a new annuity could disadvantage him 
further. 
Our Investigator didnt change their view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to be good industry practice. This 
includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). 
Id like to firstly acknowledge that Mr W has sought to support his complaint by pointing to a 
decision made by another Ombudsman in a separate complaint, in what Mr W sees to be 
similar circumstances. But our Service considers the particular circumstances of each 
individual complaint. So, what Ive considered here is the particular circumstances of Mr Ws 
complaint, and all the evidence and comments provided to me about that. 
Its not disputed that ReAssures 1990 advice to buy an FSAVC plan instead of added years 
was unsuitable for Mr W, so I dont need to consider that further. And Mr W isnt disputing 
ReAssures calculation of his loss, so I dont need to consider that either. Instead, whats 
disputed here is whether its fair and reasonable for ReAssure to offer an annuity as part of 
the redress for its unsuitable advice in 1990.
The regulators FG17/9 guidance sets out how businesses should calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefits pension transfers, but says businesses can also choose to use it 
for FSAVC complaints, as ReAssure has done here. So as a starting point, ReAssure isnt 
obliged to use FG17/9 in Mr Ws case. 
That said, ReAssure did choose to use FG17/9 to calculate redress for the unsuitable 
FSAVC advice it gave Mr W in 1990. And Mr W thinks its therefore unfair for ReAssure to 
depart from FG17/9 when it comes to the method of redress. Regarding that, FG17/9 says, 
If it is not possible to pay the redress amount into the customers personal pension by 
augmentation, the redress should be paid in the form of a lump sum to the customer.  All 
parties agree redress cannot now be paid into Mr Ws pension, as hes retired and taken his 
pension benefits. So Mr W wants ReAssure to pay him all the redress as a lump sum.
But FG17/9 also says,  the basic objective of redress is to put the customer, so far as 
possible, into the position they would have been in if the non-compliant or unsuitable advice 
had not been given or the breach had not occurred. And it goes on to say, Where a 
respondent upholds a complaint concerning a non-joiner, opt-out or FSAVC case, the 
respondent may use this guidance as a basis of calculating the redress, to the extent that it 
is appropriate to do so and subject to the particular circumstances of the case". So FG17/9 
makes clear that ReAssure should put Mr W back into the position he should have been in if 
not for its unsuitable advice in 1990, but should also consider the particular circumstances of 
the case.
Given this, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to propose redress in the 
form of a lump sum of £4,749.20 for the difference in charges between Mr Ws FSAVC plan 
and in-house AVC arrangement, plus an annuity of £540.34 per annum for the added years 
he should have had. Ill explain why.Mr W says he wouldnt have had any further contact with ReAssure had its 1990 advice 
been suitable, and pension freedoms should apply here. But pension freedoms hadnt yet 
been brought in when Mr W retired, so they werent something he could have taken 
advantage of at that time. And I think its worth noting that the main TPS scheme is a defined 
benefit arrangement and added years are used to boost the number of years membership in 
the scheme. So had Mr W purchased added years, these would have been used to increase 
the guaranteed income Mr W would have received from the main TPS. So Im satisfied that 
ReAssure providing an annuity for Mr Ws lost added years puts him back into the position 
he should have been in if not for ReAssures unsuitable advice in 1990  because had Mr W 
bought added years, they would have provided a guaranteed income.  
That said, Ive considered if theres any reason why ReAssure should compensate Mr W for 
his future loss by way of a cash lump sum, instead of an annuity as it has proposed. 
Mr W has been given the opportunity to provide evidence that an annuity for this would 
disadvantage him regarding his tax or benefits situation. Mr W argues that such an annuity 
might leave him worse off because his TPS and the FSAVC annuity are linked to different 
indices. But Im not persuaded this would disadvantage Mr W in the way he suggests, 
because the FG17/9 calculation methodology that ReAssure has already used takes RPI 
and CPI as inflation measures into account. 
ReAssure has noted that Mr W paid more to his FSAVC plan that he would have needed to 
buy these extra added years and its acknowledged that these additional funds should have 
been directed to the cheaper in-house AVC. Its offered a cash lump sum to address the 
difference in charges between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances as this represents additional costs Mr W has had to bear as a result of 
ReAssures unsuitable advice.
So while I realise this isnt the answer Mr W hoped for, Im satisfied ReAssures proposed 
method of redress is not unfair or unreasonable in Mr Ws particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
As ReAssures proposed method of redress is not unfair or unreasonable in Mr Ws 
particular circumstances, ReAssure should put things right for Mr W as it has proposed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, ReAssure Limited should put things right for Mr W as it has 
proposed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman