DRN-2377620
The complaint
Mr W believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as Avantcredit, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan hed applied for.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr W took out a £1,000 loan with Avantcredit, to be repaid over 24 months 
with repayments of £59.80 a month. This loan was repaid in December 2017.
Mr W has complained that Avantcredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. He 
said he was struggling to repay his existing credit commitments and used this loan to repay 
outstanding debt. He also said that his credit score was poor at the time, which shouldve 
prevented the loan from being approved. Avantcredit didnt agree, so Mr W brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Avantcredit had verified Mr Ws income and expenditure from a credit 
search. And she didnt think there was anything in this search that meant Avantcredit 
shouldnt have agreed the loan. The investigator said that, while it was possible that not all of 
Mr Ws commitments were showing on the credit search, shed only expect Avantcredit to 
make their decision on the information available to them at the time. And this showed the 
loan was affordable.
So the investigator thought Avantcredit had conducted reasonable and proportionate checks 
when they approved the loan. And she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Avantcredit shouldve done more 
strenuous checks to identify my current borrowing history. This would have then unveiled 
ALL of my existing borrowing at the time of the loan. He thinks that, if Avantcredit had done 
this, it wouldve shown the loan wasnt affordable. And, because I was just borrowing to 
balance my credit repayments from existing loans  this loan was irresponsibly lent.
Mr W has also provided bank statements from 27 January to 26 February 2016, and from 27 
April to 26 May 2016 (which was after Avantcredit approved the loan). He says these show 
how appaling [sic] my financial situation was at the time. So hes asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Avantcredit checked at the time they approved Mr Ws loan. They 
did a credit check which showed Mr Ws declared income of £1,248 a month matched the 
available records. It also showed he hadnt missed any payments in the last 43 months, that 
he owed a total of £7,161, and that the payments for this were £340 a month.
The credit check also showed Mr W had a default 59 months earlier. Different lenders have 
different criteria, so I cant say that the default shouldve automatically meant the loan 
shouldve been declined. But Id expect the default to be factored into any lending decision.
With a declared and verified income of £1,248 a month, and total credit commitments of 
£340 a month, this wouldve left Mr W with £908 a month. Even allowing £600 to pay his rent 
and other household bills, Mr W would have £308 disposable income a month with which to 
pay the new loan payment of slightly less than £60 a month. And, by using this loan to repay 
existing credit, the £340 Mr W was paying to his credit commitments wouldve been reduced.
Taking this into consideration with the fact that Mr W hadnt missed a payment on any credit 
agreement for over three years, and that he intended to use the loan to reduce his existing 
debt; Im satisfied that the checks Avantcredit did were reasonable and proportionate. So I 
wouldnt expect them, to have done anything more.
Mr W has provided bank statements for just before he took out the loan with Avantcredit. 
These show his income was £1,242 a month  a few pounds less than the income he 
declared to Avantcredit. While Mr W was always in his overdraft, there are no unauthorised 
overdraft fees, so Mr W was maintaining his account within the agreed limits. They also 
show that Mr W was using short-term lenders.
The credit search Avantcredit used only gives a total of the number of credit accounts, and 
the total monthly payments, not a breakdown of the individual accounts. So I cant say 
whether theres anything on the bank statements that wasnt on the credit search. But Mr W 
didnt provide Avantcredit with these statements as part of his loan application. So I cant say 
Avantcredit did anything wrong by not taking into consideration things they werent aware of.
For the reasons given, it was reasonable for Avantcredit to rely upon the credit search, and 
the information declared by Mr W, when approving the loan. So I wont be asking them to 
refund any payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC trading as Avantcredit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman