DRN-1503864
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Services Europe Ltd (Amex) has fraudulently altered 
his credit card statements and personal data, has stolen his funds, and not provided the card 
benefits he believes he was entitled to. 
What happened
Mr O had two credit card accounts with Amex, opened in 2019. In March 2019, Amex 
noticed a transaction on one of the cards, a payment to a business connected to Mr O, 
which was a breach of the card account terms and conditions  as this was a cashback card, 
such payments werent permitted. Further information was requested by Amex which wasnt 
provided, and so Amex closed Mr Os accounts. Mr O complained about this to Amex, who 
responded. Mr O wasnt happy with this but didnt bring this complaint to our service. 
Mr O did, however, raise further complaints with Amex regarding other matters. Essentially 
these are that Amex wrecked his credit file, didnt provide any of the benefits due after 
payment of the annual membership fee, stole funds from him, and corruptly tampered with 
his monthly card statements. Mr O said he had lost about £300,000 as a result of the above, 
which is the amount he wants Amex to pay him in compensation.  
Amex responded, advising they are required to report information about customer accounts 
to credit reference agencies on a monthly basis. As Mr O had two live card accounts, this 
information was correctly reported to these agencies and would then appear on his credit 
file. Regarding membership benefits, Amex said cashback is awarded at the end of the card 
anniversary year, but as Mr Os card was cancelled before the anniversary date, any cash 
accrued will be forfeited. Although Amex did refund the £25 annual fee. Regarding the 
allegation Amex had taken money from Mr Os account, Amex said they couldnt find any 
evidence of this, and asked Mr O to provide more precise details to enable further 
investigation as necessary. And regarding the tampered statements allegation, Amex said 
the only manual alteration to his statements was in relation to the membership fee refund.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr O bought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint  he said he couldnt find evidence Amex had treated Mr O unfairly. So, Mr O 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, and its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of Mr Os feelings in this matter. However, I wont be upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Os credit file complaint
Amex advised Mr O they provide all customer card activity to credit reference agencies on a 
monthly basis. Amex must ensure all information provided is correct, so Mr Os credit file 
contains an accurate picture of his financial status at that point in time. It doesnt matter if the 
account hasnt been used or is subsequently closed  if it was a live account Amex will 
report details of it to the agencies. This is the correct thing for Amex to do. But if any 
information reported is incorrect, then Mr O can challenge this  both with the agencies and 
with Amex  so any wrong information can be corrected. In this case, however, Mr O hasnt 
provided any details or clear evidence of what he thinks is the wrong Amex information 
contained within his credit file, or why he thinks his credit file has been wrecked. As such, I 
wont be asking Amex to do anything further regarding their entries on Mr Os credit files. 
Mr Os membership benefit complaint
Mr O says Amex didnt provide him with the card benefits that he was entitled to, and when 
Amex responded to this complaint point, they alerted Mr O to the cards terms:
What happens if we close your Card Account?
If we close [your account] you will lose the Cashback that has been earned but not 
yet applied to your card account as an annual credit
Here, Amex did close Mr Os card accounts before the annual anniversary, so  according to 
the terms of Mr Os card  he would not have been entitled to any cashback previously 
earned. Amex did refund the annual membership fee for the year, which I think was a fair 
thing for them to do in the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Mr Os complaint that Amex took money from his account
Ive seen statements for the period the cashback account was open. I cant see any 
evidence money, belonging to Mr O, has been taken from it by Amex. Mr O hasnt provided 
any detail regarding what or how much he thinks Amex have taken from him, save from a 
general comment  without evidence - he has lost over £300,000 as a result of Amexs 
actions. In the absence of any evidence here, I wont be asking Amex to do anything further.
Mr Os tampered statements allegation
Amex told Mr O the only change made to his statements was in relation to the membership 
fee refund. Mr O hasnt provided details of any other specific alterations that he thinks were 
made by Amex. Accordingly, I wont be asking Amex to do anything further on this issue. 
As well as the above complaint points, Mr O told our investigator Amex hadnt provided him 
with copies of his daily, weekly and yearly account and interest calculation statements. 
However, I note Amex confirmed Mr Os monthly statements were sent to him in July 2019. 
Amexs terms state they only send statements at least once a month. There is no 
requirement to send them more regularly than this. Amex said they couldnt find any 
evidence of statement tampering, so there was no reason for them to provide copy 
statements for periods of less than one month. On the basis Ive also not seen any evidence 
of statement tampering by Amex, I agree there is no need for Amex to provide Mr O with 
daily statements for his accounts. Finally, Mr O told our investigator he believes thousands of other Amex customers have 
been affected in the same way he has  he says the corrupt scams, activities and cover-ups 
of Amex (amongst other things) remain ongoing. These are not complaints this service is 
able to consider or comment on. Accusations of a more general nature such as this would be 
better addressed to Amexs regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman