DRN-4255791
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr B with a loan for £2,000.00 in May 2021. This loan had an APR 
of 35.9% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£3,943.20, including interest, fees and charges of £1,943.20, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of just over £65. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and he thought that 118 118 Money 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr B with his loan. So he thought that 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our investigators assessment. So the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr B could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and 118 118 Money have said. 
I can to some extent understand why 118 118 Money might argue that the relatively low 
monthly payments on this loan meant that a lighter touch affordability assessment was 
reasonable and proportionate here. 
However, while I do acknowledge that the monthly payments here were low, Im concerned 
that 118 118 Moneys own checks showed that Mr B had an extended history of taking out 
payday lending. Furthermore, Im also mindful that 118 118 Money needed to establish that 
Mr B could make the repayments to this loan for what was an extended period. In these 
circumstances, I think that 118 118 Money needed to find out more about Mr Bs income and 
expenditure before determining that the payments were affordable.
Ive therefore considered the further information Mr B has provided about his income and 
expenditure at the time of the loan. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr B was struggling to 
manage his existing commitments. The information provided also clearly shows why this was 
the case. So I think that proportionate checks would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr B 
was already struggling and this meant that he was unlikely to be able to repay this loan 
without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Bs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr B. As 118 118 
Money provided Mr B with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr B ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what 
118 118 Money did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr B by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Bs loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr B paid more than £2,000.00 then 118 118 Money should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, 118 118 
Money should remove any adverse information it recorded about this loan from       
Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman