DRN-4187204
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt apply security checks to his account, and 
unreasonably closed his account.
What happened
When Mr M called Lloyds to transfer some funds and went through to an adviser without 
having to answer any questions, he complained. Lloyds said this was because he called on 
a number that was considered verified, and when this happens it is able to access a 
customers details and perform simple actions without the requirement of additional 
verification. 
In its letter of 12 December 2022, Lloyds said it helped Mr M send some money, but should 
have addressed his questions about his Personal Security Number instead of transferring 
him. And when he called about his subject access requests it should have asked him to call 
back when the specialist team were available. Lloyds apologised to Mr M and paid him £116 
compensation, including £36 call costs. It said it had included everything in Mr Ms subject 
access requests from March to December 2022. Lloyds said it had concerns about how Mr 
M referred to its staff and asked him to be mindful of how he spoke to them. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this and called Lloyds about service issues and the security of his 
account. Lloyds responded by letter of 1 February 2023. Lloyds explained that its checks 
sometimes include using phone identity, as this allows it to recognise a customers phone 
number and customers can access their accounts quickly and securely. Lloyds said it 
couldnt offer the service Mr M needs, and had decided to close his accounts, and gave him 
65 days notice from 1 February to 6 April 2023. Mr M complained about this to Lloyds.
Mr M was dissatisfied with Lloyds response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said Mr M had previously raised 
complaints about comments made by Lloyds staff, advice about subject access requests, 
and security questions asked, but Mr M had referred these to us out of time. But she said we 
can consider Mr Ms complaints for which the final responses were issued on 12 December 
2022 and 1 February 2023, which concerned the closure of his bank account.
The investigator said the terms of the account allow Lloyds to end an agreement without 
notice for specified reasons including if the customer has behaved improperly. But she said 
Lloyds can also close an account without providing its customer with a reason by giving two 
months notice and had acted in line with the terms and conditions by giving Mr M 65 days 
notice. She said we cant disclose this information, but it wasnt due to previous security 
concerns that Mr M had complained about, and Lloyds had acted fairly.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and said hed been put under pressure to respond. He 
said Lloyds committed security breaches and closed his account in response to his raising 
these. He said he had at last received the information from Lloyds on his subject access 
requests. On 13 June 2023 Mr M said he wanted to submit a full report of what happened for 
the ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M requested extra time to provide further information, but two months later he hasnt 
done so. 
Lloyds previous final responses gave Mr M six months to refer his complaint to our service 
and confirmed that after this time, our Service would not have Lloyds consent to investigate 
the matter. A response to Mr Ms complaints regarding comments made on calls, advice 
given regarding how to make a subject access request, security questions, and the line 
being cut off when calling was issued on 1 June 2022. We received Mr Ms referral under 
this case reference on 9 February 2023, as this was more than six months after this final 
response I'm unable to comment any events that occurred within these complaints. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us concerning the closure of his bank account by Lloyds 
within the six-month time limit and I have considered that here. In so doing I have referred to 
the security checks objected to by Mr M but not considered their validity or applicability. 
Lloyds has a duty to protect customers accounts by means of security checks. Mr M is 
sceptical about Lloyds security procedures. Because he was reluctant to give details over 
the phone Lloyds has offered him alternatives, but he has declined these. 
Mr M became frustrated with the security checks and said Lloyds reset his PIN without his 
knowledge and signed him up to telephone authorisation for security, which he had not 
agreed to. It appears his communications with Lloyds became strained and on occasions 
Lloyds have warned Mr M about the way in which he has spoken to its staff. Lloyds then 
closed Mr Ms account
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at the closure of his accounts as this would have been 
hugely inconvenient. However, Lloyds gave Mr M warnings about his behaviour, and I can 
understand why it didnt want to do business with him any longer. As Im sure he will 
appreciate, Lloyds is entitled to close a customers accounts just as a customer is entitled to 
close their account with a bank. We will only look at a decision to close an account to see if a 
bank has treated its customer in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account, 
and to see if it has acted fairly.
Within Lloyds response to Mr Ms complaint in February 2023, Lloyds provided 65 days 
notice that they would close Mr Ms accounts due to a breakdown in their relationship. 
Lloyds final response letter explained that it was, unable to offer the level of service you 
need, and so it decided to close his account. Lloyds provided the correct notice period to Mr 
M.
Given the information provided to me, I believe Lloyds have closed Mr Ms account both 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the terms and conditions of the account and has provided 
him with the correct notice period. As I have said, closure of a bank account involves a great 
deal of inconvenience, but the 65-day notice period should have allowed Mr M time to make 
alternative arrangements. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman