DRN-1592170
 
The complaint
Ms C complains that a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement with Honda 
Finance Europe Plc is not of satisfactory quality. She wants Honda Finance to accept her 
rejection of the car.
What happened
Ms C obtained a new car using a hire purchase agreement with Honda Finance on 8 
September 2017. She says she immediately noticed the car was pulling to the left. She says 
she returned the car to the supplying garage around a week later to report the problem  and 
that, because the fault remained, she returned to that garage on several occasions over the 
coming months. In 2018, when that garage closed, she took the car to two other garages. 
Various investigations and repairs took place, but Ms C says the problem still remains so 
she wants to reject the car.
Honda Finance said there wasnt any evidence to show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. It said the car had been driven nearly 7,000 miles before Ms C 
reported any issues, which doesnt suggest the car was faulty when it was supplied.
Having referred her complaint to us, Ms C obtained an independent report. The engineer 
concluded that the car was pulling to the left and that it would benefit from a wheel 
alignment. The report made no comment about whether this problem was likely to have been 
present when the car was supplied.
Our investigator thought the problem with the steering was more likely than not to have been 
present when the car was supplied and that, because the car was new, Ms C should 
reasonably have expected the car to be free from any defects.
Our investigator concluded that Honda Finance should accept Ms Cs rejection of the car 
and that it should:
End the agreement with nothing more for Ms C to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Ms C.
Refund the deposit of £8,500 plus 8% interest.
Pay Ms C £1,000 to reflect the impaired use of the car.
Pay Ms C 300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Pay Ms C £199.95 to repay her for the cost of obtaining an independent report.
 
In recommending the compensation payments of £1,000 and £300, the investigator 
explained that Ms C had experienced extremely difficult health issues and the fault with the 
car made it particularly difficult for her to handle the car and had increased her pain.
Honda Finance didnt agree. It replied, in some detail, to say, in summary that:Several technicians have assessed the car over a prolonged period of time and no 
fault could be identified.
The independent report confirms the car pulls to the left, but confirms no fault or 
defect was identified. The engineer has not mentioned the damage to the car.
Wheel alignment is a maintenance issue. The garage recommended Ms C arrange 
for a wheel alignment in 2019. And it recommended wheel alignment is checked if a 
wheel comes into contact with a curb or pothole.
There has been significant damage to the car, including to a wheel and tyre. This 
damage is the likely cause of the wheel alignment issue.
The wheel alignment is completed before a new car leaves the factory and again at 
the supplying garage as part of its pre delivery inspection process. And Honda 
Finance provided evidence that this check had been satisfactorily completed by the 
supplying garage.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Honda Finance is the supplier of goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has taken 
place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault/s materialised.
The car in this case was new. So its reasonable to expect it to be free from any defects for a 
considerable period of time. But Ms C says she noticed problems with the steering straight 
away. And that after a week she returned the car to the supplying garage. That garage has 
now closed, so theres no evidence of Ms Cs contact with it or what the garage did when Ms 
C took the car in. But Ms C has been consistent in her recollection of when she first noticed 
a problem and when she first returned the car to the garage. She also says she contacted 
the garage numerous times after that because the fault was not fixed. This is supported by 
comments on one of the job cards from April 2018. Next to the reported problem with the 
steering is a handwritten comment which indicates Ms C has reported this problem, quite a 
lot of times. I dont agree with Honda Finance that the first time Ms C reported this problem 
was in April 2018, after shed driven the car 7,000 miles. 
So, I think the problem with the steering pulling to the left was likely to have been present 
when the car was supplied - because Ms C reported it so soon after she took delivery of the 
car.
Honda Finance says the likely cause of the problem is the damage the car sustained in or 
around November 2017. Various job cards note damage to the tyres, wheels and side step, 
suggesting the car has hit a curb. But, as Ive already noted, Ms C first reported the problem with the steering in September 2017. So I find it unlikely that the damage to the car is the 
cause of the problem.
In April 2018, the garage confirms that the car is pulling to the left and that a four wheel 
alignment check is required. 
And this is also the conclusion reached by the independent engineer.
And, rather than being a maintenance issue as Honda Finance suggests, I think its likely 
that there is an underlying fault  because the wheels were aligned before Ms C obtained 
the car.
Ms C reported a problem around a week after the car was supplied. Its not clear what 
adjustments or repairs the supplying garage completed, but it was given more than one 
opportunity to fix the problem. 
In the circumstances, I think Ms C gave the supplying garage several opportunities to 
resolve the fault, and it failed to do so.
So I find its fair that Honda Finance should now accept her rejection of the car and cancel 
the agreement with nothing further for her to pay, removing it from her credit file. It should 
refund the cash deposit Ms C paid, plus interest, and reimburse her for the cost of the 
independent report.
Ive also considered whether Honda Finance should refund any of the payments Ms C has 
made under the agreement. But, as shes been able to drive the car, or had a courtesy car 
supplied, I think its fair that she pays for this use. Likewise, she should have to pay for the 
normal costs of running a car, such as insurance.
Like the investigator, Ive considered Ms Cs individual circumstances here and the impact 
being supplied an unsatisfactory car has had on her. Unfortunately Ms C was diagnosed with 
a severe health condition and she has had invasive treatment for a prolonged period, 
including hospital admissions. And shes explained how the steering pull has caused her 
more pain. In the circumstances I agree with the compensation payments recommended by 
our investigator.
In coming to this conclusion Ive taken into account that Honda Finance has been mindful of 
Ms Cs personal circumstances and I can see that, in particular, when Ms C took her 
complaint to the manufacturers customer services team, staff did try their very best to help 
Ms C and make things easier for her  including collecting the car from her home address 
and providing her with an appropriate courtesy car. But if the supplying garage had acted 
reasonably when Ms C first reported the problem in September 2017, she would not have 
had to put up with an unsatisfactory car for such a long time. So I think the compensation is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Honda Finance Financial Services Limited 
should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Ms C.
3. Refund the cash deposit paid of 8,500.00, plus 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Pay Ms C £1,000 to reflect the impaired use of the car.5. Pay Ms C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
6. Pay Ms C £199.95 to reimburse her for the cost of the independent report.
7. Remove the finance agreement from Ms Cs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Honda Finance Financial Services Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Honda Finance Financial Services Limited must give Ms C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman