DRN-4395593
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with how Select Contracts UK Limited  trading as Select Car Leasing 
(SCL) brokered a hire agreement for a car. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs R took a hire agreement, brokered by SCL, to acquire a new car.
Mrs R says the agreement shouldve included a maintenance package. But, around a year 
after she took the agreement, she said she found out this hadnt been included when she 
tried to book her car for a service.
Mrs R complained to SCL. It issued its final response in September 2022. This said, in 
summary, that the order form signed with SCL did indicate that maintenance would be 
included. And it said having reviewed phone calls from the time, it was made clear to SCL 
that Mrs R wanted the agreement to include this.
SCL said when the supplying dealer then sent the quote through for the agreement, which 
SCL presented to Mrs R, due to an error the maintenance package wasnt included. And it 
pointed out the credit agreement Mrs R later signed made it clear this wasnt the case. 
SCL explained as a broker, it couldnt change the terms of the agreement. But, it said due to 
the error, it would reimburse Mrs R the cost of the cars first service.
Mrs R then referred the complaint to our service. She said the maintenance package should 
be included with the price agreed at the time. She wanted to be reimbursed for the service 
she paid for in addition to a set of tyres.
Our investigator issued an opinion. In summary, he said SCL had made a mistake with the 
information it had passed onto Mrs R. But he said he didnt think she had lost out financially 
because of this. He said the offer to reimburse Mrs R for the cars first service was fair and 
reasonable to reflect what happened.
Mrs R disagreed. In summary, she said she wouldnt have taken the finance if she had 
known it didnt include the maintenance. And she said she had been paying a higher price 
because of this. Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer SCL has made is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mrs R complains about brokering of a hire agreement. Im satisfied a regulated credit broking 
activity took place here as set out under 36A of The Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Rs complaint 
about SCL.
Its not in dispute here that Mrs R made it clear to SCL that she wanted the hire agreement 
to include a maintenance package.
Looking at the Quotation and Vehicle Form from SCL, this says the finance type is PCH 
(Maintained) and next to a ticked box says By ticking this box, you acknowledge that you 
are opting for a maintained contract. And this form contains the same monthly payment that 
is on the agreement Mrs R later took.
That being said, it is also worth pointing out here that this form does say below this that:
The funder has the right to change or decline these quotes on receipt of the full proposal
And it says under Your Responsibilities:
In order for us to fulfil our responsibilities to you, you must:
Read the documentation we give you and let us know if there is anything that is unclear or 
that does not represent your requirements
The hire agreement Mrs R then signed doesnt set out any charges for a maintenance 
package. And it includes under a heading Finance Agreement Type  Contract Hire without 
Maintenance that:
As indicated above you have opted not to take maintenance services from us for the Term 
of this Agreement. It is therefore your responsibility to arrange and pay for all servicing, 
maintenance and repairs in accordance with the Manufacturers recommendations and the  
Terms and Conditions of this Agreement.
Thinking about all of this, I think its clear Mrs R told SCL that she wanted the maintenance 
package. Im satisfied SCL gave Mrs R the impression the initial quoted amount included this 
 albeit with a disclaimer to check details on the agreement. And Im satisfied when Mrs R 
then received the agreement itself, this explained maintenance wasnt included.
SCL accepts it made a mistake here. And I agree, considering all of the above, that when 
brokering the credit SCL shouldve ideally done more to make it clear to Mrs R that the 
agreement differed to what was initially discussed. 
So, what I need to decide here is whether SCLs offer to put things right is fair, or if it needs 
to do more.
Its worth pointing out that Im satisfied its very unlikely Mrs R was ever going to get the hire 
agreement with the maintenance package included for the same monthly price she agreed 
to. I think its much more likely that if the package had been included, Mrs R wouldve been 
paying more on a monthly basis. I also havent seen anything to suggest the same car was 
available for the same or less money elsewhere, including the maintenance. 
Thinking about all of this, and given the likely relatively small difference in monthly cost 
between the package being included or not, Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs argument that she 
wouldnt have entered into this agreement had she understood it didnt include maintenance.While Mrs R said shes been paying more due to this, I havent seen any evidence this was 
the case. I havent, for example, been provided with a breakdown of the monthly 
maintenance package cost compared to the likely cost of servicing over the term of the 
agreement.
So, thinking about this, Im not persuaded Mrs R is financially worse off because of what 
happened.
But, all of that being said, I do think Mrs R suffered some distress and inconvenience here. 
Whilst I agree with our investigator that it might have been prudent to check the finance 
agreement, I think it must have been stressful to realise the package wasnt included when 
she expected it to be. And I accept this situation would cause some inconvenience as Mrs R 
will have to find the money and arrange to pay for servicing separately. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think the offer SCL made to reimburse Mrs R the 
cost of the first service for the car is fair and reasonable to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Select Contracts UK Limited  trading as Select Car Leasing has already made an offer to put 
things right on this case by reimbursing Mrs R the cost of the first service for the car. 
My final decision is that this offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
So, I instruct Select Contracts UK Limited  trading as Select Car Leasing, if it hasnt already 
done so, to reimburse Mrs R the cost of the first service of the car when she provides it with 
evidence of the amount paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman