DRN-2719518
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy Legal & General Assurance Society Ltd declined their critical 
illness claim. 
Mrs H and Mr Hs solicitor has brought this complaint on their behalf. For ease, Ill refer to 
their actions as that of Mrs H. 
What happened
In March 2015 Mrs H applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness 
cover. Mrs H checked the application and sent a declaration to L&G confirming the details 
were correct.  
Sadly, in June 2019 Mrs H had to make a claim on her policy after being diagnosed with 
breast cancer. L&G reviewed the claim but decided to decline it. It said Mrs H had failed to 
make it aware of hospital appointments in 2010. Specifically, L&G said Mrs H shouldve 
made it aware of these appointments in response to the following questions; 
 Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for;
A growth, lump, polyp or tumour of any kind?
L&G said Mrs H had been seen in April 2010 in a breast clinic in relation to a lump. Mrs H 
had an ultrasound and a biopsy which indicated the lump was likely a fibroadenoma and she 
was asked to have a further review six months later. In October 2010 Mrs H was seen in a 
breast clinic where a further biopsy was carried out and Mrs H had said she preferred not to 
have the lump removed. In November 2010 a consultant sent a letter to Mrs H confirming 
that he thought the lump was likely to be a fibroadenoma and no further action was needed 
unless the lump increased in size. So, L&G said if it had been made aware of this 
information it wouldve added a breast cancer exclusion to the policy.
Mrs H complained to L&G, but it didnt change its decision. It said the question it asked was 
clear, and due to the hospital appointments Mrs H attended in 2010, she shouldve provided 
this information when answering the above question. L&G said it couldnt provide its 
underwriting guidelines to Mrs H. But it confirmed that as her lump hadnt been 
removed/excised it wouldve applied a breast cancer exclusion to the policy. This was 
because it couldnt be sure that occult malignancy isnt present. 
Mrs H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. Mrs H said L&G 
hadnt treated her fairly by adding the breast cancer exclusion to the policy. And she 
provided information from one of her consultants challenging L&Gs assertion that benign 
lumps should be removed to exclude malignancy and that he didnt think her fibroadenoma 
diagnosis meant she was more likely to develop breast cancer.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought Mrs H had 
made a careless misrepresentation and from the evidence provided by L&G, he was 
satisfied it wouldve added a breast cancer exclusion to the policy. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the hospital 
appointments only fell within the five-year timeframe, set out in the above question, by a 
matter of weeks. These appointments only confirmed the earlier diagnosis of fibroadenoma 
but shouldnt be considered an increased insurance risk. Mrs H said her consultant had 
confirmed her chances of getting breast cancer hadnt increased. And L&G was potentially 
holding a subjective interpretation of its underwriting guidelines which this service had 
disagreed with in a separate decision involving a third party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs H and Mr H. Id like to assure them I havent made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive 
looked at and considered all the evidence Mrs H and Mr H and L&G have provided to this 
service  and Id like to assure them that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because 
I havent considered it, but because Im focusing instead on whats important to the outcome. 
Each complaint is decided on its own facts and merits, and in considering this case Ive 
taken into account the evidence provided about Mrs Hs fibroadenoma and the underwriting 
criteria and statements from L&G. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mrs H has misrepresented her medical history 
when taking out this policy. And if so, L&G needs to show it wouldnt have offered the policy 
at all or on different terms. 
Was there a misrepresentation in relation to Mr Hs appointments in 2010?
CIDRA requires me to consider whether a reasonable person wouldve made L&G aware of 
the fibroadenoma when applying for the policy. Having done so, I dont think a reasonable 
person wouldve forgotten the above when completing, and then reviewing, the application 
when considering the question L&G asked. 
I understand Mrs H has said her fibroadenoma was diagnosed in 2008 which is outside of 
the five-year timeframe in L&Gs question. But having reviewed the question she was asked, 
Im satisfied it was sufficiently clear to allow her to answer it correctly. 
Mrs H had hospital appointments within the last five years for a lump which is what L&G 
wanted to know about. And Mrs H answered the question in relation to a lump on her arm. 
So, I believe she understood it. And Im satisfied there were also clear and suitable warnings 
about the failure to answer these questions correctly during the sale. So, I believe L&G 
sufficiently brought these to Mrs Hs attention. 
So, I believe Mrs H did make a misrepresentation here. What would L&G have done differently? 
L&G has treated this misrepresentation as careless. Im not satisfied Mrs H deliberately or 
recklessly misrepresented her medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise her 
actions as careless here. And under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has made a 
careless misrepresentation, L&G can take whatever action it wouldve taken if the correct 
answers had been given at the point of application. Based on what we know about Mrs Hs 
hospital appointments in 2010, L&G has provided its underwriting criteria and supporting 
statements from one of its underwriters which shows if it was made aware of these, then it 
wouldve applied an exclusion for breast cancer to the policy. And its issued a revised 
decreasing term assurance policy with an exclusion for breast cancer. 
Mrs H has challenged the underwriting criteria and provided additional information from her 
consultant to support her complaint. Ive reviewed these carefully and Ive noted what Mrs H 
and her treating consultant have said.
I understand that Mrs H and her consultant disagree with L&Gs stance here, but whether to 
accept the risk of underwriting a policy falls upon L&G and its underwriters. And an 
underwriter has explained there is an increased risk of developing breast cancer following a 
diagnosis of fibroadenoma which is supported by the medical information in the underwriting 
criteria. Ive also noted Mrs Hs consultant has said there is some evidence fibroadenoma 
increases the risk of breast cancer  even if only slightly. So, Im satisfied its decision to 
retrospectively apply this exclusion to Mrs Hs policy and decline her claim is fair and in line 
with what CIDRA sets out.
I know my decision leaves Mrs H in a difficult position following her diagnosis. Im sorry to 
disappoint her, but overall, I dont think shes been treated unfairly. So, Im not going to ask 
L&G to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman