DRN-3085568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say their joint reviewable whole of life policy has been mis-sold. Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited now has responsibility for the operation of the policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R first took out the policy, titled as a Kaleidoscope policy through General 
Accident. It has since been taken over by Aviva. It is a reviewable whole of life policy. It had 
an initial premium of £40 per month and a sum assured of £50,000. The policy was arranged 
by a different financial adviser.    
Mr and Mrs R complained to Aviva in 2019 after asking for more information about the 
policy. They said they believed the policy began in 1986, but Avivas documentation said it 
was 1989. They said they did not take out the policy on the basis that the sum assured of 
£50,000 could be varied, and they were told it would remain at that same amount. 
At the time they took the policy, Mr R was a smoker but he stopped smoking just over a year 
later  and yet the policy premium wasnt amended to reflect this. Finally, Mr and Mrs R said 
they wanted Aviva to clarify if the premium included any aspect of payment protection 
insurance (PPI) as this hadnt been made clear and if included, their view was it would 
render the policy mis-sold.  
Aviva rejected the complaint in October 2019. It said Mr and Mrs R were not sold a PPI 
policy  it was a whole of life policy. And it had not sold the policy to them, therefore had no 
further investigation to complete. 
It then sent a further response to the complaint in respect of the whole of life policy that 
same month. It said the policy began on 20 September 1989, with a premium guaranteed for 
the first ten years, after which the policy became subject to reviews. It explained to Mr and 
Mrs R how whole of life policies operated, and why life cover may be reduced in later years. 
It also set out that it was likely that a change to the premium would be required at the next 
review in 2020. 
In respect of Mr Rs smoker status, Aviva confirmed that in 1990 Mr R had told it he was now 
a non-smoker. It said that as the policy had been in force for less than two years the 
premiums could not be reduced but the change had the impact of reducing the charges for 
life cover  and General Accident t had written to Mr and Mrs R about that at the time. 
Mr and Mrs R said they remained unhappy and Aviva had failed to understand their 
complaint. They referred the complaint to this service in April 2020. 
In the interim, the policy was reviewed again in August 2020 and Aviva confirmed a change 
was required to maintain the policys sum assured.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. 
She said Aviva hadnt advised Mr and Mrs R nor had it recommended the policy to them. It 
had provided product literature, and this had set out how the policy worked. In terms of Mr 
Rs smoker status, she noted whilst this had changed, Aviva was not liable to reduce the 
policy premium  and the documentation hadnt suggested that it was.  
Mr and Mrs R said they disagreed. They provided a detailed response to the investigator, 
which I have read in full. In summary, they said:
the policy documentation (for which they have provided a further example from 2017 
confirming the fund value) sets out the sum assured was £50,000 and makes no 
mention of this being a changeable figure;
the policy wording suggests the sum assured is guaranteed unconditionally;
they do recognise some of the paperwork explained the detail of the policy;
but the documentation was ambiguous and misleading on the whole;
the information skated over the small print and General Accident were able to decide 
which headline message it wanted to concentrate on;
though the investigator had pointed out that the policy documentation explained 
about reviews, the quote she gave did not show how it would practically affect Mr and 
Mrs R  i.e. that the sum assured could be reduced or the premium increased;
this services website says we deal with these types of complaints about reviews 
leading to increased premiums or reduced policy values;
at no time before 2020 had they realised the sum assured could be reduced;
Avivas actions in reducing the sum assured has strongly undermined their 
confidence in the value of the policy; 
at the time of the sale, policies of this nature (as previously with endowment policies) 
were routinely mis-sold;
had they appreciated that the life cover was not guaranteed they would have had 
second thoughts about taking out the policy;
they consider that Aviva / General Accident has been less than clear in its literature, 
documents and correspondence concerning the marketing, sale and administration of 
the policy to the point of being misleading;
General Accident cannot be blameless because a different business made the 
recommendation for the policy;
they therefore ask that their complaint is upheld and appropriate recompense made.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, and so the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I agree that this complaint should 
not succeed.  
I can see that our investigator has sought to explain to Mr and Mrs R in some detail about 
the constraints of this complaint. There are rules around the complaints that this service can 
consider. We can only look at a complaint as it rests against the actions or inactions of a 
respondent business in relation to some type of regulated activity. That means I cannot 
consider what Mr and Mrs R may have been advised in 1989 in terms of the 
recommendation they received from the third party to take out the policy  because Aviva did 
not make any such recommendation or give advice about the policy.  General Accident (for which Aviva is now responsible) did, however, have a responsibility to 
ensure the documentation it provided about the policy was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive looked at the documentation issued to Mr and Mrs R at the time of the sale, and I 
believe it clearly sets out how that the policy is a reviewable whole of life policy  not a life 
assurance policy. A life assurance policy has a fixed premium because cover ends at an 
agreed date. This type of cover may be sold alongside mortgage lending, to match a 
predicted large financial liability in the event a policyholder were to pass away.  
A whole of life policy provides life cover, but it is an investment policy with no fixed end date. 
The premiums paid by the policyholders are invested in one or more investment funds (in 
this case, Avivas Mixed Invest 40-80% Shares Fund) which pay for the costs involved, such 
as providing the life cover and administering the policy  and those charges are set out in 
the policy terms and conditions issued to Mr and Mrs R in 1989. 
Any money not used for this builds up in the investment pot. As policyholders age, the cost 
of life cover becomes more expensive and more of the monthly payment goes to pay for life 
cover and less remains invested in the underlying fund(s). Those life cover charges can 
exceed the amount of the monthly premium, and when that happens the money in the 
investment pot is used to supplement the premium to pay the life cover charges.
The policy is reviewable, meaning at agreed periods determined from the outset, Aviva will 
assess whether the policy is able to continue providing the chosen level of life cover. Its 
actuaries will consider aspects of the cover such as the fund value, investment performance 
current mortality rates, and projections for future investment performance. For Mr and Mrs 
Rs policy, there were no reviews for the first ten years. They then took place every five 
years thereafter until Mr R reached age 70 as the older policyholder, at which time the 
reviews were undertaken annually.  
Aviva has acted within the terms of the policy by undertaking the review in August 2020  
and it was within its remit to determine the policy wasnt sustainable at its current premium. 
And though Mr and Mrs R have suggested otherwise, I believe the documentation is clear 
that the policy will undergo reviews. Nor have I seen any clear suggestion that the sum 
assured is guaranteed  Aviva confirmed that it is set until the date of the next review. 
In respect of Mr Rs smoker status, Aviva has also acted within the agreed policy terms. It 
was not obliged to amend the policy premium. However, General Accident correctly set out 
in writing in the letter dated 22 September 1990 that we can confirm that as your policy is 
less than two years old, the premiums cannot be reduced in accordance with the above 
declaration [Mr Rs statement that he had stopped smoking], however, due to the decrease 
in risk, the charges for your life cover will be reduced and the extra amount of money will be 
used to allocate more units to your policy. 
Aviva has also been able to provide the policy schedule and application, and it is clear that 
the cover commenced in September 1989. I realise that Mr and Mrs R remain unhappy 
about what they were told about the policy and the cover it would provide in future years, but 
Aviva (and General Accident before it) isnt responsible for that. They remain free to 
complain to the financial adviser in question, if required. 
My final decision
From everything Ive seen, Aviva is not operating the policy unfairly or unreasonably. I 
therefore cannot uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman