DRN-1250860
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (ACA) invoiced him for items he didn't 
agree to have when he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement for a car. He also complains 
about the quality of the car. He would like to reject the car. And to end his finance 
agreement.
What happened
Mr H says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with ACA in October 2018. He says he 
didn't get an invoice when he took out the agreement. And only recently discovered he was 
paying for items he hadn't agreed to have. And  which hadn't been explained to him at the 
point of sale. This included, for example, £25 for mats he had never received, a service plan, 
warranty and a  protect product.
Mr H added he didn't feel the car was road worthy as he couldn't use one of the seatbelts. 
He says ACA told him he was responsible for routine service and maintenance and so has 
refused to  resolve the seatbelt issue for him, for free.
Mr H says he has found this situation immensely stressful. He says he is paying for a car he 
can't use which is causing him financial problems and affecting his health. He would like to 
return the car and cancel the agreement. And says he has offered to pay £1,000-£2,000 to 
do so.
ACA said that the additional items Mr ACA agreed when he took out his agreement were 
non refundable. It said they were clearly listed on the vehicle order form. And Mr H signed a 
declaration indicating he was aware of what he was paying for. It said it wasn't responsible 
for routine service or maintenance issues on the car.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She found that Mr H signed a vehicle order 
form which clearly listed all the additional items he agreed to have.  In addition, she found Mr 
H had been given a car information document  telling him how to use the products he had 
paid for. Finally, she had seen that Mr H had signed a demands and needs statement for 
each product. And a customer declaration confirming Mr H had been given all the 
information he needed about the agreement.
Our investigator confirmed that Mr H would need to raise a complaint with the credit provider 
if he felt the car wasn't of satisfactory quality
ACA accepted this view but Mr H didn't. He asked for an Ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H feels strongly about this, so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as I've reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Mr H's main point is that he was unaware he had paid for additional products when he took 
out his finance agreement.
I have looked carefully at all the documentation Mr H signed and was given when he took 
out his agreement. The vehicle order form clearly listed a protect product, a fuel charge, 
mats, road fund licence (RFL) a service plan and warranty with the charge for each. Mr H 
signed this form.
In addition, I can see that Mr H also signed individual  'demands and needs' forms for the 
warranty, service plan, protect product and  vehicle road insurance (VRI).
ACA also gave Mr H a car information document which outlined the individual products he 
took out  This listed , and included information on, the warranty, service plan, VRI, the 
protect product and a complementary accident management service.
Finally, Mr H signed a declaration form confirming that he had been given all the necessary 
information relating to the agreement.
Given the amount of information ACA gave Mr H I can understand that he might have been 
slightly confused by the number of additional products available. And when looking at the 
documents myself I noted that not every item he agreed to have was on every document. 
For example, I couldn't see that the fuel and mat charges were listed in the car information 
document.
However given the amount of information Mr H had. And the number of individual documents 
he signed I am persuaded that Mr H was aware that he agreed to a number of products the 
costs of which were then added to his finance agreement.
And if Mr H  wasn't happy with  didn't understand or didn't want these products that he could 
have simply not agreed to sign for them. And could have asked for them to be removed from 
his agreement. But he didn't do so.
So whilst it's unfortunate that Mr H is now paying for something he perhaps now feels he 
doesn't need I don't have evidence that ACA has done anything wrong that would be 
grounds for me to say Mr H should now be able to reject his car.
I have noted in correspondence between our investigator and ACA after the investigator 
issued her view that ACA has said it had no reason to belive the mats Mr H paid for hadn't 
been provided . However it offered to provide the mats as a gesture of goodwill.
I don't feel I can ask ACA to provide the mats  since I have no evidence they weren't 
supplied with the car when Mr H got it. But  as Mr H has said he didn't get the mats he might 
appreciate the gesture of goodwill if ACA were to provide these.
Finally, I am aware that Mr H has raised an issue of the quality of the car.This is based, as I 
understand, on a problem he has with one of seatbelts which he raised with ACA in July 
2019 .As Mr H took out his agreement in October 2018 this is some nine months after he 
had the car.
If Mr H does feel there are quality issues with the car he should raise these with the finance 
provider. And, of course, if he isn't satisfied with the answer he can come to our service with 
a complaint if he wishes to do so. Mr H might find it useful to know that as the issue seems 
to have arisen more than six months after he had the car it would be up to him to show there was a problem present or developing at the point of sale for which the finance provider 
is liable.. And if such an issue is identified we would usually say it's reasonable to allow one 
attempt to repair a problem.
I have also noted Mr H has made reference to financial problems. And has offered to end his 
agreement by paying between £1,000-£2,000. If Mr H is having problems meeting the 
repayments on his finance agreement he might want to raise this with the finance provider to 
see what his options are. And to see if  he can come to some mutually acceptable 
agreement. We do expect businesses to be sympathetic to financial problems. But that 
doesn't mean we would expect them to agree to settle a loan for a much lower amount than 
is owed.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman