DRN-4477362
The complaint
DL, a limited company, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money did not 
refund a transaction it lost as part of a scam.
Mr D is the director of DL and facilitated the payment on its behalf. Ill refer to both DL and 
Mr D within this decision.    
What happened
Mr D was looking to purchase property and found a development he was happy to invest in. 
He received photos, plans and paperwork for the property and once he was satisfied with 
this, he paid a £5,000 reservation fee on 9 January 2018 from DLs account with Virgin 
Money via online banking. However, soon after this, the communication between himself and 
the estate agent slowed down and he later found they did not own the property or have the 
relevant planning permission.
Mr D sent a complaint letter to Virgin Money which they received on 24 January 2023. Virgin 
Money responded on 23 February 2023 and explained that as the payment was authorised 
and the amount was not out of character when compared to the normal account activity, they 
didnt agree they should refund the £5,000. 
DL referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and explained that 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code did not apply to the transaction, as it 
occurred before the code was set up. And when they compared the £5,000 payment to DLs 
normal account activity, they didnt think it looked so unusual to have warranted intervention 
by Virgin Money before it was processed. Finally, they felt that Mr D had used DLs funds to 
make a personal investment, meaning the loss was Mr Ds alone. So, they didnt agree DL 
had suffered a financial loss as a result. 
Mr D, on behalf of DL, disagreed with the findings. He felt that the purchase was unusual 
when compared with the regular account activity and that there should have been some form 
of intervention by Virgin Money. And he pointed out that as he is the owner of DL, where the 
scam payment originated from did not matter, as he has still suffered a loss overall. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr D, on behalf of DL, authorised the payment of £5,000 as he 
believed it was part of a legitimate property purchase. So, while I recognise that DL didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Virgin Money was 
obliged to follow DLs instruction and process the payment. Because of this, DL is not 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Virgin Money did 
enough to try to keep DLs account safe.
To do this, Ive looked over DLs bank statements and compared the transaction of £5,000 to 
the regular account activity. Generally speaking, business accounts tend to deal with higher 
value transactions, and I can see there were a number of high value withdrawals on the 
account. Though I do acknowledge Mr D has said these were largely dividend withdrawals to 
another internal account. There were other higher value payments to His Majestys Revenue 
and Customs and other transfers for closer to £2,000. On balance, having considered the 
account activity as a whole, I just dont think the transaction in question was so unusual to 
have warranted intervention from Virgin Money prior to it being processed. So, I dont think it 
has missed an opportunity to reveal the scam. 
Ive seen evidence showing that when DL raised a complaint with Virgin Money about the 
scam payment, there were no longer any funds remaining in the receiving bank account. So, 
there was nothing further they could do to try and recover the funds once they were aware of 
the scam. 
I appreciate that there is a disagreement over whether or not DL itself, which is the entity 
that has brought this complaint, has suffered a loss or if the loss actually sits with Mr D. 
However, as I dont think that Virgin Money needs to refund the £5,000, I dont think this 
needs to be discussed in further detail within this decision. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I dont think Virgin Money needs to 
refund DL with the £5,000.
  
My final decision
I do not uphold DLs complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask DL to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman