DRN-1831708
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont investigate transactions on 
his account that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of the key points here.
On 6 February 2019 Mr S contacted RBS to say he didnt recognise payments that had 
debited his account. There were a large number of transactions that Mr S disputed. The 
most recent of these took place in September 2017. 
RBS explained that the terms and conditions of the account and the relevant regulations 
mean they dont have to investigate transactions that are disputed more than 13 months 
after theyve debited the account. Mr S explained that he had been very busy with a court 
case and gave other reasons why he felt the time limit shouldnt apply. 
RBS maintained their position and the matter was referred to our service. Mr S made 
significant submissions explaining why he felt it wasnt fair for RBS not to investigate. These 
included that hed suffered a family bereavement and his parents had gone through a 
divorce. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She sympathised with Mr S and 
acknowledged hed had a difficult time. But she didnt think RBS decision was unreasonable 
in the circumstances. As he still disagrees, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me 
explain why. 
Id like to first point out that Im not making a finding as to whether or not Mr S made or 
authorised the transactions in question. This complaint is about whether or not it is fair and 
reasonable for RBS to decline to investigate the transactions Mr S disputes. 
Mr S has made considerable submissions in bringing his complaint. I have considered 
everything hes sent in, but I wont be responding in similar detail. So if I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr S doesnt take 
this as a discourtesy  it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Section 59 of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) says:(1)A payment service user is entitled to redress only if it notifies the payment service 
provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date...
(2) Where the payment service provider has failed to provide or to make available 
information concerning the payment transactionsthe payment service user is entitled to 
redress under the regulations referred to in paragraph (1) notwithstanding that the payment 
service user has failed to notify the payment service provider as mentioned in that 
paragraph.
RBS have provided evidence that Mr S regularly made use of his online banking. And 
generally speaking, I dont think its unreasonable to expect an account holder to periodically 
check their account. Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S would have seen the 
transactions he disputes during his numerous checks of online banking. And even if Im 
wrong on that point and Mr S somehow didnt notice them (which I dont accept), Im 
satisfied this information was made available to him to enable him to dispute the transactions 
if he didnt recognise them.
This means that Mr S had 13 months from the debit date of each transaction to raise it with 
RBS. The latest transaction he wished to dispute was on 7 September 2017 so he had until 
7 October 2018 to tell RBS about this. Mr S didnt contact RBS until 6 February 2019. So 
based on this (and the fact that the other transactions debited the account earlier than 
7 September 2017)  Im satisfied that all the transactions Mr S wished to dispute were 
raised beyond the 13 month time limit. 
Mr S has provided various documents to help explain why he didnt report matters earlier. 
This includes a death certificate for a family member who sadly passed away on 4 October 
2018. He also provided a petition for divorce in relation to his parents which is was dated 
26 March 2019. I acknowledge that it sounds like Mr S has had a very difficult time with a lot 
going on over the last few years.
But Im not persuaded that any of the evidence hes provided means that its unfair for RBS 
to rely on the relevant regulations when declining to investigate the transactions he disputes. 
Particularly when it appears the bereavement occurred a few days before the deadline for 
the latest transaction and the divorce went through after the deadline had already passed. 
However, for clarity, even if those events had been within the time Mr S had to dispute his 
transactions with RBS, my thoughts would be the same. The nature of my role means I can 
consider what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But I must also 
take account of relevant regulations. 
The regulations and their intent are clear. RBS arent obliged to investigate transactions that 
are disputed more than 13 months after the debit date. I appreciate Mr S has alleged that the 
statements from the bank are all misrepresentations. But I think it more likely than not that 
the statements accurately reflect the dates of the transactions in question. I find the evidence 
of Mr S logging in to his online banking to be persuasive. I think he had ample opportunity to 
dispute the transactions in question sooner than he did. Im not persuaded there is anything 
so unusual and specific to the circumstances of this complaint that mean I can fairly say that 
RBS shouldnt rely on the relevant regulations. And it follows that I dont think RBS decision 
is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome that Mr S was hoping for and I know he feels very strongly 
about this. But he has the option to reject my decision, in which case it wont be legally 
binding. So, if he decides to pursue this with RBS through other avenues, such as the courts 
his legal position wont have been impacted by having come to our service.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman