DRN-1756814
The complaint
Mr B complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (T/A First Direct) processed a faster payment 
instruction.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with First Direct. On 16 December 2019 he contacted First Direct to 
ask it to set up a new payment beneficiary from his account. First Direct said, during that 
call, Mr B didnt mention when he would send money to that beneficiary or ask it to make a 
payment on his behalf.
The following day, Mr B sent a faster payment of just over £10000 from his account to the 
new beneficiary using his mobile banking app. He wanted this payment to reach the 
intended recipients account the same day. But he said the intermediary bank that received 
this payment told him the funds werent received until 19 December 2019. 
Mr B wasnt happy. He said the delay in his payment crediting the receiving account caused 
him to incur a loss due to exchange rate differences. So, he complained to First Direct about 
what had happened.
After First Direct investigated, it told Mr B his payment had credited the receiving account at 
21:30pm on 17 December 2019. And it informed him that banks are allowed to make further 
checks on payments, which can cause delay. It explained it hadnt made an error in 
processing Mr Bs payment. And it wasnt able to investigate any delay on the part of the 
receiving bank.
But Mr B wasnt happy with First Directs response to his complaint and referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what happened and, while they empathised with Mr B, 
they didnt uphold his complaint. Overall, they didnt think that First Direct had made an error 
or needed to do anything more here. But Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint. But, having thought about everything he and First Direct have said, Ive 
reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Mr B will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Mr B has told our service about how a different bank dealt with a faster payment to an 
overseas recipient. He said he didnt experience any delays on that occasion. But, while I 
understand why Mr B may be keen for me to know about how another bank dealt with a 
faster payment overseas, this complaint is about First Direct.The starting point here is that First Direct should follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. Here, Mr B gave it instructions to make a faster payment of just 
over £10000 to a specific account elsewhere. He wanted to send this money via the faster 
payment system because he wanted it to reach the recipients account the same day.
I can see Mr B went to the trouble of contacting First Direct the day before he made his 
faster payment request. It assisted him in setting up the new beneficiary. But there was no 
discussion regarding the timescales involved in making a faster payment. So, theres no 
evidence that First Direct created an expectation during that call as to when a faster 
payment would credit the receiving account. And theres no evidence that it was aware of the 
urgency of this payment.
Ive seen the terms and conditions which apply to Mr Bs account. They set out a payment 
timetable table, which states that money sent by will reach its destination immediately 
providing the payment instruction is carried out before 11:45pm that working day. But the 
terms go on to state although most payments will reach their destination within the times set 
out in the tablesometimes it might take longer to complete all the relevant checks. So, 
First direct Doesnt guarantee that a faster payment will credit the receiving account 
immediately.
Ive seen evidence that First Direct captured Mr Bs faster payment instruction on its system 
at 11:57 on 17 December 2019 and I can see from Mr Bs bank statements that the funds 
show as having left his account the same day. 
First direct said there was a small delay in Mr Bs payment leaving the bank due to it being 
held for a fraud check. Having considered Mr Bs bank statements for the six months 
preceding this payment I can see it was unusual for him to make a payment of this amount. 
So, its unsurprising that his payment triggered a fraud check.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may subject payments to a security check  as happened here. 
This is clearly set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account. And I cant fairly criticise 
First Direct or conclude it acted unfairly, or against the account terms, in holding Mr Bs 
payment for a fraud check in these circumstances. 
Even notwithstanding the small delay while Mr Bs payment was held, Ive seen evidence 
that his funds were released at 9 pm n 17 December 2019. First Direct says they were then 
sent on Mr Bs behalf and credited the receiving account at 9:30pm the same day. Its shown 
our service evidence that corroborates this. But Mr B says the intermediary bank told him the 
funds didnt credit the recipients account until two days later.
I appreciate that Mr B thinks First Direct didnt follow the Faster Payment guidelines but, 
based on the evidence Ive considered, I cant agree. I say this because Im satisfied the 
funds Mr B sent reached the receiving account the same day. Im also persuaded First Direct 
correctly processed his faster payment in accordance with his instructions. So, I cant see 
there has been any failing or error here by First Direct. It follows that I dont require it to 
compensate Mr B for his loss.
I recognise what Mr B says about when he feels this payment arrived at its intended 
destination. And I dont doubt that happened. But its most likely that any delay in the 
payment crediting the recipients account was due to additional checks, such as fraud 
checks, that may have been made by the receiving bank. This would be unsurprising given 
the large sum Mr B was transferring. I can see that First Direct explained to Mr B that regulations allow all banks to make further 
checks on payments if they wish to do so. Based on what Ive seen, it seems likely that 
additional checks were undertaken after Mrs Bs payment left his First Direct account. I 
appreciate that this caused a delay, which impacted on Mr B. But that wasnt caused by 
anything First Direct did. So, delay isnt something I can fairly hold First Direct responsible 
for. 
Finally, I understand that Mr B is unhappy with how First Direct handled his complaint. 
However, our service doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling because its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think First Direct hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be 
able to uphold that element of his concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. 
So, I comment any further on this issue.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with First Direct informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr B 
any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman