DRN-3339429
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave in relation to 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, which was transferred to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
At the time Portal gave its advice it was operating under a different name. But, as it is now 
known as Portal I shall only use that name in this report.
Professional representatives helped Mr C to bring his complaint. But, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Cs.
What happened
Mr C contacted Portal after seeing an advert on social media about releasing funds from his 
pension at age 55. 
In September 2017 Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. Portal recorded that:
Mr C was 55, married with two adult children.
He lived in a rented property.
He worked full time.
He paid around £35 a month to pay for an overdraft of around £700.
He had outstanding loans of around £10,000 which he was repaying at a cost of 
£240 a month.
He was paying £80 a month to pay off a credit card balance of £1,800. 
He had a debt management arrangement of £7,000 which he was paying off at £100 
a month.
He had a disposable income of £50 a month.
He was currently off work sick and took tablets for an illness. Portal recorded that 
Mr C was vulnerable.
Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderately adventurous. It also produced a pension transfer value analysis report which 
included cashflow models comparing how an alternative pension plan was likely to perform 
against the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme.
On 26 September 2017 Portal wrote to Mr C. It said its recommendation was that he should 
not transfer away from his DB scheme. It said that was because a new pension plan was 
unlikely to grow at the required rate to match the benefits of his existing DB scheme and he 
would lose guaranteed benefits.
Portals letter went on to say that if he wanted to go ahead with the transfer, against its 
advice, that would be something it could help him with. But in order to arrange that it would 
treat him as an insistent client. It gave an overview of the benefit from his current DB 
scheme, including that it had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £168,319 from 
which he could take £42,079 as tax free cash (TFC). It included an options form which gave 
Mr C two choices:
To disregard Portals advice and continue with the transfer from the DB scheme as 
an insistent client.
To accept its recommendation and remain in his employers DB scheme.
The letter asked Mr C to tick the box next to his preferred choice. The box next to the first 
option  not to accept Portals advice  said:
I understand your recommendation to leave my [DB] scheme where it is. However, I want 
you to continue reviewing my pension, setting up a flexi-access drawdown plan so that I can 
release £42,079 tax-free cash and reinvest the remaining £126,240.
The letter said that if Mr C chose the first option he would also need to sign the enclosed 
insistent client form. That form set out that Mr C understood that:
A new pension plan was unlikely to achieve the growth rate required of 5.50%
He was aware that the critical yield [the yearly growth rate to match the benefits of 
the DB scheme, assuming Mr C took a lump sum tax free cash, if he were to buy an 
annuity] was 10.6%.
He would be giving up the option of a tax free lump sum of £75,411 and a yearly 
pension of £11,312 at age 67.
The DB scheme would also allow him the option of taking a lump sum of £24,943 and 
a yearly pension of £15,483 at age 67. A new plan would need to grow by 12.1% a 
year to match that.
If he chose to transfer out of the DB scheme he could take tax free cash (TFC) of 
£42,079 immediately and invest the remaining balance until his retirement age of 67. 
That option would give him a yearly income, in the form of an annuity, of £7,070.
He understood that Portals recommendation was not to transfer from his DB scheme 
and if he did so Portal would treat him as an insistent client.
The insistent client form also asked Mr C to explain in his own words why he wanted to go 
against Portals recommendation and continue with the transfer from his DB scheme.
Two days later (28 September 2017) Mr C signed the options and insistent client forms. He 
said he wanted to continue with the transfer. He wrote that his reason for doing so was debt 
consolidation.
.
After Mr C returned those forms Portal spoke with him on the phone. It said, amongst other 
things, that it wanted to make sure he was aware of the advice that we gave. Mr C said that 
he was aware and that it was clear he would be going against Portals advice and it would be 
treating him as an insistent client. Portal asked him if he understood the approximate level of 
the guaranteed income he would be giving up. Mr C replied no, I'm not sure. Portal told him 
that at age 67 his DB scheme could pay him an income of £15,483 a year, as well as TFC of 
£24,943. It told him that would be lost if he took TFC now of around £42,000. It asked if he 
was comfortable giving up these benefits and he said that he was. He said he did have an 
idea of what he was giving up as he had looked at it yeh. Portal asked him if it was more 
important to him to pay off his debts at that time and he said that it was. Portal said it would 
send him a report that would highlight its advice and the documents for him to continue with 
the release of benefits. It said as long as he remained comfortable with that he should sign 
and return the forms and it would get things moving so that he received his TFC and it could 
reinvest the balance.On 10 October 2017 Portal sent Mr C a 26 page pension transfer suitability report. The two 
page cover letter said:
Having considered your current situation and what you would like to achieve, we are 
delighted to recommend:
Transferring your pension to [a named SIPP provider] pension plan.
If you agree with this recommendation and instruct us to act on it:
You will receive your tax-free lump sum of £42,079.
The letter went on to say that if Mr C agreed with Portals recommendation then he should 
return the forms sent with the suitability report as quickly as possible.
Amongst other things the suitability report said that while its advice was that Mr C should not 
transfer out of the DB scheme it could arrange that for him on an insistent client basis. It said 
he could receive £42,079 TFC and that by doing so he could tackle a debt, go on holiday 
and put into your savings. It said a new pension plan was unlikely to grow at a suitable rate 
to match the benefits from his DB scheme. It went through some of the things Mr C would be 
giving up by transferring out of his DB scheme. Portal said its fees for arranging the transfer 
were £9,915.99. It added that it would charge a 1% a year fee for advice and that the SIPP 
provider would also apply a charge. It said the CETV from his DB fund quote had expired 
and that the scheme administrators might charge a fee for providing a new transfer value. It 
repeated that it had advised Mr C not to transfer out of the DB scheme but said that as hed 
decided to go against its advice it recommended the named SIPP and explained why it was 
making that recommendation. 
Mr C signed the transfer forms three days later. But it wasnt until April 2018 when the SIPP 
provider confirmed that it had paid Mr C TFC of £35,935 from a total transfer value of 
£143,740.
In December 2020 Mr C complained to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because, amongst other things, he said:
Portal didnt act in line with the regulator's principles or guidance.
Portals fee was conditional on the transfer going ahead so it was in its interest to 
recommend the transfer. 
Portals advice was founded on the transfer going ahead and so wasnt truly 
independent.
Portal didn't act in Mr Cs best interests 
Portal created a conflict of interest.
Portals advice from the outset was based on a large sum of cash being available to 
Mr C, which led towards a decision to transfer without giving proper advice.
Portals advice didnt consider other methods of Mr C paying off debts.
The advice was unclear.
Portal didnt provide its suitability report until after Mr C had decided to go ahead with 
the transfer and had signed the insistent client form.
Portal didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said, amongst other things:
Portals initial assessment and recommendation was for Mr C not to transfer out of 
his DB scheme. Its fee was conditional on the transfer going ahead but its recommendation was not 
to transfer, which showed that it made its recommendation in Mr Cs best interests.
Mr C decided to go against its recommendation and confirmed he did want to transfer 
out of his DB scheme. 
Portal treated Mr C fairly at all times and acted in line with his objectives and the 
regulator's principles and guidance 
Portals suitability report set out its fees and said those would be deducted from the 
residual fund.
It didnt believe there was any conflict of interest, Mr Cs objectives were clear and its 
recommendation was not to transfer from his DB scheme. 
Mr C had spoken with Portal on the phone and it had confirmed the guarantees he 
would be giving up by transferring.
it processed the transfer on Mr Cs confirmation that he was going against Portals 
advice and that he had acknowledged the risks he was taking in doing so. 
Portal's suitability report said that Mr C would be better off staying in his DB scheme.
Portal advised Mr C to read its suitability report carefully. It clearly explained that 
Mr C had decided to go against its recommendation and if he had any questions to 
contact Portal with those. 
Portal acted in line with the regulators guidance by advising Mr C not to transfer from 
the DB scheme but Mr C was anxious to clear his debts and had no other way to 
raise the funds.
If Mr C had chosen to stay in the DB scheme then it wouldnt have sent the suitability 
report.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. He said, amongst other things:
Portal presented various documents and forms to sign in order to complete the 
pension transfer without fully explaining them. 
He felt Portal rushed the whole process without helping him to understand it. 
He didnt go against Portals recommendation. He was in debt at the time and didnt 
have alternative funds. Portal gave him the opportunity to transfer his pension and 
take TFC to cover his debts. He went along with that advice and Portal didnt make 
him aware of the loss of benefits as a result. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She recommended the complaint be 
upheld. Amongst other things she said:
Portal didnt follow the regulators guidance in the insistent client process.
Portal advised Mr C not to transfer out of the DB scheme but made it to easy for him 
to go against that recommendation.
Mr C told Portal in a phone call that he didnt know what benefits he would be giving 
up. He told it he was comfortable transferring his pension without giving any reason 
why he felt the guaranteed benefits weren't important to him. The investigator said 
this reinforced her view that Mr C didnt fully understand the benefits he would be 
giving up by transferring.
The benefits of the DB scheme weren't limited to the guaranteed sums Portal 
referred but Portal didnt assess these.
The evidence doesn't show that Portal made any enquiries as to how urgent it was 
for Mr C to pay off debts. 
Portal didnt provide Mr C with advice about debt counselling or loan restructuring.
Portal didnt make enquiries of the DB scheme to see if Mr C could take his benefits 
early.Portal didn't do enough to outline the risks to Mr C of transferring from the DB 
scheme.
Mr C wasnt in a position to take risks with his pension as he had no other pension 
provision.
Accessing his pension benefits should have been a last resort.
While Portal's suitability report referenced the DB scheme benefits it also made a 
recommendation to transfer out of it.
The DB scheme had an attractive pension for Mr Cs wife in the event of his death 
and Portal should have advised Mr C clearly not to transfer out of the scheme.
Our investigator believed that if Mr C had been given suitable advice he wouldnt 
have transferred out of the scheme.
She said Portal should return Mr C to the position he would have been in but for its 
advice. 
Portal should pay Mr C £250 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Portal disagreed, it said:
It had made Mr C aware of the benefits he would lose by transferring out of the DB 
scheme and these were set out in its suitability report.
The regulator's guidance our investigator had referred to was published after Portal 
gave Mr C advice and so didnt apply at the time. But Portal did get Mr C to write in 
his own words why he wished to transfer out of the DB scheme.
Its letter of 26 September 2017 advised Mr C not to transfer out of the scheme.
It had provided Mr C with the information he needed to make an informed decision.
Mr C had confirmed it was clear to him that he was going against Portals advice in 
transferring out of the scheme.
Mr C was aware of what he would be giving up but said that paying off debts was 
more important to him. 
Its suitability report had advised Mr C on numerous occasions not to transfer out of 
his DB scheme.
Mr C had every option to leave his DB pension in place. Portal did give him the 
choice to transfer but that was to ensure he was aware of all the options available to 
him.
Mr Cs debts were causing him severe distress and Portal noted he was taking 
medication for an illness. 
While Mr C didnt have previous investment experience it accurately established his 
attitude to risk. 
Portal consistently advised Mr C against transferring out of the DB scheme. But he 
chose to disregard its recommendation.
The DB scheme did have spousal death benefits but Mr C went against Portals 
recommendation not to transfer out of the scheme.
In the event of Mr Cs death his beneficiaries would receive 100% of his remaining 
pension fund from the SIPP. 
Mr C went against its advice and it proceeded on an insistent client basis.
Portal advised Mr C several times not to transfer out of his DB scheme and explained 
why but Mr C made an informed choice to go against that advice on an insistent 
client basis.
The investigator replied. She said while the regulator introduced the insistent client rules 
shed referred to after Portal gave its advice, that was simply reminding advising businesses 
of their existing obligations. She agreed that some of Portals documents did highlight the 
guarantees of Mr Cs DB scheme and that Portal had treated Mr C as an insistent client but Portal still made a transfer recommendation. Also while Mr Cs answers to his attitude to risk 
questions could be interpreted as his willingness to accept a high degree of loss he had no 
investment experience and no capacity to absorb losses. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and Portal have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying to it. 
And I've carefully considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address 
each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart 
of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
At the time of Portals advice Mr C was an active member of his DB scheme. This meant 
that, in order to leave it he had to tell the DB scheme administrators that he wanted to opt-
out rather than transfer. But as both Portal and Mr C have referred to transferring out of the 
scheme (rather than opting out of it), Ive used the same wording in this report. So where I 
refer to Mr C transferring out of the scheme that should be read as meaning to opt-out of it 
and transfer the associated benefits. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulators position 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
In February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what steps it 
expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, 
which it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that he/she is acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a 
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected Portal to have been aware of 
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
Did Portal fairly treat Mr C as an insistent client?
Portal said that, as Mr C wanted to go against its advice and transfer out of the DB scheme it 
treated him as an insistent client and was fully compliant with the FCAs guidance and 
principles when doing so.
Ive looked carefully at Portals decision to treat Mr C as insistent, particularly in respect of 
the regulators position, to see whether I think Portal acted fairly.
Portals recommendation, both in its letter of 26 September 2017 and in its later suitability 
report was that Mr C should not transfer out of his DB scheme. But its 26 September 2017 
letter which did not, in my view, provide full and complete advice, as it went on to say that 
Mr C could transfer out of the scheme if he wanted to and it could help him to do that.
So, Portal presented the possibility of transferring out of the scheme on an insistent client 
basis, alongside the basic recommendation not to transfer out of the scheme. And I think this 
made it far too easy for Mr C to simply decide that it was a suitable alternative to staying in 
the scheme, when Portal was aware that a decision to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
not in his best interests. Had it not given him that option at that time, instead providing the 
suitability report setting out its advice in its entirety, then it would have placed the onus on 
Mr C to contact Portal again to find out what he needed to do if he did genuinely insist on 
going against Portals recommendation and intended to transfer out of the scheme.
Further Portal didn't produce its suitability report until after Mr C had told it he wanted to be 
treated as an insistent client. But its letter of 26 September 2017 told him that by transferring 
out of the scheme he could enjoy a TFC sum of £42,079 immediately and he could reinvest 
the remaining pension pot. Similarly, the enclosed insistent client form summarised both the 
benefits he could expect to lose but also what he could possibly gain from transferring out of 
the DB scheme. But it presented that information to him in a raw state, that is without the 
analysis contained within its suitability report. I find that this undermined the process. That's 
because I don't see how Portal could expect Mr C to make an informed decision about going 
against its recommendation when it hadn't given him all the information he needed in order 
to make that decision. That is, it gave him some bare-bones information and expected him to 
make a determination that could start him down the road of the insistent client process 
without giving him enough detail to reasonably make that decision.Ive noted that, after Mr C returned the insistent client form, Portal spoke with him to confirm 
he knew what benefits he was giving up by acting as an insistent client and transferring out 
of his DB scheme. Its notable that when Portal first asked Mr C if he knew what he was 
giving up he said he wasnt sure. And it was only after Portal had summarised some of the 
benefits hed be giving up that he said hed looked at it. Having listen to the call its certainly 
not convincing that Mr C knew what benefits hed be giving up. 
Further, Portal only provided a snapshot of what Mr C could potentially be losing. For 
example it told him hed be giving up a potential income of £15,483 a year together with TFC 
of £24,943. But that was only one potential option, another would have been for Mr C to take 
TFC of £74,411 alongside a yearly income of £11,312. But Portal didnt refer to this. And it 
didnt mention any of the other benefits that the DB scheme offered, such as a yearly 
pension for his wife if he were to die. It also doesnt seem to have explored whether Mr C 
couldve accessed his scheme at the time (as he was already aged 55) instead of 
transferring out. This could have provided Mr C with the sum he wanted to clear his most 
pressing debts. So its not clear that Mr C was aware of what hed be giving up at that time 
or what alternatives were available to him. 
Also, when the DB scheme administrators had given Portal information about the likely 
benefits available from the scheme, it told Portal that the sum was estimated only and wasn't 
guaranteed. It said that Mr C would have to ask for another quote at the time he decided to 
transfer and that sum would be guaranteed for three months. But Portal didnt mention this 
possibility during their conversation, and, in the end, the CETV dropped by some £24,590 by 
the time the transfer was completed. But I dont think Portal made this potential drop in value 
clear to Mr C before starting him down the insistent client route. And I believe this is 
something that, in order for Portal to give Mr C information that was full, clear and not 
misleading, needed to be clearly brought to his attention. But I havent seen evidence that 
was the case when it spoke with Mr C. 
At that time Portal hadn't provided Mr C with its suitability report, it had only sent him a letter 
with limited information. And, while maintaining that its advice was not to transfer out of the 
scheme, Portal told him it could make the transfer happen anyway if that was what he 
wanted. But at that time it hadnt given Mr C details about its proposed reinvestment 
strategy. It said that, as long as he remained comfortable with the transfer, then all he 
needed to do was to complete and sign the forms so he could go ahead with it. In other 
words the call ended with it being a nailed on done deal that Mr C was going ahead with the 
transfer, even though, at that point Portal hadnt told him what he was transferring to.
A much clearer process would have been for Portal to provide its advice as a whole, taking 
into account Mr Cs objectives and attitude to risk. That advice should have considered the 
overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB scheme together with the choice of 
pension and Mr Cs desire to take his TFC. Portal should then have clearly set out in one 
document why transferring out of the scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Instead, it first 
gave Mr C advice not to go ahead with the transfer  while at the same time dangling the 
possibility of a large lump sum to be taken imminently. It was only later that it gave him 
information about the proposed alternatives in its suitability report, which was after Mr C had 
already said he wanted to transfer out of the scheme.
It follows that I dont think Portal communicated with Mr C in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. And I dont believe Portal gave him all the facts with which to make an 
informed decision about whether or not he wanted to proceed on an insistent client basis.
Ive noted that Mr C told Portal  both over the phone and in writing  that he wanted to go 
against its advice and for it to treat him as an insistent client so that he could pay off debts. It appears that was important to Mr C. And Portal has commented that Mr Cs debts were 
contributing to his ill-health. But transferring out of the DB scheme and using the TFC was 
only one way to address this. And I've seen no compelling evidence, either in its phone call 
with him or in its suitability report that Portal sought to explore with Mr C what the relevant 
benefits of the alternatives to transferring out of the DB scheme were. For example Portal 
could have referred Mr C back to a debt charity whose services he'd used previously and to 
whom he was paying off a loan. Portals fact-find indicates that Mr Cs last debt management 
arrangement with that charity was sorted out three years earlier. And the amount owed 
overall was relatively small and repayments still affordable. So it seems likely that further 
debt consolidation could have made Mr Cs debts more manageable. I've noted that Portal 
recorded that Mr C had told it that he didnt wish to take on further borrowing or pay 
additional interest, but debt consolidation wouldnt have meant taking on extra loans/paying 
more interest, instead it was likely to reduce it overall. But I can't see that Portal brought this 
to Mr Cs attention.
Portals role was to find out what Mr Cs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to do what he wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for 
doing so with the implications of taking those actions with him. But I've seen no evidence of 
such a challenge even though that was in Mr Cs best interests. 
And in any event, Im not necessarily persuaded that Mr C absolutely needed to pay off his 
debts at that time. While I can understand that being debt free was an attractive prospect to 
Mr C, it seems that the debts he had were well managed and that he was making the 
required repayments. And the benefits of not having to repay debts in the short-term had to 
be offset against potentially being thousands of pounds a year worse off in retirement, at a 
time when he would no longer be working and his only other income would be his state 
pension. So, had Portal tested this objective further, Mr C might have seen the option of 
clearing his debts as something that might benefit him in the short-term but that certainly 
wasnt worth giving up a guaranteed pension for. But, I dont think Portal fully explored what 
Mr Cs wants and needs were. And I dont think it met its obligations to challenge Mr Cs 
objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
Portals suitability report did repeat that its recommendation was that Mr C should not 
transfer out of his DB scheme and it did highlight some of the risks and set out some of the 
benefits hed be giving up by doing so. But it also included a recommendation to transfer out 
of the scheme. And it sent its 26 page suitability report alongside a two page cover letter. I 
can understand that Mr C most likely felt that the cover letter was a summary of the contents 
of the suitability report. The cover letter says:
Having considered your current situation and what you would like to achieve, we are 
delighted to recommend:
Transferring your pension to an [named SIPP] pension plan.
If you agree with this recommendation and instruct us to act on it:
You will receive your tax-free lump sum of £42,079.
And it goes on to explain what Mr C needed to do, for example by completing forms, in order 
to make that happen. It also encouraged him to speak to his current employer to opt-out of 
the DB scheme as quickly as possible. So all the information in that cover letter gives the 
impression that Portal was recommending that Mr C should transfer out of his DB scheme. 
So I don't think its advice was unambiguous. And I don't think it can fairly rely on its 
recommendation in its suitability report for Mr C not to transfer. Thats because its 
recommendation relied on an estimated figure that wasn't guaranteed. Also it was followed up immediately with information about how Mr C could proceed anyway. And that he should 
act as quickly as possible to make the transfer happen. I think that sent mixed messages 
about what its genuine recommendation was. And the suitability report, while saying that a 
transfer wasnt recommended, went on to recommend a transfer to the SIPP.
So, as Ive set out above, I think there were flaws in Portals advice process which meant it 
didnt fully and accurately inform Mr C about his position. On balance, given these failings, I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the process Portal followed meant that 
its fair to truly regard Mr C as an insistent client. So I don't think it acted in his best interest.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows pension pots like Mr Cs DB 
scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But Mr Cs chosen path 
was to give up that income in retirement for a shorter-term solution, rather than long-term 
planning. But Portal didn't challenge Mr Cs reasons for doing that. And I don't think that 
applying an insistent client label to someone when they express that their preference is not 
to follow advice, is the same as applying the rigorous process of arriving at a fair 
determination of who an insistent client really is.
It follows that I dont think Portal did enough to fully advise Mr C of his options before it 
showed him down the insistent client road. So I dont think it treated him fairly. 
I've also considered whats likely to have happened if Portal's advice not to transfer had 
been more robust and had followed a more effective process. And, had that been the case, I 
don't think Mr C would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme. I say this 
because Mr C had no investment experience and owing to his ill-health Portal had recorded 
that Mr C was vulnerable. So if Portal had clearly presented that it wasnt in Mr Cs best 
interest to transfer out of his DB scheme and contrasted the short-term benefits of doings so 
against the loss of income and benefits in retirement, as well as exploring alternatives with 
him such as debt restructuring or the possibility of taking his DB scheme benefits early, I 
think hed have heeded Portals advice not to transfer. It follows that, if Portal had provided 
him with clearer advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. 
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as Portals 
advice has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr C, I think its fair that it pays 
him £250 compensation.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal Financial Services LLP to put Mr C, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr C would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, while Mr C has taken his TFC he has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do 
so at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Portal should also pay Mr C £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman