DRN-2820724
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a mortgage he holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. He is unhappy 
that he hasnt been offered compensation due to a mistake Barclays made when fixing a 
problem with the administration of a cash payment he made to the mortgage in the autumn 
of 2020. There was a delay in the payment being applied to the mortgage and when the 
correction was applied, the payment wasnt back-dated to the correct date and just over £22 
of the £6,000 paid was recorded as an overpayment rather than a partial redemption.
In addition, Mrs S said the member of staff he spoke to about the payment being allocated 
incorrectly was rude to him. Furthermore, Mr S wants Barclays to agree to stop certain 
members of its complaints team dealing with his complaints  he believes they are harassing 
in nature and totally incompetent. Mr S says that by not agreeing to this request, Barclays is 
not respecting his wishes.
Mr S has said he wants £1,500 compensation for the poor service Barclays has provided 
him with.
What happened
In 2020 Mr S complained about a cash payment hed made not being allocated to his 
account. Barclays confirmed that whilst the payment hadnt been allocated when it should 
have been, it had been by the time the complaint was responded to (a few weeks later) and 
it had been applied as at the date Mr S had made the payment in August 2020. He was told 
about the timescales for crediting payments made in cash (5 working days), and it 
acknowledged it hadnt met that timescale on the most recent payment and some earlier 
ones. He was also told about alternative payment methods that would resolve his concerns. 
Barclays paid Mr S compensation for its error.
In October 2020 Mr S made a further cash payment to his mortgage account. He made it at 
the end of October so that it was credited before the 1 November 2020 reset of the 
overpayment allowance. The payment was processed on 20 November 2020, but it was 
applied to the account as at that date. Mr S complained and Barclays upheld the complaint  
it said it would backdate the payment and it paid Mr S £250 compensation for the error. 
Unfortunately, when the payment was backdated, a further error occurred  the payment 
was backdated to 3 November rather than 30 October. Mr S raised a new complaint about 
that error and Barclays corrected the date the payment was applied to the account. 
In the middle of November 2020 Barclays responded to Mr S concerns about various 
members of their staff in the complaints department being rude to him. It said it had listened 
to a number of calls with various members of staff and it had no concerns about their 
content. 
Mr S called Barclays again at the beginning of December 2020. When he spoke to a 
member of staff in the mortgage department it was confirmed that the October payment had 
been backdated, but it was noticed that a small amount of the payment had been credited as 
an overpayment, rather than a capital reduction. The member of staff processed the 
correction about the small amount of the payment being credited as an overpayment. The 
overpayment allowance for the mortgage year from 1 November 2020 was confirmed. The 
conversation then turned to Mr S wanting compensation for the error of the payment being 
backdated to 3 November rather than 30 October. Mr S was given factual information about 
the complaints hed raised and was told he would need to speak to the complaints team 
about his complaints. Mr S continued to pursue the discussion about the existing complaints 
and when the member of staff wasnt able to provide him with the responses he wanted, he 
became frustrated. This resulted in him wanting to know the member of staffs employee 
number and her full name so that he could complain about her. She declined to provide her 
staff number or her surname. Mr S subsequently raised a complaint about the member of 
staff giving him incorrect information and being rude to him.
Mr S also complained to Barclays again about members of its staff on the complaints team 
bullying/harassing him. He said they were rude and arrogant. He also expressed the 
opinion that they made mistakes and didnt take accountability for system faults. He said that 
team didnt deal with complaints in a fair and objective way and he considered the majority of 
the team was incompetent and shouldnt be dealing with customers as they didnt 
understand proper customer service. Mr S said that he would no longer deal with certain 
individuals from the complaints team, or anyone else in the organisation who behaved rudely 
with customers. He said the individuals shouted and behaved aggressively; treating him with 
total disrespect. 
Barclays responded to Mr S complaint. It said the member of staff Mr S had asked to 
provide her full name should have done so. It said it would provide her with feedback. It also 
said that it had reviewed the service of its complaints team (members of which Mr S didnt 
want to deal with going forward), but it felt it had handled his previous complaints correctly 
and reached a fair outcome. 
Mr S responded to this letter and reiterated that he had requested that five individuals from 
the complaints team didnt deal with his cases in the future. This was because the members 
of staff were rude, arrogant and harassing! In addition, he complained that the letter didnt 
address the issue of him being compensated for the mortgage payment of 30 October 2020 
being incorrectly backdated. It also didnt deal with the matter of its member of staff providing 
him with incorrect information. He wanted to know how he would benefit from the mistake. 
Barclays wrote to Mr S again two days later. It apologised for date of the mortgage payment 
having not been addressed in the earlier response. It said the omission had occurred as a 
result of human error. However, Barclays considered Mr S would have known the correct 
position, given the explanation itd given to him in September 2020. It confirmed that cash 
payments were at that time taking longer than usual to be credited to accounts, but they 
would always be backdated when they were processed. Barclays didnt consider 
compensation was appropriate for the delay. This was because there was no financial 
impact on Mr S and it considered rectifying the mistake, apologising and providing feedback 
to ensure the member of staff learned from the event was enough. In relation to Mr S 
request not to deal with certain members of staff, it said that it hadnt seen any evidence of 
wrongdoing on their part. As such, it was Mr S choice whether to deal with them going 
forward.
Mr S remained unhappy with Barclays responses and confirmed to it he would refer his 
concerns to this service. He repeated that he would no longer deal with certain individuals 
from the complaints team, or anyone else in the organisation who behaved rudely with 
customers. Barclays acknowledged Mr S further comments, but didnt add anything further 
to its earlier comments. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
She didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that whilst the member of staff hed spoken to in December 2020 should have given him her surname, the apology 
Barclays had made was sufficient and it didnt need to do any more. In relation to the 
payment being credited incorrectly, she thought Mr S would have been aware of how cash 
payments would be processed and the timescales that would be involved. Given he hadnt 
suffered any financial detriment from the credit initially being backdated incorrectly, she 
wasnt persuaded compensation was due. She highlighted that Barclays had explained 
alternate methods by which Mr S could make his additional payments to the mortgage, 
which would avoid any such issues happening again. 
Our investigator also explained that this service doesnt have the power to direct a financial 
business on how to undertake its day to day operations. As such, we wouldnt interfere with 
how Barclays arranged its complaint handling function or how Mr S calls would be directed. 
The investigators opinion was rejected by Mr S. He said this was because Barclays was still 
making the same mistake  hed made another cash payment recently and it hadnt been 
credited to his account 10 days later. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the 
complaint should be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said he wants Barclays to ensure that he doesnt have to deal with various 
members of its complaints team and the member of the mortgage team he spoke to in 
December 2020. As our investigator explained, this service deals with individual complaints 
about regulated activities. We dont have the authority to tell a business about how it should 
organise its departments or procedures  including in what department and to which 
individual any future queries or complaints raised by Mr S are dealt with. 
It is clear that Barclays made mistakes in relation to Mr S October 2020 additional payment 
and it isnt the first time hes experienced such problems. However, Barclays explained the 
process over a month before the October 2020 payment and, while I can understand a 
further mistake would have been irritating, I am satisfied he knew that he wouldnt be 
disadvantaged financially, and that Barclays would fix the problem. Mr S was also aware 
when he decided to make the cash payment that there could be potential issues with the 
manual payment, and there were other methods of him making the payment, which would be 
automated and credited immediately. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that Barclays fixing 
the problem and apologising for the error was enough.
I have listened to the call Mr S had with the member of Barclays staff in December 2020. 
Individuals will always have their own perceptions of discussions that take place. However, 
in this case, I am not persuaded that the Barclays member of staff was rude to Mr S or trying 
to be unhelpful. He clearly wanted to discuss matters that she couldnt discuss (and rightly 
told him where to direct his questions) or didnt think it was appropriate for her to do so  that 
clearly frustrated Mr S. That said, while I dont consider she was wrong not to provide Mr S 
with her employee number as that is her personal information, as Barclays has said, she 
should have provided him with her surname. However, the lack of a surname didnt cause 
Mr S any difficulties in raising his complaint about her. Barclays has apologised for the 
omission by its member of staff and provided feedback to prevent another such incident, and 
I dont consider it needs to do anything further.
Overall, I am satisfied that Barclays has rectified any errors made and I think the apologies it 
has offered are sufficient. I dont consider any further compensation needs to be paid.  My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
20 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman