DRN-4414002
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was misled into taking out a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) to acquire a new car.
What happened
Mr M acquired a new car in February 2023, financed by a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. The cash price of the car was £76,053.98. The duration of the agreement was 48 
months, and it involved Mr M having to make an advance payment of £5,493.39, then 47 
monthly repayments of £1,035.00. There was then an optional final repayment of £36,397.41 
Mr M would need to pay if he chose to purchase the car.
The car acquired was a newer make and model of a car that Mr M previously had. Mr M said 
he spoke to the supplying dealership before he acquired the car and expressed that he 
wanted all the same features as his previous car. The supplying dealership later emailed Mr 
M and said,
Thank you for the chat on the phone!... I have sourced for you in Stock  (Coming through 
for March 2023) a Brand New completely matching the specification you require.
Mr M also said he was sent a specification of the car, which, on face value, he said it looked 
like it met his request. 
On the same day Mr M collected his car, he noticed features that were missing which he 
believed should have been supplied with it. The features varied from things such as a front 
facing camera, rear sunblinds, to software driving aids such as a parking assistant mode, 
among other things.
Mr M contacted the supplying dealership to discuss his options and explain the features that 
were missing.
It later became transparent that the features which Mr M had on his previous car were part of 
packages that could be purchased. But, with the new car being acquired, the packages and 
the features within them had been revised. And so, for Mr M to have had all the features he 
required, the car would have needed to include the same packages, including the relevant 
additional plus packages. Mr M believed the supplying dealership knowingly did not disclose 
or did not have knowledge to advise that there were plus packages that needed to be 
applied to the car to include all the features he previously had.
Mr M has said some of the features were of particular importance to him. One of those was 
the front facing camera, as he said he regularly parked in an undercroft carpark, which was 
built many years ago and not designed for larger cars. And as such, the front facing camera 
was useful manoeuvring through the tight pathways leading up to where he parked the car, 
and he said it reduced the chances of him damaging his car.
Mr M also said that the rear sunblinds were also important to him as his young children 
often travelled with him on long journeys and it helped them to sleep, undisturbed by 
sunlight.
Mr M also said he wasnt building the car through the manufacturers website, but rather 
relying on the information the supplying dealership were providing him, and advising him of 
any features that were missing from his previous model.
The supplying dealership as a gesture of goodwill, offered a five-year service plan and a 
three-year tyre insurance cover, which were put in place.
Mr M later complained to BMWFS and they provided their final response to him. They said 
the supplying dealership confirmed they did not discuss the content of the specification 
packages with Mr M, but BMWFS recognised they should have. In summary, BMWFS were 
unable to uphold Mr Ms complaint as the supplying dealership offered a gesture of goodwill 
which Mr M accepted, so they considered this matter closed.
Mr M, unhappy with BMWFS response, referred his complaint to our service. Mr M felt he is 
paying a large monthly sum for a car that does not meet his needs. He said he feels trapped 
as he must continue to make the repayments, or his credit rating would be impacted. Mr M 
said his preference would be to unwind the agreement, which would then allow him to get a 
car that would better suit his requirements.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In summary, he said from the evidence provided, he 
believed Mr M only proceeded to enter into the agreement based on the understanding that 
the car that was being supplied matched the specification of his previous car. And that, had 
Mr M known specific features were not included in the car, he would not have proceeded to 
enter into the agreement. Our investigator went on to say that Mr M only likely accepted the 
gesture of goodwill from the supplying dealership after exhausting any process to remedy 
the situation with them. He also said that it didnt fairly put Mr M back into a similar position  
as far as is reasonably practicable  that he would have been in had he been told the correct 
information from the outset. Our investigator then went on to breakdown what he directed 
BMWFS to do to put things right.
Disappointingly, BMWFS didnt respond to the investigators view. And so, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that, under certain 
circumstances, finance providers are liable for what they say and for what is said by a credit 
broker or supplier before the consumer takes out the credit agreement.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the acquiring of a car. The company that sold 
the car was the dealership. I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was set 
up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between BMWFS and the dealership and that 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act therefore applies.Mr M complains he was misled into taking out a finance agreement with BMWFS due to 
features he was told were present on the car he acquired. So Ive considered if a 
misrepresentation occurred here.
I would consider a misrepresentation to have taken place if Mr M was told a false statement 
of fact that induced him into entering into the agreement he otherwise would not have. So 
ultimately, what I need to firstly consider is whether Mr M was told that the car he was going 
to acquire had all the features he thought it would have.
Mr M says he had a conversation with the supplying dealership about his requirements. He 
says he explained his previous car was to a very high specification, and as such, he says he 
made it clear to the dealership that he wanted all features maintained within the new car. On 
the other hand, the supplying dealership has told BMWFS that no conversation took place 
specifically outlining the contents of the packages supplied with the car. Ive also noted the 
email the supplying dealership sent Mr M following their conversation.
Thank you for a chat suggests a conversation about acquiring a new car took place and 
goes someway to corroborate Mr Ms version of events. Mr M says he contacted the 
supplying dealership initially following a marketing email he received and enquired about 
taking out another agreement with them. So, I think it is likely a conversation took place and I 
think it is a logical thing to have happened following Mr M contacting the dealership. But that 
in itself doesnt persuade me that a conversation specifically took place about the 
specification of the car.
However, the email from the supplying dealership goes on to say, completely matching 
the specification you require.. This does suggest to me that a conversation did take place 
about the specifications of his previous car and the requirements for his new car. 
Thinking about all of this, I find Mr Ms testimony about what happened in his conversations 
with the supplying dealership to be persuasive. It follows that I think its most likely Mr M was 
told that the specification of the car completely matched the one he previously had. 
I accept that the supplying dealership might not have specifically broken down the contents 
of the packages. But, considering the sales process involved Mr M discussing his 
requirements with a sales representative at the supplying dealership, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr M to rely on the information given to him. Mr M wasnt to know that the 
contents of each package had been revised since. And I think it is reasonable for Mr M to 
have expected the supplying dealership to have told him of any revisions to them. Ive also 
noted that BMWFS, in their own submissions, have agreed that the contents of the packages 
should have been discussed with Mr M.
As Im satisfied Mr M was told a false statement of fact, I now need to consider whether this 
induced him into taking the agreement out with BMWFS.
Ive carefully considered what Mr M has told our service. He has explained in detail the 
importance of some of the features missing from the car. Given what he has told us, Im 
persuaded he relied on the false statement of fact, and Im satisfied he wouldnt have 
entered into this credit agreement if he had been told correct information from the outset. 
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Our services 
normal remedy, where possible, is to put a consumer in the position they would have been in 
had the mistake not been made. Mr M says he would like the agreement to be unwound, to 
give him an opportunity to acquire a car that better suits his needs. I think this would be fair 
in the circumstances.However, Im mindful that Mr M has had full use of the car, and Im not aware of any faults 
with it which has impaired the driving ability of it. Mr M has though, likely had a loss of 
enjoyment with the car, given the features that were most beneficial to him are missing. 
Thinking about this, I dont think it would be fair for BMWFS to refund the full amount of the 
monthly payments made to the agreement and I think a fair refund would be 5% of monthly 
repayments made up until when the agreement ends. 
Im also mindful how invested Mr M has been with his complaint and the significant dialogue 
he has had with both the supplying dealership and BMWFS to try and get his complaint 
resolved. With that in mind, I think an award of £300 to reflect the inconvenience it caused 
Mr M is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I instruct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M at a time and date suitable for him.
Reimburse Mr M the advance payment made of £5,493.39. *
Reimburse Mr M 5% of the monthly repayments made towards the agreement up 
until when the car is collected to reflect the impaired use of the car. *
Pay Mr M £300 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the agreement 
and this complaint (if any).
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman