DRN-2167262
The complaint
Mrs F says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs F took out the PPI policy in 1994 when she applied for a mortgage. Neither party can 
confirm where the sale took place. The policy gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the
balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence
and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time. 
I note Mrs F has said her property purchase was in 1996, and she had redundancy cover, 
but as Nationwide has provided systems records showing her advance date was 18th 
January 1994 and that she had accident, sickness and redundancy cover I am using this 
information for my review. Mrs F has provided a letter dated 7th January 1996 that refers to 
her fixed rate ending so this also supports the systems evidence showing that her mortgage 
was in place prior to 1996.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mrs F that the PPI was optional  and she had to
agree to take it out. Mrs F says redundancy cover was surreptitiously added, she thought 
she had to have PPI as part of the mortgage Nationwide was offering her. 
I cant know what was said during the sale or how the PPI was presented, and Nationwide 
no longer paperwork from the sale. This isnt surprising or unreasonable give how long ago
the sale was.  Mrs F has provided a cover note that she received with all her mortgage 
paperwork. This handwritten note set out the cost of the PPI separately to the mortgage 
repayment and asked her to Please sign and return if acceptable. Accepting we do not 
know what she returned, this suggests to me Mrs F would have understood she had options 
and that she needed to give her consent for the products listed to be set up. I cant know 
why there is the discrepancy between Nationwides records that show Mrs F had accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover and the handwritten note that lists just redundancy cover. 
But this doesnt change the fact the PPI was set out separately and Mrs Fs consent was 
sought. 
Nationwide cant confirm if the cover was a condition of Mrs Fs mortgage - it sometimes 
offered mortgages with a preferential interest rates when certain insurances were taken out. 
It does seem from the table she sent in with the handwritten cover note that Building & 
Contents were a condition to secure the rate she wanted (the table says Yes), but PPI is 
not mentioned. But even if it was, this wouldnt automatically mean it was mis-sold. I say this 
as Mrs F could have chosen a different mortgage from Nationwide, or a different lender, if 
she didnt want the PPI. 
Mrs F also says the way PPI was set out alongside life cover on her annual statements was 
perhaps a way of masking the PPI. And whilst I accept it would have been clearer to list the 
insurances as separate line items, or to delete life cover for customers like Mrs F who only 
had PPI, this doesnt change my conclusion about what is most likely to have happened at 
the time of the sale. Overall, for the reasons set out above, I think its most likely Nationwide 
made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs F agreed to take it out.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs F, so it didnt have to check the policy 
was right for her. But it did have to give Mrs F enough information so she could decide for 
herself whether she wanted to buy it. Its possible the information Mrs F was given about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.
But I dont think she wouldve been put off taking out the policy if she had received better
information. I say this because:
Mrs F was eligible for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
She wasnt affected by any of the terms limiting the policys main benefits, such as
certain types of employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions. As she
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely she needed
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mrs F told us she was entitled to less than three months sick pay and had savings 
worth at least six months salary. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her 
work benefits and for much longer - up to 24 months. It would have allowed her to 
use any savings she had to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for her future needs. It also gave her up to 24 months redundancy cover. 
Mrs F was borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured against her 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the 
PPI wouldve have been useful for Mrs F if she was sick, had an accident or lost her 
job. And as she was paying monthly, she could cancel it if her situation changed or 
she no longer wanted it without incurring any future cost.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear during the sale, but the policy was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and apparently affordable.
So, in summary, I think its unlikely Mrs F wouldve made a different decision if better
information had been provided  overall, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs F has lost out because of any problems with this sale.My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman