DRN-1641999
 
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a transaction in a branch.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Some evidence in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made my 
decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs H visited a Bank of Scotland branch to pay a credit card bill. She took some cash 
with her and withdrew some more cash from a passbook. She says she was left short 
of £60, and she believes the cashier took it.
Mrs H wants to review the CCTV footage of the counter. But Bank of Scotland says 
this can only be done by a legal body such as the police. That isnt unreasonable and 
if Mrs H remains convinced a criminal offence has taken place she is free to contact 
the police. Furthermore, it is possible any CCTV footage mayve been deleted given 
the passage of time. And, as Bank of Scotland says, any CCTV footage isnt 
guaranteed to show the relevant transactions or necessarily assist in this matter.
Bank of Scotland has investigated matters thoroughly and its records show £60 cash 
was withdrawn from Mrs Hs passbook. And it says three minutes later Mrs H made a 
deposit of that same amount into a joint current account using the Immediate Deposit 
Machine. I think that likely explains where the £60 went. Although Mrs H says this 
deposit was from money shed taken out a few days before theres no evidence of 
the cashiers till having an error that day. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think I can therefore conclude on balance that 
an error has occurred in the branch. And, although I recognise Mrs Hs strength of 
feeling, I cant fairly or reasonably require Bank of Scotland to refund £60 to her as 
shed like.
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman