DRN-3818333
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are complaining that Nationwide hasnt refunded an amount that they paid for 
a coach holiday on their debit card.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I won't set them out in detail 
again. But, in summary Mr and Mrs P are complaining that Nationwide didn't process a 
chargeback claim they made for a coach holiday they booked through a third party travel 
provider  who I shall refer to as S. Nationwide said it asked Mr and Mrs P to provide 
information in support of their claim and it says they didn't provide it in time.
Our investigator upheld this complaint for two reasons. Firstly, she didnt think it was fair for 
Nationwide to have requested further information as she thought Mr and Mrs P had already 
provided sufficient information to process the chargeback when they first raised it. But, even 
if that wasnt the case, she thought they were still in time to raise the chargeback when 
Nationwide responded to the complaint to say Mr and Mrs P were out of time.
Nationwide didnt agree with the investigator. It said the chargeback wasnt raised because 
Mr and Mrs P didnt provide the information it required and they still hadnt provided it. It said 
the fault for the chargeback not being raised was down to Mr and Mrs P and it maintained it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
As Nationwide didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr and Mrs P contacted Nationwide to ask it to refund the deposit theyd paid (£260) towards 
the holiday S was supposed to provide  i.e. they asked to raise a chargeback request. 
Chargeback is a process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. The rules 
that govern a chargeback are strict and are set by the individual card scheme provider  in 
this case VISA.
Ultimately I agree with the investigator here that I think Mr and Mrs P had already provided 
Nationwide with sufficient information to process the chargeback when they first raised the 
chargeback. Nationwide said they needed the following:
a copy of the invoice, receipt, or email confirmation 
proof Mr and Mrs P had tried to resolve this with S
proof that the service was cancelled, or that there had been an attempt to cancel it
a copy of Ss terms and conditions showing the cancellation policy 
But VISA sets out the information that was required and, as I said, I don't think Nationwide 
needed further information as Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P had already provided sufficient 
information. Its also important to highlight that Nationwide was required to take into account 
information readily available in the public domain. 
The VISA rules don't set out that Nationwide needed an invoice or terms and conditions. 
Instead, it required "a detailed description of the merchandise or services purchased". 
Nationwide's internal systems showed that the supplier was S, the booking destination and 
that it was to commence on 7 December 2020. Nationwide would have been aware at the 
time Mr and Mrs P raised the chargeback (20 June 2020) S had entered into administration 
on 22 May 2020 with all future holidays cancelled. So it was clearly set out in the public 
domain that S would not be providing the service. With this in mind, I dont think it was 
necessary or reasonable for Nationwide to have asked for evidence the service was 
cancelled.
I do agree that, where a business goes into administration, VISA says the consumer needed 
to first look to resolve the dispute with the relevant bonding authority  which in this case 
was ABTA. But ABTAs guidance at the time was customers that made payment directly to 
S using a credit card or debit card may be able to make a claim to their card issuer. So 
ABTA was directing customers such as Mr and Mrs P to contact their card issuer  as 
Mr and Mrs P did. Ultimately, Im satisfied that the information on Nationwides internal 
systems was sufficient to raise a chargeback claim in line with VISAs rules. It follows, 
therefore, that I think it should have raised the chargeback in June 2020 and I think its likely 
it would have been successful.
I do accept, however, that Mr and Mrs P have to take some responsibility for whats 
happened because they should have responded to Nationwides information requests. But, I 
remain of the opinion that the underlying cause for the chargeback not being processed is 
because Nationwide asked for information it didnt need. But, irrespective of this, I think 
Nationwide was also incorrect when it told Mr and Mrs P in February 2021 that they were 
now too late to bring the claim. VISAs rules set out the timescales when a chargeback can 
be raised and this says that a claim can be raised no later than 120 calendar days from the 
last date that the Cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services. The holiday 
was due to end on 11 December 2020, so I think Mr and Mrs P had until at least 10 April 
2021 to raise the chargeback. So I think it was wrong for Nationwide to say it was too late. 
Had it not said as such, I think Mr and Mrs P would have then provided the information 
Nationwide said it needed and the chargeback would have succeeded.
In summary, I think Nationwide should have raised the chargeback claim when Mr and Mrs P 
first contacted it on 20 June 2020 and I think its likely to have been successful. But, even if 
Im wrong on this, it should have reiterated in February 2021 that it had asked for information 
and I think its likely Mr and Mrs P would have provided this, at which point Nationwide could 
have then successfully raised the chargeback claim. 
But, either way, I think Mr and Mrs P have lost out because of what went wrong. So I think 
Nationwide should refund the £260 Mr and Mrs P paid, plus 8% simple interest from 
20 June 2020 until they get it back.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Nationwide Building Society to refund the £260 Mr and Mrs P paid, plus 8% simple 
interest from 20 June 2020 until they get it back. If Nationwide thinks that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P 
how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman