DRN-3375911
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the delays by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited when 
he was buying an annuity from it.
What happened
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it to 
both parties in March 2022. The background to the complaint was set out in that 
assessment. 
In brief, Mr J contacted Legal and General on 15 January 2021 as he wanted to buy an 
annuity from it with his pension. His pension funds were held with another pension provider, 
which I will refer to as Firm A.
Legal and General booked a quotation call with Mr J for 26 January 2021. However during 
that call Legal and General explained that it couldnt continue with the quotation as some 
details provided by Firm A were incorrect. Mr J was told his case would be escalated and 
prioritised to avoid any further delays. However he didnt hear back from Legal and General, 
and so he contacted it again on 11 February 2021. 
Mr J spoke with Legal and General again on 12 February 2021. During this phone call Mr J 
expressed dissatisfaction with the process, and how the call handler had interacted with him. 
Legal and General received the correct information on 18 February 2021. The annuity 
paperwork was completed and the funds requested by 23 March 2021, but Legal and 
General then had to wait to receive the funds from Firm A. 
The first annuity payment received by Mr J was for the April 2021 payment.
Legal and General offered Mr J £150 compensation for its part in the delays. Mr J wasnt 
happy with the amount offered, because he said the delays had resulted in him not receiving 
an annuity payment in March 2021. So he considered hed been impacted financially as a 
result of the delays. Mr J didnt feel the £150 offered was fair and reasonable for the delays 
hed experienced and the amount of times hed chased Legal and General about the matter.
Our investigator said that the delays had been partly caused by Firm A sending incorrect 
information to Legal and General (his date of birth). He said this would have had an impact 
on the terms of the annuity bought. 
The investigator said that he thought Legal and General had chased Firm A for the 
information frequently and in-line with its service level agreements. He said Legal and 
General received the correct information from Firm A on 18 February 2021, but hadnt 
communicated this to Mr J until 5 March 2021. The investigator thought this was a delay on 
Legal and Generals part of a few days. 
The investigator also thought that Legal and General could have better handled its call with 
Mr J on 12 February 2021. And could have updated Mr J more frequently given the 
circumstances. He said he would take this into account along with the misinformation Mr J 
had been given.
However the investigator didnt think the missed March 2021 annuity payment was solely 
down to delays by Legal and General. And he said as there was a GMP (Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension) Mr J would always receive the guaranteed minimum amount. 
Taking everything into account, the investigator thought the £150 offered was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr J didnt accept the investigators assessment and therefore the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I think Legal and General could have acted in a timelier manner following receipt of Mr Js 
correct details on 18 February 2021. However even if it had contacted Mr J and had the 
quotation call a few days earlier than when it actually did (on 5 March 2021), it then had to 
process the paperwork and request the funds from Firm A.
Given the actual timeframes between Legal and General receiving the application and then 
receiving the funds, I think even if a few days had been saved by Legal and General acting 
in a timelier manner, time was always going to be tight for it to have been in a position to 
make the March 2021 payment. I dont think it can be said that it was more likely than not 
that the March 2021 payment would have been made, but for the few days delay in acting 
from 18 February 2021.
I recognise that Mr J called Legal and General on a number of occasions; it told Mr J it had 
done something when it hadnt, and it failed to keep him updated. In my view Legal and 
General failed to provide an acceptable level of service to Mr J. However for the reasons 
given, I dont think it caused the March 2021 payment to be missed. And taking everything 
into account in that context, for the reasons set out by the investigator, I think the £150 
offered is fair in all the circumstances for the distress and inconvenience reasonably caused 
to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds offer to pay 
Mr J £150 is fair in all the circumstances. Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
should therefore pay Mr J £150 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman