DRN-2484961
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a caravan he was financing through an agreement with
Black Horse Limited (Black Horse).
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. An extract from that 
decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr R took receipt of a new caravan in June 2015. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with Black Horse and in 2018 he settled the finance and took
ownership of the caravan.
He complained to Black Horse in August 2019. He said there had been water ingress
through the roof strap from the beginning and that it had damaged the framework and
stained the decoration.
Black Horse organised an independent inspection. The inspector said the damage was the
result of a defective repair of an issue not present at the point of sale.
Black Horse said they were only responsible for faults that were present at the point the
caravan was supplied to Mr R. They didnt think there was evidence that the leak had been
present or developing at that time, so they didnt support Mr R complaint.
Mr R therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her
opinion. She understood the difficulties in obtaining sufficient evidence to demonstrate when
the fault had occurred as no job cards had been made available and, whilst Mr R said hed
reported the fault in 2016, after hed removed covers from his caravan, the dealership had
suggested he hadnt reported the leak until much later.
She was persuaded that, on balance, Mr R had probably returned the caravan to the
dealership in 2016 and that the issue hadnt been discovered before that because the
caravan had been covered up. She thought that the temporary reseal the dealership agreed
theyd done had most likely been done at that stage but had failed and that Black Horse
should therefore pay to have the damage rectified and the seal fixed
Black Horse didnt agree with the investigator. They noted that a habituation check
completed in 2016 had not identified any damp. They said if Mr R had completed the
services that were due in 2017 and 2018 the issue may have been identified and resolved
and they said the independent inspector had supported their view that there was no fault
with the vehicle when it was supplied. They therefore asked for a final decision by an
ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his caravan under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the caravan should have been of
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of
the caravan, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this the other relevant circumstances would likely include things like the age,
mileage and price at the time the caravan was supplied to Mr R. The caravan here was
brand new so I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect any faults with it when it was
supplied.
The relevant legislation says that if the fault happens within the first six months the
assumption is that it was present or developing at the point of supply. The onus is therefore
on the business to show that wasnt the case. If the fault happens after the goods have been
in the consumers possession for more than six months then wed usually expect the
consumer to demonstrate the faults were there from the beginning.
Here Mr R suggests that the identification of the fault was delayed because he had the
caravan under a cover. He says that when the covers were removed, and the fault was
identified, he reported it to the dealership and they completed a temporary repair in 2016.
There has been some contradictory evidence supplied here from the dealership. Particularly
about the date Mr R reported the issue and whether they completed the temporary repair.
But, regardless of that, I think the balance of evidence suggests that the leak wasnt present
at the point the caravan was supplied and that it developed much later. I say that because:
the damp report completed in June 2016 gave the caravan a clean bill of health for
damp so its clear no damp was present at that time;
if damp was present before that time, and a temporary repair had been completed,
then I think its fair to suggest there would be signs of the damage the damp had
caused;
Mr R says he visited the dealership in August 2016 and again in November 2016. So,
I think its reasonable to assume that the damp problem started after June 2016 and
before August 2016.
Mr R says the dealership and the manufacturer accepted that the damp was a
manufacturing fault and was therefore present from the point the caravan was
supplied to him. But, unfortunately the Black Horse dispute that and theres no further
evidence to support Mr Rs assertion. I therefore dont think I have sufficient evidence 
the fault was present when the caravan was supplied to Mr R;whilst Mr R has provided evidence he was communicating with the dealership about
the damp problem in 2018 hes not provided any evidence that he reported the faults
within the first six months, or evidence that the fault was most likely to have been
present within the first six months, but identification of the fault was delayed because
the caravan was under cover;
Mr R didnt report the issue to Black Horse until August 2019, more than four years
after he took receipt of the caravan. Whilst I understand there may have been some
delays caused when the manufacturer ceased trading, I think the delay in reporting
the problem doesnt support Mr Rs suggestion the fault was present from the
beginning. I think its likely he would have reported the fault sooner if that was the
case;
the independent inspector who is an expert on these matters doesnt think the fault
was likely to have been present when the caravan was supplied. He said the problem
was a result of a defective repair of an issue not present at the point of sale.
Overall, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to suggest Black Horse need to take
any further action.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Black Horse didnt provide any further information, but Mr R provided a detailed response. 
Amongst other points he said:
the caravan should have been more durable and should not have developed a leak in 
such a short time, especially one that was now proving very difficult to repair due to 
the lack of parts;
the manufacturer accepted the leak was due to a manufacturing fault;
the damp report in July 2016 didnt identify damp because the caravan had been 
covered up. Had the covers been off the damp would have shown earlier;
the dealership had completed a repair and it failed  they must therefore have job 
sheets to demonstrate this;
the manufacturer offer a six-year warranty on leaks and that suggests the caravan 
hasnt been suitably durable;
a new leak has now developed on the caravan;
He provided photographs he said were taken before and after the repair by the dealership.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im concentrating my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling about this issue and I sympathise with the problems 
hes experienced. However, Im afraid Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional 
decision on this complaint. I dont think it would be fair to suggest Black Horse are 
responsible for the issues hes experienced with his caravan.
I explained in my provisional decision that if a fault occurs after six months the relevant 
legislation suggests the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present at the 
point of supply. I understand that Mr R has suggested that had the caravan not been 
covered up the leak would have occurred within the six-month timescale, but it didnt and in 
those circumstances it is for Mr R to demonstrate the fault was there from the beginning.
The independent expert doesnt think that was likely to have been the case and Mr R hasnt 
been able to provide documentation to demonstrate the nature of the work completed to the 
caravan. In those circumstances I dont think there is enough evidence to suggest there was 
a fault when it was supplied.
Mr R has also said the caravan should have been more durable. Hes explained that theres 
now a new leak on the caravan. The relevant legislation says we should consider whether 
the goods have been suitably durable when we consider if theyve been of satisfactory 
quality. Mr R has suggested the fact the manufacturer offered a six-year warranty on leaks is 
evidence the caravan wasnt suitably durable as the leak occurred earlier than that. But the 
manufacturer only offered that warranty on the basis that services would be completed and 
unfortunately services were missed. So, I dont accept that there is evidence a caravan 
developing a leak within this amount of time could be considered not to be suitably durable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman