DRN-3746274
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In July 2021, Mrs W received a call from a company claiming she was entitled to a PPI 
refund  Ill refer to this company as U. Mrs W says she wasnt expecting a PPI refund and 
the call came out of the blue. The scammer asked Mrs W to download the banking app for 
another bank, but Mrs W didnt hold an account with that bank. So, they asked Mrs W if she 
had online banking for another bank. Mrs W confirmed she had it for her Metro account. 
Mrs W was guided to set up two new payees on her Metro account (who Ill refer to as K & 
S) and made six payments in quick succession. These payments were all made on 14 July 
2021 within an hour and, in the order the payments were made, were for: £800, £900, £900, 
£500, £900, £900  totalling £4,900.
Mrs W says she believed she had set up the new payees so that her PPI refund could be 
paid into her account, however after sending the last payment had concerns that she 
mightve paid money out of her account. She checked her online banking while on the phone 
to the scammers and immediately realised that she had paid money out of her account.    
Mrs W told the scammers she was going to call the bank to stop the payments. The 
scammers told Mrs W not to do that, saying they would call back the next day and replace 
the funds taken out of her account. Mrs W ended the call with the scammers and called 
Metro to report the scam.
The following day, 15 July, the scammers called Mrs W back and told her they would refund 
her money. Mrs W says she downloaded an app as directed by the scammers and thought 
they were putting money into her account. In fact, Mrs W made an additional eight payments 
totalling £12,500. Most of these payments were made to S, but Mrs W also set up another 
new payee.
The following day 16 July, the scammers called Mrs W again. This time they told Mrs W that 
if she paid £2,000, all of her funds would be returned - so she made the payment.
Metro investigated Mrs Ws fraud claim for all the payments (totalling £19,400) but declined 
to refund her. They said Mrs W had ignored an effective warning theyd given her, therefore 
they werent liable to refund her. Metro were able to recover £1,896.73 from one of the 
beneficiary bank accounts and paid it into Mrs Ws account.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Metros response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint and recommended that Metro refund 50% of 
the payments Mrs W made, from the fourth payment onwards (which was for £500 and is 
shown in bold above). The investigator explained that Metro didnt provide Mrs W with an 
effective warning as required under the CRM Code, which shouldve happened when she 
made the fourth payment  so they were liable to refund Mrs W. But, the investigator felt  
Mrs W shouldve done more checks to make sure the company she was dealing with was 
legitimate, so should share the responsibility with Metro. Meaning their overall 
recommendation was that she got a 50% refund of those payments.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion saying Metro told her theyd blocked her 
account when she first reported the scam, so they shouldnt have allowed any further 
payments to leave her account. Mrs W also feels Metro havent done enough to protect her.
As Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) requires 
banks to refund customers like Mrs W who have been the victim of an APP scam, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. It sets standards that must be met by both Metro and    
Mrs W.
So, Ive considered whether both parties met the standards set for them under the CRM 
Code.
Have Metro met the standards set for them under the CRM Code?
Under the CRM Code, Metro are expected to take reasonable steps to protect their 
customers from APP scams. This should include procedures to detect, prevent and respond 
to APP scams. And, where they identify an APP scam risk, they should take reasonable 
steps to provide their customer with effective warnings.
In this case, I think Metro shouldve been concerned Mrs W mayve been at risk when she 
made the fourth payment and shouldve provided an effective warning. I say this because 
Mrs W had only used her account for minimal payments prior to the scam. She had two 
direct debits set to come out of the account for less than £50 per month, with no other 
regular payments out of the account. On 14 July, Mrs W made six payments within the 
space of an hour, to two new payees shed just set up. This activity was highly unusual and 
out of character for her account, so Metro shouldve been concerned that she might be the 
victim of a scam.
Metro have provided seven warnings which they say Mrs W wouldve seen. Im not satisfied 
that Mrs W wouldve seen all of these warnings.  But, regardless of which warning/s Mrs W 
was presented with, Im not satisfied that any of the warnings are effective  as defined by 
the CRM Code. 
Most of the warnings relate to different scam scenarios than the one Mrs W had fallen victim 
to. As they werent specific to Mrs Ws scam, they wouldnt have been impactful. 
The seventh warning is the closest to the scenario Mrs W was experiencing, however Im still 
not satisfied that it meets the definition of an effective warning. That warning talks about 
something else if you werent expecting to make this payment, or youve been asked to 
send money before receiving a refund, inheritance, lottery win or anything similar, its likely 
to be fraud. A scammer will often guide you through the process and tell you what options to 
press. Dont make this payment unless you know your money is going to the right place. This warning doesnt tell Mrs W how she can protect herself in these circumstances and it 
doesnt give any guidance with regards to checks she could or should do. Also, it suggests 
she shouldnt proceed if she doesnt know the money is going to the right place  but she did 
know it was going to the right place. So, Im not satisfied that this warning brought to life the 
features of the scam Mrs W was a victim of. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Metro havent met the standards set for them and should refund 
Mrs W for all of the payments made, from the fourth payment onwards. But I also have to 
consider if Mrs W met the standards set for her, as itll affect whether she is entitled to a full 
refund of those payments.
Did Mrs W meet the standards set for her under the CRM Code?
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case. 
So, I need to be persuaded that Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing that U was 
operating legitimately. Which Im not in this case, for the following reasons:
Mrs W wasnt expecting a PPI refund and had received the call out of the blue. Also, 
Mrs W says the scammer didnt know any details about her and initially asked her to 
download another banks banking app  even though she doesnt bank with them.
The scammer told Mrs W that she was entitled to a PPI refund, but required her to 
set up a new payee on her Metro account which wouldnt be required in order for  
Mrs W to receive funds into her account. 
Although Mrs W was expecting to receive funds, she made payments out of her 
account. I appreciate that Mrs W says she didnt realise she was transferring funds 
out of her account, but she told the bank (when reporting the fraud) that the 
scammers asked her to send money to their account. And this matches with what 
Mrs W did for the subsequent payments after reporting the fraud. Each time she was 
told that the scammers would refund her, but they talked her into making further 
payments out of her account.
Mrs W didnt complete any checks on the company the scammers were calling from 
despite receiving a call out of the blue. Also, Mrs W says she questioned the name of 
the first payee she set up, which suggests she had some concerns about what she 
was being told.
I think all of these points highlight red flags which shouldve caused Mrs W concern that she 
might not be dealing with a legitimate firm and shouldve resulted in her doing checks to 
verify what she was being told. So Im not satisfied that Mrs W had a reasonable basis for 
belief in making the payments, and hasnt met the standards set for her. On that basis, I 
think Mrs W should share the responsibility for her loss with Metro, and Metro should only 
refund 50% of the payments, from payment four onwards.Recovery of the funds and whether Metro shouldve done more to protect Mrs W
From what Ive seen Metro took the steps Id expect in trying to recover the funds for Mrs W 
from the beneficiary bank. In this case, they were only able to recover £1,896.73. 
As Metro and Mrs W are sharing responsibility for the loss, Metro should calculate the total 
value of the payments theyre being asked to refund, deduct the recovered funds and then 
calculate 50% of the remaining balance  which will be the amount theyre required to 
refund. 
Mrs W has raised a point about Metro telling her they had blocked her account, and why 
they allowed payments to go out of her account despite this block. However, having listened 
to the call when Mrs W reported the fraud, I didnt hear Metro tell her they would block her 
account. While I appreciate that Mrs W was the victim of a scam, I wouldnt expect Metro to 
automatically block her account as a result in the circumstances of this case. Metro have told 
us that they blocked her account on 18 August, which was removed on 20 August but say 
they have no record of blocking either of her accounts prior to this. Based on what Ive seen 
Im not satisfied that Metro has done anything wrong with regards to blocks not being placed 
on Mrs Ws account when she first reported the fraud. So I cant fairly ask that they refund 
Mrs W any more than Ive already recommended based on her concerns.
The interest award on the refund Metro are being asked to make
From what Ive seen the money Mrs W sent to the scammers, was sitting in an account and 
had been for the prior six months. So, I think its most likely that had she not fallen victim to 
the scam, the funds wouldve remained in that account. On that basis, I think the fairest 
award with regards to interest is that Metro pay interest at the account interest rate, 
applicable to the account Mrs W made the payments from.
Putting things right
To put things right Metro Bank PLC should:
Refund Mrs W £7,451.64. Being the total value of the payments from the fourth 
payment onwards (£16,800), less the funds they recovered for Mrs W (£1,896.73) 
and applying 50% shared responsibility.
Pay interest on that refund at the account interest rate, applicable to the account   
Mrs W made the payments from.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC and require them to 
compensate Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman