DRN-3475299
The Complaint
Mrs L and Mr W say that GE Money Home Finance Limited (GE Money) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with their claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  in relation to a 
timeshare they say they were sold in March 2000 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mrs L and Mr W bought a timeshare (the Timeshare) from CLM at the Time of
Sale. They paid for it using finance from GE Money  having entered into what looks like a
24-month Fixed Sum Loan Agreement (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mrs L and Mr W  using a
representative (LF)  wrote to GE Money in February 2019 (the Letter of Claim) to
make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
The Letter of Claim made these claims for a number of reasons  which it isnt practical to
list here. But the upshot of the Letter was that Mrs L and Mr W would not have made their
purchase but for the mistakes and misrepresentations at the Time of Sale.
As it doesnt look like GE Money responded to the claims, a complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in September 2019.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator  who shared her answer with both
sides in March 2022 rejecting the complaint.
Mrs L and Mr W, who were now represented by a different third-party (M), disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving the investigator any reasons why. The 
investigator started that process and gave both sides time to submit new evidence and/or 
arguments.
As the deadline set by the investigator had passed without her revisiting the complaint, it 
was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 5 April 2022. In summary, while it looked like 
GE Money had helped to finance the purchase of the Timeshare, I wasnt satisfied that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service had the jurisdiction to consider the Section 75 claim given its 
timing. And I didnt think Section 140A of the CCA applied to the credit agreement 
Mrs L and Mr W entered into to help make the purchase.
I gave both sides until 3 May 2022 to respond with new evidence and/or arguments.
GE Money questioned whether this complaint was directed at the right business, such that it 
thought that the Financial Ombudsman Service did have the jurisdiction to consider the 
Section 75 claim.
Mrs L and Mr W didnt respond to my PD  nor did their representative, M. And as the 
deadline I set for responses to my provisional findings has now been and gone, Im ready to 
consider this complaint for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think theres a reason to uphold this complaint as far as the 
relevant merits of it are concerned.
But before I get to the merits, Ill set out what I cant consider as part of this Final Decision. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to deal with every complaint it receives. Its 
bound by rules that set out the types of complaints it can look at. Those rules are set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) Handbook under the Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP). 
Section 2 of DISP sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. It covers
areas like whos making the complaint, what its about and which business its about. And
under those rules, the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint if it is
made against a financial business covered by its jurisdiction.
The Section 75 Claim
According to the Credit Agreement, Mrs L and Mr Ws loan was provided by 
First National Bank PLC  which, as the Companies House website confirms1, went on to 
become GE Money Home Finance Limited. But as I said in my PD, GE Money Home 
Finance Limited was only under the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction up until 
31 March 2016. And as Mrs L and Mr Ws Section 75 claim was only made in 2019, it isnt 
one the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider.
The merits of this Complaint: The Section 140A Claim
If a credit agreement started before 6 April 2007, it is possible to make a claim under
Section 140A in relation to that credit agreement provided it ended after 6 April 2008.
As I said in my PD, GE Money cant find any records of Mrs L and Mr Ws account. And in an 
email in October 2021, it said that, in line with its retention policy, any records may have 
been destroyed because the Credit Agreement ended more than six years before it carried 
out its search for their account. Whats more, as the Credit Agreement was signed by 
Mrs L and Mr W in March 2000, and as it appears to have been taken over a two-year term, 
it still seems unlikely to me that it ended after 6 April 2008.
So, as I still dont think Section 140A applies to the Credit Agreement, I dont think 
GE Money has to do anything further as far as this particular claim is concerned.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to reject this complaint insofar as it relates to 
1 https://find-and-update.company-information.service.gov.uk/company/00592986GE Moneys handling of Mrs L and Mr Ws Section 140A claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman