DRN-1118011
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with an Egg 
credit card in 2008. Mr B says the PPI was mis-sold to him.
Barclays Bank UK PLC later took over the credit card account and has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So, for clarity, I will refer to Barclays in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Barclays record of Mr Bs application for the credit card shows it was done online. And 
Barclays has sent us screenshots of what it says the online application form wouldve looked 
like at the time. These show a section on PPI with yes and no options to be selected to 
show whether the customer wanted to take it out. Barclays record of Mr Bs application also 
shows he selected the yes option.
Based on this, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr B chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Barclays gave Mr B any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means Barclays didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr B. But it did have to make sure he got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve 
meant he didnt need to rely on any savings or other means he had to make his repayments 
if he wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr B has said he also had death in service benefit. But the PPI covered different risks to this. 
So I still think it wouldve been useful to him. And so I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr B off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:    Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B,
     that was unfair.
    To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that
     was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman