DRN-2940619
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds (Admiral) handling of a claim he 
made under his motor policy.
 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident. He contacted Admiral and his car was deemed a total 
loss. Admiral gave Mr H a market value of £3,500, less his excess of £260. Mr H feels this 
value was lower than he should have received. 
Admiral acknowledged the maximum trade guide valuation was £4,220 but said this for the 
retail value. They said the offer made was reduced having considered a number of factors. 
They cited that the car was purchased from a non-manufacturer approved garage and the 
higher than average mileage. Admiral said it had considered two other valuations for the 
market value - one at £3,500 and one at £2,625 and had offered Mr H the higher one. It felt 
this was fair. 
Mr H didnt, saying the basic principles of insurance were to put him back in the position hed 
been in before the accident. The settlement figure offered to him didnt do so, and hed 
potentially need to find between £500 and £1,000 to buy an equivalent car. Mr H said hed 
bought the car from a reputable garage and the car should be based on the retail value. Mr 
H complained and provided a valuation indicating a market value of £3,800. Admiral didnt 
uphold his complaint or increase the settlement.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered what happened but 
didnt think Admiral needed to do anything more to put things right. As Mr H didnt agree, this 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In offering what it says is the market value of the car, Admiral is looking to rely on the below 
clause in the policy terms:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term 'market' in 
which you would normally shop for your car e g. Retail value, will not apply if you 
bought your car privately or at an auction
Admiral says it made a deduction from the highest retail value to reflect Mr Hs car was 
bought from a non-manufacturer approved garage and had a higher than average mileage. 
Mr H says its unfair that Admiral made these deductions without clearly specifying in the 
policy terms and conditions it might do so. 
This service doesnt decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has acted 
reasonably when reaching its valuation. Mr Hs policy says the most it will pay in the event of 
a claim is the market value of the car at the time of loss. In line with our approach, motor 
trade guides have provided a valuation for Mr Hs car. The market values produced were 
£3,500 and £2,625, with Mr H being offered the higher amount.
I appreciate Mr H feels he should be entitled to the retail value of the car, which was £4,220. 
Admiral explained it wasnt prepared to do so for two primary reasons. The first being the 
above average mileage of the car and the second was because it had been bought from a 
non-approved manufacturers garage. While Mr H might disagree, Im satisfied that Admirals 
explanation for not paying the retail value is reasonable. And I note it made a payment 
equivalent to the highest figure for the market value given by the motor trade guides. Im not 
intending to direct Admiral to increase the payment. 
Mr H says the purpose of insurance is to put him back in the position he would have been in 
before the accident. He says that if he was truly put back in this position, hed be paid the 
additional money required to purchase a comparable vehicle. And while I can see why Mr H 
considers he should be entitled to the higher amount, Im satisfied Admiral has followed our 
approach by making a payment based on the market valuations it obtained (and at the 
higher end of these valuations) and given clear reasons for this amount.  
Its important Mr H is given a fair settlement. But overall, Im satisfied Admiral has followed a 
fair process in reaching its valuation. Ultimately, it followed the standard industry approach 
here  and I dont think Ive seen enough to say it was unreasonable for it to do so for this 
claim. It follows that I do not require it to do anything further for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman