DRN-4038952
The complaint
Mr S complains through a representative that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a
line of credit he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr S also says he asked for a payment holiday due to the pandemic, but one wasnt 
provided.
What happened
Mr S approached Drafty for a running credit facility in November 2019. Mr S was given a
facility with a £810 credit limit. The limit remained the same throughout the life of the credit
agreement. Drafty in the final response letter said there was an outstanding balance but
Mr S said that he repaid the balance in March 2022. In response to the provisional decision,
Drafty should confirm the status of the account.
Mr S was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr S was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter to Mr Ss representative it explained the information it
gathered from Mr S before it approved the facility which included carrying out an income and
expenditure assessment. Drafty concluded Mr S was likely to be able to afford his credit
facility. Drafty didnt uphold the complaint. At the time of this response Mr S owed Drafty
£841.24.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ss representative referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate. These checks showed Drafty that Mr S
was likely to be able to afford the payment amounts as outlined in the hypothetical payment
schedule which is detailed in Mr Ss credit agreement. So, she didnt think it was wrong to
have approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure
the facility was affordable, Drafty also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ss use of the facility.
Having reviewed the way Mr S borrowed and repaid the facility, she thought by 2 July 2021
the facility had become unsustainable for him. Knowing this, in the adjudicators view Drafty
shouldve stepped in and helped.
Finally, she wasnt able to uphold the complaint about Mr Ss request for a payment holiday
because there was nothing to suggest one was asked for.
The adjudicator recommended Drafty refund all interest, fees and charges added to the
facility after 2 July 2021. She also asked Drafty to pay 8% simple interest on the refunded
amount.
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. Drafty did agree to refund the
interest fees and charges applied to new drawdowns from 2 July 2021, after applying 8%
simple interest and deducting tax the refund  at the time the offer was made was £49.72.
Drafty also agreed to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file from
2 July 2021. 
However, Drafty said
As the assessment is about whether our decision to continue lending the money was
appropriate or not, your decision implies that any draws granted after 2nd July 2021,
were inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. However, it also
implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were reasonable for us to grant.
The offer was put to Mr S but the representative rejected it. Later on, Mr S provided the
following comments.
It doesnt mention that I had to borrow money and pay off the loan in full cause [sic]
the interest kept being too high - it says the account is active - they suspended the
usage on the account but kept making me pay the payments and apply interest - so
I couldnt even use the account - I had to borrow money and clear. The [sic] balance
on 14th March this year.
It says none of that. Please update them please. Also can you ask them to check
phone records as I did ask for a payment holiday. Secondly on the phone I did tell
them my pay had gone down due to less commission [sic] due to covid and that I had
to help out at home as my dad had been made redundant
The complaint was then passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision explaining why, I 
thought the offer Drafty had made to resolve the complaint was fair and reasonable. A copy 
of the provisional findings follows this in smaller type size and forms part of this final 
decision.
Both Mr Ss representative and Drafty were asked to provide anything further for 
consideration as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 21 March 2023.
Mr Ss representative emailed to confirm it would accept the outcome as explained in the 
provisional decision.
Drafty also agreed with the outcome in the provisional decision. It said the updated refund 
figure (taking account of 8% simple interest and tax) for Mr S is £51.57. It also said the 
refund would be paid into Mr Ss account which ends in 6007. If Mr S would like the refund 
into a different account, he should contact Drafty. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could
make an informed decision on the lending.Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
As explained, Mr S was given an open-ended credit facility and not a payday loan (or a
series of payday loans). So, overall, I think that this means the checks Drafty carried out had
to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr S would be able to both service
and then repay his facility within a reasonable period. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ss
repayment record for any sign that he may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it
offered some redress from this time  2 July 2021. And while, Mr S rejected the settlement
offer by Drafty, he didnt disagree that this was the point where the complaint ought to be
upheld.
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from
2 July 2021. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, is
whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
Both the adjudicator and Drafty have agreed that Mr Ss borrowing history showed he was
potentially reliant on the facility and so it had become unsustainable for him. So, there
doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became unsustainable for
Mr S.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr S while
explaining why I think the offer made by Drafty to just refund the interest and charges on
new drawdowns from 2 July 2021 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint.
By July 2021, Drafty accepts the facility was unsustainable, so I dont think that I need to
speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have taken at this time. There were
a number of options which Drafty could have taken to assist Mr S. But seeing as none of
these were taken and Im satisfied that there was a need for some action  as it agrees. Ive
considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after
the event.
However, in saying the above, I dont have anything from either Mr S which demonstrates he
was in significant financial distress at the time and the payment history  while is concerning
- I dont think was at the point where it wouldve been obvious to Drafty that the whole facility
was unsustainable for him. There are for example no missed payments but as Ive said there
was some concerning information such as Mr S maintaining to only pay the minimum
payment each month and then occasionally drawing back up to his credit limit.
I do also have to consider that Mr S only took one further drawdown (albeit Drafty werent to
know that at the time) and there are times such as between September 2020 and
November 2021 where Mr S doesnt take any new drawdowns on the facility. Mr S also
doesnt appear to make repayments and then immediately return for further funds which I think further 
reinforces that while new drawdowns werent sustainable for him, I dont automatically think that 
means the whole facility was unaffordable or unstainable for him.
Draftys proposed redress, as outlined in response to the adjudicator would lead to a refund
of interest on new drawdowns and I consider that refund to be reasonable in the
circumstances  based on the information that I have to hand. So, I am intending to ask
Drafty to pay that redress in resolution of the complaint.Especially, as I cant say and dont know, based on the information that I have, that had
Drafty made further enquires with Mr S at this time what it wouldve likely discovered. And
whether it would have found that Mr S was in financial difficulties to the extent that not just
the new drawdowns were unsustainable for him but rather the whole facility was as well. I
therefore dont think it follows that I can fairly say that all the interest, fees and charges
should be refunded.
Therefore, based on what Ive seen, including reviewing the drawdown history not just the
number of drawdowns but the relationship between when drawdowns were made and when
payments were made and anything else Drafty was aware of. I think Draftys offer to put
things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable given it considers the facility was unsustainable
for Mr S at this point in time and has proposed a way to enable any new drawdowns to be, in
effect, interest free.
Other considerations
Mr S says he requested a payment holiday due to the pandemic. In addition, he also says he
told Drafty his pay had reduced due to receiving less commission and his father had been
made redundant and so was helping him out. Mr S says this payment holiday was declined
which caused further financial problems.
Enquires were made with Drafty about a payment holiday and Drafty has explained that it
didnt decline a payment holiday because in its view one wasnt asked for. It therefore hasnt
sent any evidence of a request for a repayment plan  as there wouldnt be any.
Mr S hasnt provided any details of when this payment holiday was asked for. In addition, the
statement of account doesnt show any missed payments. It is of course possible that Mr S
was in fact struggling to meet his repayments (and a payment holiday wouldve been useful
for him). Or he didnt pay other creditors in order to pay Drafty. I dont know what Mr S did
but in the absence of any other evidence from Mr S, I cant fairly conclude that Drafty made
an error with regards to the repayment plan.
While I understand that Mr S says the interest was too high, Ive not seen anything to
suggest that Drafty has incorrectly applied the interest amounts that it said it would do in the
credit agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr Ss representative and Drafty have agreed with the outcome that I proposed to 
reach on the case and what was outlined in the provisional decision. As this is the case, I 
see no reason to depart from those findings. 
I still think Drafty should refund the interest, fees and charges applied to new drawdowns on 
the facility from 2 July 2021 and Ive outlined below what Drafty has already agreed to do. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I am directing Drafty do the following, which is what it has
already agreed to do:
Refund interest, fees and charges that Mr S paid on new drawdowns from 
2 July 2021.
Then add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement*.Drafty should remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Ss credit 
file from 2 July 2021.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) should put things right for Mr S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman