DRN-2478297
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc has closed her account and registered a marker at
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss D says she agreed to receive money from the Uncle of a friend who she knew well for
his educational fees and then send them on to him. She maintains that she didnt know that
the payments of £400 and £150 she received on 28 October 2019 were fraudulently
obtained. And when Santander told her about this she obtained a copy of the statement of
the person who sent the money as requested. She doesnt think that the marker was added
fairly.
Santander says it received a report on 8 November 2019 that this money had been
fraudulently obtained. It contacted Miss D and asked her to show that she was entitled to it.
As she said that the money was never intended for her she had breached the terms and
conditions of the account. And the statement didnt provide proof of her entitlement as the
money was obtained fraudulently in the first place. Miss D had quickly sent the payments on.
So, it said it hadnt made any mistake in closing her account and adding the marker. It had
paid her £30 for providing a poor service when it reviewed her documents in a branch.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he had seen a
number of social media messages said to be between Miss D and the person she had sent
the money onto. He said that:
- Miss D hadnt asked why the fees couldnt have been paid directly and said she was 
just helping out a friend. She had tried to send the payment on to that person on 28 
October 2019 but had sent it in two parts the following day leaving £12 for herself.
- The social media messages state that the friends Uncle has first sent £400. And she 
asked that no more was sent. They dont explain the agreement before then for   
Miss D to receive the money and provide her bank details.
- He thought that her suspicions ought to have been raised and that there were 
multiple other routes for her friend to receive the money. She did benefit to a small 
extent although had turned down a share of the money.
Miss D didnt agree. She said that the screenshots did deal with why the money was sent. 
She attached these documents. She said that she believed her friends Uncle wasnt able 
to use an app to send this money abroad. Miss D accepted that she had been nave and 
should have been cautious, but she insisted she had no knowledge that this money was
fraudulently obtained.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 26 November 2020. I set out below 
what I said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, 
Santander needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Information from social media is difficult to verify. I looked at all the screenshots Miss D 
has provided. I wasnt clear if she ever provided these to Santander although they did 
seem to be referred to in notes of a conversation it had with her. I agreed with our 
investigator that as these start on 28 October 2019 they dont cover any prior 
arrangements made. But I did take a different view of them when considered overall for the 
following reasons:
- I was satisfied that at least at first Miss D did think that these were funds for her 
friend from his Uncle. To think otherwise Id need to form the view that the 
extensive chain of messages was fabricated from the start to provide cover for 
Miss D when receiving the funds. I thought she was strongly influenced by the 
person she was in contact with to act in this way.
- I viewed the development of the online conversation as a natural one with Miss D 
being concerned to receive a further £150. And her making an attempt to send all 
the money on that evening and declining to take any share for herself. She did 
split the funds to enable her to send the money, but I didnt consider the £12 odd 
of this that remained in her account that relevant here.
- Her concern at the contact from Santander about this money is shown. There is a 
clear and escalating path of her requesting a copy of the statement a number of 
times. And then saying that this didnt show the payment was for her on that 
statement. She obtained the details of the person who sent the money and passed 
this on to Santander. If she knew this money had been fraudulently obtained Id 
have expected the nature of those exchanges to be different with her.
- The friend she is speaking to offers to cover any money she has lost but she 
says that this is all about her account being restricted.
- I considered the nature of the messages on her social media account to be 
broadly consistent with her explanation, the movements on her account and the 
contact she had with Santander.
I agreed that Miss D ought to have been more suspicious about how her account was 
being used. She effectively was a money mule and gave out her details without too much 
thought about this. And suspicion then falls on her as a result of the money she received 
and quickly paid on. But in what I thought is a finely balanced case my provisional view 
was that I wasnt persuaded for the reasons Ive given that she was a witting participant in 
the fraud.
Given this I didnt consider that the high bar for reporting a fraud marker has been met. 
But I did think that Santander had sufficient grounds to decide that it no longer wanted to 
offer her an account. In the circumstances I wouldnt be requiring Santander to do 
anything more than remove any externally reported fraud markers.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it accepted my provisional decision and would arrange for the CIFAS marker 
to be removed. Miss D didnt make any comments.
As a result, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to remove the 
CIFAS marker and any other externally reported fraud markers relating to these payments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman