DRN-3040348
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Gregory Pennington Limited failed to include one of her debts in 
a settlement offer after she gave them the required lump sum.
What happened
Mrs W was in a debt management plan with Gregory Pennington. In January 2020, Mrs W 
arranged for Gregory Pennington to settle her debts on her behalf, as her partner was gifting 
her a lump sum of at least £12,400.
During the call, the Gregory Pennington adviser explained that one debt collector  who Ill 
call P  was unlikely to accept a reduced settlement. Mrs W had two debts with P, and the 
adviser explained that with a lump sum of £12,400 theyd likely be able to settle all of 
Mrs Ws debts except for the larger P one. So they recommended using the lump sum to 
clear all the debts except the larger P one, then for Mrs W to carry on paying P directly for 
that last account  which would save her the monthly debt management plan fees.
Mrs W said she wanted to clear all the debts, and repeatedly asked the adviser how much 
shed need to give them to do that. The adviser told Mrs W theyd need £14,000 to clear all 
of Mrs Ws debts including that larger P one. Mrs W said her partner would most likely be 
willing to pay that if it would clear all the debts, and shed speak to them about it. The adviser 
said that once they received Mrs Ws paperwork, theyd speak to her about whether she 
could get those additional funds and what shed like to do. They also said that if there was 
money left over theyd call her and ask her what she wanted to do with it.
Mrs W paid Gregory Pennington £14,000. They used this to settle her debts  except for the 
larger P one. They sent her updates about the accounts they were settling, which included 
the smaller P debt, but did not mention the larger P debt in any way. In the end, they told 
Mrs W they had completed her settlements with her lenders, and her plan would now close. 
They then returned the remainder of the money to Mrs W once that was done.
Mrs W says she thought Gregory Pennington had settled all her accounts, since shed 
specifically paid them the £14,000 they asked for. So she was shocked to then get calls 
saying the larger P debt was still outstanding.
Gregory Pennington said theyd told Mrs W clearly on the phone that they wouldnt include 
the larger P debt, which shed appeared to understand. They said their updates never 
explicitly said theyd settled the larger P debt.
I sent Mrs W and Gregory Pennington a provisional decision on 11 August 2021, to explain 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Gregory Pennington communicated with Mrs W 
clearly enough or handled her settlement in the way Id expect. Ill explain why.
I agree with Gregory Pennington that their adviser was clear in what she was recommending 
 if Mrs W paid them £12,400. But Mrs W paid them £14,000.
This is important, as Mrs W and the adviser repeatedly discussed how much it would cost to 
settle all the accounts, and the adviser also made it very clear to Mrs W that if she paid them 
£14,000 then they would include the larger P debt. Similarly, Mrs W was quite clear that she 
and her partner were keen to clear all the debts involved, and that it was most likely her 
partner would be willing to pay £14,000 to have it all done with.
So Gregory Pennington told Mrs W that if she paid them £14,000 theyd try to settle all the 
accounts involved. Mrs W said she probably would be able to send them £14,000 in order to 
settle all the accounts involved. And Mrs W did then send them £14,000. At that point, 
Gregory Pennington should probably have realised that Mrs W was intending for them to pay 
off all the accounts involved. And if they werent sure, they needed to speak to Mrs W and 
clarify why shed paid them £14,000 and not the £12,400 the recommendation was based 
on. But Gregory Pennington did not query why Mrs W had sent them £14,000 and not 
£12,400, nor tell her that they needed less since they werent going to settle the larger P 
debt. I think they got things wrong there.
Further, Gregory Penningtons adviser said that once they got the paperwork back, theyd 
have a further conversation with Mrs W about whether her partner could give her the extra 
funds to include the larger P debt, or whether she was happy to deal with P separately. They 
said theyd check how Mrs W wanted to deal with that. But as far as I can see, that 
conversation didnt happen.
The adviser also said that if there were funds left over afterwards, theyd call Mrs W and 
discuss what to do with them. But that doesnt appear to have happened either.
I think those were further errors on Gregory Penningtons part. And I think that if they had 
called Mrs W as they said they would, or if theyd taken reasonable action to find out why 
shed paid them enough to clear all the debts instead of the smaller amount theyd asked for, 
then I think it wouldve become clear to them that Mrs W wanted the P debt included, and 
I think it would have avoided the situation were in now.
Gregory Pennington did send Mrs W update emails about how the settlements were going. 
And I acknowledge that they didnt explicitly say they were settling the larger P debt. But 
they also didnt explicitly say theyd left it out. And since there was another P account 
involved, the updates did say Gregory Pennington were actively settling things with P  and 
I can see how that couldve confused things further. Gregory Pennington argue that Mrs W 
shouldve noticed the larger P debt wasnt listed in the updates and concluded that must 
have meant they hadnt included it. But I dont agree. The onus was on Gregory Pennington 
to explicitly tell Mrs W what was happening with the larger P debt, especially after their 
conversation about how Mrs W would ideally like it included, and especially after she 
specifically paid them the amount they asked for in order to include it. It wasnt good enough 
for Gregory Pennington to simply leave the larger P account out of its updates and hope 
both that Mrs W would notice this  despite the other P account being present to potentially 
confuse things  and that she would correctly guess what its absence meant.Looking at Gregory Penningtons follow-up emails, I can really see how Mrs W might have 
thought her larger P debt had been cleared. They specifically told her that there were 
enough funds to pay P in full, not specifying this didnt include the larger account. After this, 
they said there was just one debt left to settle  which was with a different company, 
implying there was not a remaining debt with P. And once that was done, they sent an email 
saying Congratulations, I am delighted to inform you that we have completed your 
Settlements with your lenders!. There was no mention in any of these emails that the larger 
P debt had not been paid.
It is understandable, then, that Mrs W got a rather large shock when she found out Gregory 
Pennington had not cleared her P debts in full, despite her paying them exactly what theyd 
asked for in order to do just that.
In terms of putting things right, I can understand why Mrs W would like Gregory Pennington 
to now pay off the remaining P debt with their own money. But I dont think that would be fair 
 ultimately, this is a debt which Mrs W genuinely owes, not Gregory Pennington. And I cant 
see that Mrs W has lost out financially, since Gregory Pennington returned the money to her 
that was left over after they didnt pay for the larger P debt. And it should cost the same 
amount to settle things with P now as it would have done if Gregory Pennington had done it 
 indeed, it may cost less now, since Gregory Pennington wont be taking a fee from that.
With that said, I can see that Mrs W has suffered some serious distress from what Gregory 
Pennington got wrong. And shes now left with the trouble of sorting things out with P herself. 
Whats more, this has all come during an exceptionally difficult time for Mrs W  which 
Gregory Pennington were aware of. She was already going through a truly tough situation, 
and unfortunately theyve now added to that.
We cant undo the distress thats been caused. But when a business gets things wrong, we 
often tell them to pay compensation  to acknowledge their error and the impact it had.
In terms of the amount of compensation, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine 
or punish businesses. And we have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, 
which I need to be consistent with. After considering the circumstances of this case and our 
approach to compensation, I think it would be fair for Gregory Pennington to pay Mrs W 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused her.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 September 2021. Mrs W didnt add anything further. Gregory Pennington agreed to pay 
the compensation but asked for a point of clarification, which Ill talk about below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gregory Pennington asked for clarification that I did not think they had caused Mrs W a 
concrete financial loss; that I accepted they had made a clear recommendation on the basis 
that Mrs W paid them £12,400 and had then followed that recommendation; and that the 
issue was that they didnt then adjust things or discuss things with Mrs W after she paid the 
higher amount, leading her to believe all her debts had been included.That is a good summary. Per the provisional decision, I understand that they returned the 
unused funds to Mrs W and that it will ultimately cost the same  or less  for her to settle 
things with P herself. So she would not have lost out financially. The compensation 
surrounds the issues in communication where Gregory Penningtons adviser had asked for 
£14,000 to include all the debts, and Mrs W had then paid that, but they did not then clarify 
the situation or have the follow-up discussions they said they would.
Im glad to hear that Gregory Pennington agree to the compensation. Neither side have sent 
in any other new evidence or arguments  so having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Gregory Pennington Limited to pay Mrs W £300 compensation in total.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and direct Gregory Pennington Limited to pay her £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman