DRN-3345062
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the level of cover attached to a Home Emergency policy he 
renewed through the broker Grove & Dean Ltd. Mr K is also unhappy that his complaint 
wasnt registered when he called.
What happened
Mr K bought a Home Emergency policy through a broker, Grove & Dean in April 2020 which 
he renewed with it in April 2021. 
In June 2021 Mr K complained to Grove & Dean. Hed made a claim to the insurer for lost 
keys under the previous policy. Mr K said that the engineer involved had caused damage to 
the door handle when changing the barrel.
Under the April 2021 policy with a different insurer, Mr K made a claim. He said he 
attempted to replace the door handle but couldnt and wasnt able to put back the original 
door handle. Mr K said this resulted in him being locked out of his property.
Mr Ks claim with the insurer was declined. Mr K was unhappy about this and said he had to 
call out an engineer at his own expense.
Mr K complained to Grove & Dean. He said he was given misinformation about lost keys 
cover on three occasions. He said Grove & Dean put up a barrier to him raising his 
complaint. He wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience he says these 
matters caused him. 
In August 2021 Grove & Dean replied to Mr Ks complaint. It spoke to the previous insurer 
about Mr Ks first claim. The insurer said Mr K chose the locksmith and it partially reimbursed 
him for the costs in line with the policy. So Grove & Dean said Mr K would need to contact 
the locksmith if he was unhappy with their work.
Grove & Dean confirmed that lost keys are covered under the current home emergency 
provider, but only for the loss or theft of the only available key to gain access to Mr Ks 
home, not due to any accidental damage that has been caused to the locking mechanism.
Grove & Dean apologised to Mr K for the misinformation hed been given by its agent and 
said it was reviewing its training needs and requirements for its company and complaints 
procedures.
Mr K remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Grove & Dean had acted 
reasonably in its role as Mr Ks broker in relation to the claim complaints. She didnt think it 
needed to do any more.
Mr K didnt agree. He says Grove & Dean refused to log his complaint at the first point of 
contact. So he wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what a business did to put 
things right. 
In relation to Mr Ks complaints about the way his claims have been handled, I agree that his 
concerns need to be redirected to the insurers involved. Grove & Dean arranged the policies 
for Mr K as his agent. In relation to claims made under the policies, these are dealt with by 
the insurers of the policies. So I think Grove & Dean provided a reasonable explanation to 
Mr K here. 
Grove & Dean accept that it didnt give Mr K correct information about his cover in calls and 
when he wanted to log a complaint. Although he was given misinformation, I think Grove & 
Dean has provided Mr K with the correct information about his policy cover in line with the 
documents sent to him at renewal when it responded to his complaint. And so the outcome 
of his complaints regarding claims made remains the same. Grove & Dean did respond to 
his complaint and Mr K hasnt been prevented from bringing his complaint to this service. So 
overall I think Grove & Deans apology to Mr K for its poor service is enough to put things 
right in this case. This means Im not asking it to pay an award of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman