DRN-3375277
The complaint
Ms P and Mr S complain Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined their pet 
insurance claim. 
My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Ms P and Mr S took out an annual Max Value pet insurance policy, insured by Red Sands  
for their dog Ill refer to as H. The policy started in December 2018, and they renewed the 
policy each year.
Ms P and Mr S said they made a claim against their insurance policy when H suffered 
diarrhoea and sickness and had to undergo diagnostic investigation in December 2020.
Red Sands declined the claim as they said it was for a pre-existing condition. They said the 
dogs vet notes showed H had bouts of sickness and diarrhoea in 2017 and 2018 before 
the policy was taken out. The vet notes also showed similar gastric problems in late 2019. 
And in late 2020  after H had another bout of sickness and diarrhoea he was diagnosed 
with gastroenteritis. Ms P and Mr S werent happy with Red Sands response, they said their 
vet told Red Sands their dogs diarrhoea in the previous years was unrelated, but they still 
declined their claim. Ms P and Mr S complained to Red Sands.
Red Sands said the policy terms had been applied correctly as this was a pre-existing 
condition they hadnt been told about. They said Ms P and Mr S claim had been declined 
under this exclusion.  
Ms P and Mr S referred their complaint to us. Our investigator said Red Sands had applied 
the exclusion fairly and reasonably. Ms P and Mr S didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
In cases like this I put weight on evidence provided by professionals. Ms P and Mr S vet 
made clear that its very probable there wasnt a link between the causes of the sickness and 
diarrhoea from 2017 to 2020. And there hadnt been a definitive diagnosis of gastroenteritis 
until December 2020. But Red Sands differ saying there is clear evidence of gastric 
sensitivity causing the regular vet visits.
Ive considered the vets notes. Hs medical notes indicate that there were significant gaps 
between bouts of diarrhoea and also that there was no record of diarrhoea for over three 
months before the policy was incepted. But there was a bout of illness around a month prior 
to the policy renewal in December 2019. 
Red Sands policy terms wont cover:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an
accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the
commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
So, I think the schedule and the policy document are reasonably clear about what Ms P and 
Mr S could and couldnt make a claim for. And I dont think that these terms are onerous or 
unusual. 
Terms such as these arent uncommon in pet insurance policies. Most policies dont provide
cover for medical conditions thatd already started before the policy was taken out, or within
a set period at the start of the policy. So, I think its clear that any condition that began before
the policy started, or in the first 14 days of the policy, wouldnt be covered under the pet
insurance policy.
The vets notes show that Ms P and Mr S brought H to see the vet for sickness and 
diarrhoea in April 2017 and April 2018, several months before the inception of the policy. But 
in January 2019 and November 2019 Ms P and Mr S brought H to see the vet as he was 
again having intestinal problems. Ms P and Mr S pet insurance policy came up for renewal 
in December 2019 and they continued with the policy with Red Sands. So, at this point H 
had already been to the vet on a number of occasions with intestinal problems.
While  H hadnt had a full diagnosis regarding his intestinal problems, its important to note, 
that under Ms P and Mr S policy, there doesnt have to be a diagnosis for something to be 
considered a pre-existing condition. It is enough for the pet to be showing signs of illness or 
injury at any time before the commencement of the policy.
The claim Ms P and Mr S made relates to a bout of vomiting and diarrhoea in December 
2020, some 12 months after the last bout. The vet says this is a more serious bout and 
further investigation was needed as there was consideration of Pancreatitis. The notes also 
say Had similar bout last year. After the tests were done it was confirmed that H had 
gastroenteritis. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think Red Sands acted unreasonably when 
they declined this claim, because, on balance, I think Ms P and Mr S dogs condition was an 
illness hed been suffering from just prior to the policy being renewed in December 2019. 
And H again suffered a similar bout in December 2020.
So, while Ms P and Mr S has my sympathy, and I appreciate this must be very difficult for 
them, I cant say Red Sands acted unreasonably considering the circumstances in declining 
their claim under the exclusion of a pre-existing condition.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman