DRN-3626634
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse him after he 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr O was looking to buy a corporate bond and found a renewable energy company that 
appeared to sell them directly. He said he carried out checks on Companies House and an 
information sharing service and the energy company seemed legitimate based on what he 
could see but unfortunately the company turned out to be a scam.
Based on the information he received from scammers Mr O thought he was investing in a 
five year bond offering a return of around 6%. He proceeded to make two payments of 
£20,000 one on 12 November 2020 and one on 13 November 2020. 
In January 2021, the scammers informed him the company was going into liquidation and his 
funds could be secured via an early termination scheme. He was told he would need to pay 
a fee of £4,000 for this service. Throughout January the scammers continued to contact Mr 
O to inform him he needed to pay further fees in order to secure the return of the £40,000 
hed already paid. Overall he sent a further £20,214 across five payments.
On 26 January 2021, a day after Mr O made his final payment to scammers, NatWest 
contacted Mr O to express its concerns hed fallen victim to a scam. Mr O considered things 
again and contacted NatWest to confirm he thought hed been the victim of a scam.
NatWest agreed to reimburse him for 50% of his loss as it felt it couldve done more to 
protect him, but also felt Mr O couldve done more to verify the payments he was making. It 
also contacted the beneficiarys bank directly and was able to recover £5,008.69 of Mr Os 
loss.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year. I said that:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
NatWest has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for NatWest to establish that a customer failed 
to meet a requisite level of care under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the 
CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mr O ignore effective warnings?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable 
a customer to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the 
consequences of not doing so. As a minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective 
warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
NatWest hasnt been specific about what warnings exactly were shown to Mr O and has 
instead provided examples of general warnings that mightve been displayed in addition to 
some general scam information it says he wouldve seen. I dont think anything its provided 
reflects that Mr O ignored an effective warning in this case.
None of the information in the warnings was specific to his circumstances or brought to life 
the nature of the type of scam he was victim to. Although it directs him to a link which 
provides additional information about how to protect himself against scams, this is on a 
separate page and takes him away from the payment journey and isnt impactful.
As I dont think NatWest has been able to establish Mr O ignored any effective warnings in 
this case as a starting point I think its liable for 50% of the payments he made to scammers 
under the CRM code. I acknowledge its already paid this amount to Mr O.
Did Mr O have a reasonable basis for believing the payments he was making were genuine?
NatWest believes Mr O shares some liability in this case and doesnt feel it needs to 
compensate him any further. Ive considered its points and the circumstances of Mr Os 
complaint carefully and I would agree that he does share liability for some of the payments 
he made to scammers. But, I think he had a reasonable basis for believing the first two 
payments, equalling £40,000 were genuine.
Mr O believed he was buying a corporate bond directly from an energy company. He 
looked the company up on Companies House and could see it was in operation. 
There doesnt appear to be much more information online regarding the company, 
but there also werent any scam warnings or information that otherwise suggests it 
wasnt legitimate.
The scammers provided Mr O with convincing paperwork that set out full details and 
information relating to the bonds he could purchase. And having reviewed this I think 
this information was convincing and appeared professional.
The bonds offered didnt provide rates that Id consider too good to be true. Mr O thought he was opting for a five year bond with a 6.2% return. Although a little high 
compared to the average at the time, I dont think it was so high it ought to have been 
obvious the situation was a scam.
After receiving the literature Mr O completed an online application and received a 
bond certificate as he wouldve expected. Hed bought bonds previously and it 
seemed this was all in order.
I can see within the literature the company claimed it was regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) which does seem unusual as it isnt a financial company. 
But given how convincing the other information was and given that he did think he 
was buying a financial product, I think its reasonable he didnt recognise this as a 
concern.
Ive also taken into account that the literature Mr O was provided also guarantees he 
wouldnt suffer any loss as every customer is insured. Again I think the way this 
information is presented is very convincing, but Id also add that savings bonds 
(which Mr O seems to have used before) are generally viewed as a very secure 
investment option. And although this isnt the type of bond Mr O thought he was 
buying here, its not clear if he understood it was a much higher risk. In this context, 
considered alongside all the other information presented I dont think this wouldve 
been enough to show Mr O the situation was a scam.
Given that Mr O could see the company was legitimate and rates seemed reasonable I dont 
think theres anything that ought to have stood out to Mr O as unusual or an obvious risk. So 
overall I think he had a reasonable basis for believing the first two payments, equalling 
£40,000 were legitimate.
In relation to the first two payments, I think NatWest needs to reimburse Mr O for 100% of 
his loss as I think he had a reasonable basis for believing they were genuine. However, I 
think Mr Os reasonable basis for belief had lessened by January 2021.
Mr O said he was told the company had gone into liquidation. But it doesnt seem 
there was anything online that suggested this was the case and the information on 
Companies House relating to the company hadnt changed and showed it was in 
operation. In his phonecalls with the bank Mr O seems to suggest there was a third 
company involved which did show as dissolved. But its not clear what Mr O believed 
this companys involvement to be. And again, I cant find any information online that 
suggests they are linked in any way or why they would be.
Mr O was initially asked to pay £4,000 to recover the money hed invested from the 
liquidator, which doesnt reflect how liquidation would generally work. And I think if he 
had sought advice or tried to look into this process I think it wouldve been clear he 
wouldnt need to send large amounts of money up front to receive a refund of money 
he was entitled to.
Mr O made several payments to the person he was dealing with equalling nearly 
£20,000 in order to obtain the return of his funds. He was told he would receive a 
refund of these fees and I can see he was given different, complex reasons for 
making them. But Im not sure these stories seem plausible, or in line with a usual 
liquidation process in the UK. And all the information I can find relating to the 
company Mr O thought he was dealing with is based in the UK.
I accept Mr O was fully taken in by the company, but I think upon being told it had allegedly 
gone into liquidation it wouldve been reasonable for him to try and find out more about this 
process and the legitimacy of paying for it before parting with more of his money, for 
example, by searching online or asking someone about how a liquidation process might 
normally work.In the case of the final five payments Mr O made to scammers I dont think he had a 
reasonable basis for believing what he was told. So I agree that NatWest is only liable for 
50% of these payments.
Ive also considered NatWests other obligations to protect its customers and look out for 
indications its customer might be at risk. I think it ought to have contacted Mr O when he 
made the first payment to scammers as it was for a significant amount and I think it was 
unusual activity compared to the general use of his account. That said, had it discussed the 
payment with him at the time they were made, I dont think it likely wouldve prevented them 
being made. I think Mr O appeared confident in the investment he was making and had 
convincing information around this as NatWest would likely expect. As I dont think the 
situation wouldve appeared to be a scam, I dont think it missed an opportunity to stop the 
initial payment, or any subsequent payments, from being made.
Both NatWest and Mr O accepted the findings in my provisional decision and had not further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision or add any further 
comments.
Putting things right
In the case of the first two payments Mr O made to scammers hes entitled to full 
reimbursement under the CRM code (£40,000). 
In the case of the final five payments, I dont believe Mr O had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payments were genuine. NatWest should reimburse him for 50% of this 
loss (£10,107). 
NatWest should also return the £5,008.69 it was able to recover from the 
beneficiarys banks.
In total NatWest should reimburse Mr O £55,115.69 of his loss. Ive noted it repaid him 
£5,008.69 on 15 March 2021 and £27,607 on 24 March 2021. It now needs to pay him the 
remaining £22,500.
It appears Mr Os money was held in his current account before the scam and was being 
used for day to day spending. To recognise the time he hasnt had access to the funds 
NatWest should pay simple interest on this amount at a rate of 8% from 24 March 2021, 
when it originally ought to have been repaid, until the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc needs to pay Mr O the redress set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman