DRN-3546759
The complaint
Mr B complains about information MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) reported to his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr B entered a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo in December 2018 to acquire a 
used car. 
In April 2020, Mr B was given a payment holiday because hed been impacted by 
Coronavirus (Covid-19). The payment holiday was extended and came to an end in October 
2020. 
Mr B missed a payment at the end of the payment holiday period. He made an additional 
payment in December 2020 to bring his account up to date. 
Mr B complained to MotoNovo in late 2021, saying theyd continued to report late payments 
on his credit file even after hed brought his account up to date.  
MotoNovo sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in October 2021. They said Mr Bs 
credit file shouldve shown that his payments were up to date from December 2020 onwards. 
They agreed to amend his credit file to show late payments in October and November 2020, 
and up to date payments from December 2020 onwards. They also paid Mr B £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr B complained to MotoNovo in January 2022 to say his credit file was still showing a late 
payment each month. 
MotoNovo sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in January 2022. They said the 
request to amend his credit file had been approved, but this hadnt been passed to the 
correct team for action. They said this had now been done and marked as urgent. They paid 
Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service for investigation in February 2022. He said 
MotoNovo had been unable to confirm that the late payments had been removed from his 
credit file. Mr B said the incorrect information on his credit file was causing him problems at 
work, and that hed been unable to get a 0% interest card because of the effect on his credit 
file, and so he didnt think the compensation hed received was sufficient. 
Mr B told this service that in February and March 2022 MotoNovo had again recorded late 
payments on his credit file, even though his payments had all been made on time. 
MotoNovo said theyd processed the correction to Mr Bs credit file in February 2022 and 
couldnt determine why additional late payments had been recorded. 
Our investigator gave her view that the initial offers from MotoNovo to amend the credit file 
and pay a total of £250 compensation were fair, but, as theyd continued to record incorrect 
information on Mr Bs credit file in February and March 2020, they should pay Mr B an 
additional £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
MotoNovo accepted our investigators view. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the compensation should be considerably higher for the time and 
distress the situation has caused. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Its agreed between all parties that MotoNovo incorrectly recorded late payments on Mr Bs 
credit file after hed brought his account up to date. Ive seen evidence that Mr Bs credit file 
has been updated and now shows the correct information. So, Ive considered whether 
MotoNovo have done enough to put things right. 
MotoNovo paid £50 compensation when Mr B first brought the matter to their attention, and 
an additional £200 compensation when they didnt correct his credit file after they said they 
would. Our investigator recommended an additional £200 compensation for the continued 
incorrect reporting at the beginning of 2022. So, Mr B has been offered a total of £450 
compensation. 
Mr B explained his ability to get credit has been affected by the incorrect reporting on his 
credit file. Ive seen evidence that Mr B wasnt eligible for a 0% balance transfer credit card. 
Lenders consider a number of factors when making a decision to lend, and I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr B has been declined credit solely or directly as a result of the 
information reported by MotoNovo.  
Mr B said hed faced an investigation at work because of the information recorded on his 
credit file. Ive seen evidence that Mr B was subject to a financial review by his employer, 
which directly mentions the dispute about the information on his credit record. So, Im 
satisfied that the incorrect information reported by MotoNovo was directly related to the 
review that Mr B was asked to undertake with his employer. 
I appreciate that this must have been a distressing situation for Mr B. Hes had to contact 
MotoNovo on a number of occasions over a number of months to try and resolve the 
situation, and its caused him distress in being subject to a financial review with his 
employer.
Ive carefully considered the overall impact the situation has had on Mr B, along with this 
services published information on what we consider and the levels of compensation we 
award in certain situations. All things considered, I think £450 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and MotoNovo Finance must pay Mr B £200 
compensation, in addition to the £250 they have already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman