DRN-2669865
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance policy (PPI) taken out in
2003. Mrs H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs H took out a credit card on 14 April 2003. A few days later, Mrs H called Capital One 
to activate her card and during this call was sold a PPI policy.
Mrs H says the advisor was insistent she take out PPI. She also through her representative, 
says she wouldnt be able to make a claim for a pre-existing medical condition, if needed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H disagreed with this view. So as both 
parties do not agree, Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs H says the advisor was insistent she have PPI. Mrs H bought the policy in a 
phone call shortly after starting the card. Capital One hasnt been able to provide 
a recording of the phone call made. But I have been able to see what process the 
representative wouldve followed when it sold the policy to Mrs H. I think, on 
balance, that its likely the representative wouldve followed this. I can see that it 
does say that Capital One wouldve asked Mrs H if she wanted to buy the PPI. 
So, I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. Mrs H says she had a pre-existing medical condition and there is a 
term that would exclude any claims she would make for this condition. But I agree 
with our adjudicator, that Mrs H says she took medication for this condition and 
that it was controlled. So, I dont think it would have put her off from having the 
cover. I think with only statutory sick pay to fall back on, the cover wouldve been 
useful for her. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking it.
In conclusion, I have not been able to find any grounds to uphold this complaint about the 
mis-sale of the PPI policy. This means Capital One dont have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs H. But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H 
because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman