DRN-2136297
The complaint
Ms O complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by FCE Bank Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to end the agreement, reject the 
vehicle and obtain a refund of her payments.
 
What happened
Ms O tells us she acquired this new vehicle in April 2019 from a dealer Ill call A. She says 
that within a few weeks shed reported various issues with the vehicle including it using an 
excess amount of oil; squeaking noises and a knocking noise coming from both the front 
and rear of the vehicle. She states that A has attempted several repairs but the knocking 
noise is still present. Ms O says that she tried to reject the vehicle after the latest attempts at 
repairs but that FCE refused this request. And said that the noise was a characteristic of 
the vehicle.
FCE explained that A had confirmed its mechanics had inspected the vehicle and had 
replaced various components including the prop-shaft; shock absorbers; roll bar and engine 
mount. It said the vehicle had subsequently been examined by the manufacturer. And later 
by an independent engineer from a company Ill refer to as R. And it (FCE) had been 
advised that the vehicle was mechanically sound, and the noise was a vehicle 
characteristic. In view of this it said it wasnt able to uphold Ms Os complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld and recommended that Ms 
O should be allowed to end the agreement and reject the vehicle. He thought the vehicle 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
FCE didnt agree with this outcome. It said the vehicle had been examined and no fault 
identified. It maintained that the noise was a characteristic of the vehicle. Its not been 
possible to resolve this complaint and an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms O would be both disappointed and concerned with the issues which 
arose with this new vehicle from such an early stage.
Ms Os hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. FCE supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Whilst I dont apply the law - directly  I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined 
as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. In the case of a new 
vehicle  as here  aspects of quality would include it being free from minor defects. 
Ive also taken into account the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 
(CPUTR). Summarised, this requires the consumer to be given sufficient material 
information about goods to enable them to make an informed decision whether or not to 
make an acquisition.
Ms Os complaint is that the new vehicle she acquired exhibited various faults including an 
unexplained knocking noise. She wants to reject the vehicle as the noise is still present 
despite attempts at repair. And I infer shes concerned she may be left with the cost if 
something later goes wrong with the vehicle.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Broadly speaking, there isnt much factual dispute in terms of whats happened with this 
vehicle. The main difference between the parties is whether the persistent knocking noise is 
a characteristic of the vehicle. Or possibly symptomatic of something more serious that 
would indicate the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Where information is unclear - as is partly the case here - I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The vehicle was new when supplied and the CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
it should have been supplied free from minor defects. Additionally, the CPUTR says the 
consumer should be given material information which is sufficient to permit them to make an 
informed choice before purchasing goods.
Theres no suggestion here that Ms O was advised before she acquired the vehicle that it 
had a knocking noise of any kind as a characteristic.  And I dont find that simply because a 
vehicle manufacturer states that an issue is a characteristic that this is sufficient in itself to 
resolve the issue. I think most consumers would want to be told that a vehicle was likely to 
exhibit unexplained noises under certain conditions. Even if only to give them peace of mind 
that it was not a symptom of something more serious. I also recognise that manufacturers 
and suppliers might not consider this to be an attractive advertising feature.
Ms O had a legitimate expectation that her new vehicle would be supplied without even 
minor defects. Further, or alternatively, she was entitled to be informed about aspects of the 
vehicle that might reasonably affect her choice. That seems to me to include aspects of the 
vehicles characteristics that might otherwise lead a consumer to suspect there were 
potentially serious faults with the vehicle.
Clearly A, the original dealer, accepted there were potentially significant problems with the 
vehicle. Its hard to imagine it wouldve carried out two sets of extensive repairs on a purely 
speculative basis. And at the repair stage it didnt identify the noise issue as a
characteristic.In many ways the present situation has left Ms O in a worse position than if the vehicle had 
been identified as having specific faults. At least then she might be reasonably confident that 
the issues had been identified and repaired. Here - despite attempts at repair - the noise 
persists. This is confirmed in Rs inspection of July 2019. Whilst this didnt identify any 
mechanical fault it did confirm the present of the noise at low speeds when negotiating 
speed calming road features. It said that testing with a comparison vehicle might confirm the 
engineers opinion that the noise was probably a vehicle characteristic.
Its all too easy where goods display an unexpected or unusual feature which remains 
unexplained, for it to be categorised in this way by the manufacturer or the supplier of goods. 
But the effect of this is to possibly mask a developing fault and transfer the potential risk of 
something going wrong to the consumer. In my opinion, that is not fair and reasonable.
Im upholding this complaint as Im of the opinion that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. In reaching that conclusion, Ive taken into account that the noise 
remains unexplained. And FCE has declined to provide a comparative test so the issue 
could be measured alongside an identical vehicle. Theres also nothing to show Ms O was 
advised of the alleged characteristic prior to acquiring it. And its something that might 
reasonably be expected to have an impact on her purchasing decision. I can see why shes 
lost faith in the vehicle and wishes to reject it.
As I find the vehicle didnt conform to contract within six months of supply, Ms O is entitled to 
reject it if that remains so after one attempt at repairs has been given. Here, Ms O permitted 
more than one attempt at repair so her request to reject the vehicle cant be seen as 
precipitous.
Ive considered that Ms O lost the use of her preferred vehicle for about six months. 
Although she was provided with a courtesy vehicle, I understand this was of a lesser 
specification. After the return of her vehicle, the mileage at the time of the inspection by R on 
13 July 2020 was 11,495 miles. I think this represents fair use. I assume that when this 
decision is issued that figure will have increased. So I shant ask FCE to make any refund in 
respect of monthly payments. Similarly, any servicing or running costs would be items which 
Ms O would ordinarily incur as part of using the vehicle. So FCE neednt do anything more 
about these aspects.
Putting things right
FCE now need to take the following action:
1. End the hire purchase agreement with no further liability to Ms O from date of 
termination. This is subject to payments up to this date being made;
 
2. Arrange collection of the vehicle from Ms O at no cost to her;
3. Refund the deposit paid by Ms O and pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
4. Pay Ms O £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
5. Arrange for the removal of any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Ms 
Os credit file and have the agreement recorded as settled.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require FCE Bank Plc to take the action Ive detailed in the immediately preceding 
paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman