DRN-2624921
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS).
What happened
Mr B took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 2001. It seems that he applied for his 
mortgage through an intermediary in August 2001, and then took out the PPI in a 
subsequent discussion with YBS. YBS said that it advised Mr B to take out the PPI. 
Mr B said he wasnt given a choice about taking the policy. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr B at a monthly cost 
of £19.80 (after an initial period of six months when the cover was free of charge). The 
monthly benefit was £480.00, and if Mr B had made a successful claim, the policy couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS sent in copies of Mr Bs mortgage and PPI application forms, an insurance needs form 
recording details of the sale, the PPI policy document and his mortgage offer. Mr B also sent 
in some copies of letters, including one from the intermediary, along with the insurance 
certificate and a quotation from YBS.
Mr B said he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI. He referred to the discussion with 
the intermediary and also to the letter from the intermediary that he sent in. However, I 
cannot hold YBS responsible for the actions of an unrelated third party, so I will not consider 
these points further, other than to note that I can see nothing in the letter to suggest that 
YBS would require Mr B to take out PPI  there is simply a suggestion that he should 
consider it. 
The mortgage application form has a section headed important insurance information 
where applicants could tick a box to say they wanted more information about PPI  or tick a 
no box to decline it. Theres a tick in the yes box, so it looks as though this prompted the 
later contact from YBS with information about PPI. 
Mr B sent in copies of two letters that YBS sent after he applied for the mortgage, the first 
giving details of the insurances available and the second sending cost illustrations. The 
second of the letters invites contact so that the offer can be issued when ready. I accept the 
tone of the letters was encouraging Mr B to consider the PPI  but theres nothing to suggest 
that the PPI was compulsory. 
The next document is the insurance needs form, which records the sale of the PPI by the 
YBS adviser. This shows that PPI was recommended for Mr B, but again the content of the 
form does not suggest that PPI was compulsory. Mr B then completed a PPI application 
form, dated a few days after the discussion with the adviser, and the mortgage offer was 
later issued to Mr B, saying that he had chosen to take the PPI. 
I accept that I cant know how the YBS adviser presented the PPI, so its possible things 
happened as Mr B said. On the other hand, the PPI was recommended for Mr B, so its also 
possible that Mr B has remembered the suggestion that he should have PPI as a 
requirement that he must have it. 
Having considered all of the evidence from both parties, I dont think I can fairly say its most 
likely that Mr B had to take PPI to get the mortgage, which is what Id have to do to be able 
to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that this is what 
happened. 
As YBS advised Mr B to take the PPI, it shouldve made sure it was suitable for him. I think it 
was. 
As Ive said, I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, especially the things not 
covered - but I cant see that Mr B wouldve been affected by any of these. The cost was 
shown on the quotation, so I think Mr B wouldve understood what he had to pay - and Ive 
no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for him. It also seems likely that Mr B 
was provided with at least a summary of the PPI cover with the letters sent to him before he 
spoke to the adviser. 
Mr B told us that he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of less than three 
months pay and he had savings he couldve relied on. However, the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event of a claim  longer than his sick pay wouldve continued  
so I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit, allowing him to use his savings for his 
everyday living expenses. So I think that PPI was a reasonable recommendation to make. 
And I think Mr B could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was 
secured on his home
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, as I can see he feels strongly about this, but my conclusion is 
that, on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman