DRN-4313324
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to the manner in which 
Santander handled his request to remove his wifes name from their joint mortgage account.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D owned a property I shall call B Rd which they had mortgaged to Santander 
on a two-year fixed rate buy-to let mortgage (the mortgage). It was a term of the mortgage 
that if it was redeemed prior to the end of the fixed term Mr and Mrs D would have to pay a 
3% early repayment charge (ERC). He says the property was purchased for £220,000, 
although at the time of his complaint was valued at around £250,000, with a mortgage 
balance of approximately £165,000. 
Mr D and his wife decided to divorce and so sold their main residence. The majority of the 
net sale proceeds were to be paid to his wife in accordance with the agreement they had 
reached regarding marital assets. Mr D says they also agreed that Mrs D would transfer her 
interest in B Rd to him.  Consequently, Mr D asked Santander if they would agree to remove 
his wife from her obligations in relation to the mortgage account which in principle it said it 
would. To facilitate the transfer of the mortgage into his sole name, Mr D says Santander 
agreed to lend him £129,000. As this was less than the amount owed on the existing 
mortgage Santander advised him that he would have to make up the difference of £36,000, 
which he said he was happy to do. He also says Santander told him there would be no ERC 
payable in this circumstance. 
Mr D explained to Santander that the rental figures they had used were too low and the 
achievable market rent was higher. Santander said he if he reapplied, then based on those 
figures, they would be prepared in principle to lend up to £150,000 and again they would not 
charge an ERC. Mr D decided to make another application, but it was in the course of so 
doing that his main residence was sold. Mr D decided to move in with his son until he found 
somewhere else to live or B Rd became available when the tenants moved out at the end of 
January 2023.
Santander then said it couldnt proceed with the mortgage application because Mr D no 
longer had a residential address, even though when he had commenced the application he 
did. Mr D feels this is unfair because he argues he did have a residential address, that being 
his sons home. Mr D asked Santander if it would waive the ERC if he went to a new lender, 
but it refused. He explained that if he could get the title and a mortgage to B Rd into his sole 
name, then he would be able to reclaim a significant sum from HMRC that he had paid by 
way of additional stamp duty when originally purchasing the property on a buy-to let basis. 
As the window for reclaiming that sum has now closed Mr D feels that Santander should 
reimburse for the amount he was unable to reclaim.
Santander dont believe they have done anything wrong and say they have adhered to their 
policy. Mr D was unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Santander hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr D didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. 
Transfer of the mortgage account in Mr Ds sole name
I understand that Mr and Mrs D reached a legal agreement regarding their marital assets, 
one of which was B Rd. However, that legal agreement does not mean that Santander had 
any obligation to change the contractual arrangements which existed as between itself and 
Mr and Mrs D in so far as it related to the mortgage on B Rd. That said I can see that 
Santander were seemingly in principle agreeable to providing a new mortgage to Mr D, albeit 
of a lesser amount, to which he would have contributed a cash lump sum to allow the 
transfer to proceed.
The sticking point arose when Mr D moved in with his son, following the sale of his main 
residence. In one sense I can see Mr Ds argument that he still had a residence since he 
was living with his son. However, this complaint cannot be determined by simply considering 
the ordinary definition of residence. What I am required to do is to look to see whether 
Santander dealt with Mr D fairly and to do that I need to consider whether it acted in 
accordance with its own policies and procedures. Its not my role to recommend how 
financial businesses should conduct or arrange their commercial operations and processes  
thats for them to determine. I dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, 
assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. I only look at what happened in 
the circumstances of the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and 
procedures and have applied them fairly.
Santanders policy for buy to let mortgages states at 12.7.2 Ownership. We will only accept 
applications where at least one applicant is an owner of a residential property in the UK.
Quite obviously, by this criterion, Mr D did not own a residential property when he applied. I 
anticipate the argument that he did when he commenced the application, but to my mind the 
point at which this criterion is to be considered is the point at which Santander were deciding 
whether or not to grant the mortgage. So, my view is that Santander have applied their policy 
fairly and were correct to decline Mr Ds application.
ERC
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. Theres a cost to the lender in raising the 
funds to lend, which it recovers with the interest payments. If the borrower repays the 
mortgage during the fixed rate term, the lender will stop receiving income in the form of 
monthly interest, and there is a risk the lender wont recover its own costs incurred by raising 
the funds to lend. This means there is usually a clause in the mortgage agreement which 
allows the borrower to exit the mortgage early in return for paying an ERC. Its important to note that an ERC is not designed to be a penalty for the borrower. Its there to cover the 
lenders costs. 
Mr D doesnt dispute the existence of the ERC nor the amount, and it is made clear in the 
mortgage offer he received when and how it would be applied. Mr D has pointed to the fact 
that on two occasions Santander were prepared to waive the ERC and argues that it is unfair 
that it then declined to do so. However, the circumstances were materially different since 
Santander were remaining as the lender whereas when it refused to waive the ERC that was 
when Mr D was wishing to move to another lender. So, I cant say that Santander have acted 
unfairly here. 
HMRC Stamp Duty Reclaim 
The ability to successfully reclaim the stamp duty depended upon Mr D having the mortgage 
account transferred into his sole name. For the reasons I have given above this was not 
possible, but this was not due to any fault on the part of Santander. It must follow that any 
loss Mr D feels he has cannot be Santanders responsibility.
Delay
Mr D has argued that Santander delayed the application process which resulted in his main 
residence selling before his application completed. It is unclear as to the exact date upon 
which Mr and Mrs D sold their main residence. However, I am satisfied that when Mr D 
made his first application the property had not been sold. When he received the offer to lend 
him £129,000 he could have proceeded at that point, but he chose to make a fresh 
application. At that point he still owned his main residence, and it was during that application 
that he sold the property. Mr D has said that the property sold very quickly, but of course the 
ultimate decision as to when the property was sold lay with him and his wife. So, I cant say 
that there is any evidence of delay here on Santanders account. So, although Mr D will 
probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman