DRN-3177376
The complaint
Mr E complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited refused his credit card account 
application.
What happened
Mr E says he received an invitation from John Lewis to apply for its credit card account 
which he did in August 2021. He says he has a good credit history, but his application was 
rejected. Mr E would like to know why and would like the credit card account. He also 
questions if age played a part.
John Lewis says Mr E applied for a credit card account which it considered, and credit 
scored. It says having carried out checks it decided to reject the application which had 
nothing to do with Mr Es age. John Lewis says it makes clear in its application form that any 
application would be considered and is subject to approval.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator looked 
at John Lewis records and thought the application was considered and that John Lewis was 
entitled to reject it. The investigator didnt think there any evidence that Mr Es age was 
considered.
Mr E doesnt accept that view and says we should investigate John Lewis business practice 
and about sending unsolicited applications. He says others may be affected by this type of 
practice.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
what took place. I make clear to Mr E that we are not John Lewis regulator and so its not our 
role, as he suggests, to investigate such practices. And I cant fairly comment on other 
customers Mr E suggests may have been affected.
I am sure Mr E appreciates that any credit card account application has to be checked and 
credit scored. There is no guarantee that any application will be successful and that a variety 
of factors are considered by a lender. I am also sure Mr E appreciates that a lender is 
obliged to carry out such affordability checks.
I can see from John Lewis records that it did carry out appropriate checks on Mr Es 
application and that it checked his credit file. In those circumstances Im satisfied that John 
Lewis was reasonably entitled to reject Mr Es application when it considered its risk 
assessment. I also think that John Lewis has explained in general terms to Mr E why it 
rejected his application and isnt obliged to reveal the exact reasons which I think would be 
commercially sensitive. I make clear to Mr E that I have not seen any evidence of his age 
playing a part in the assessment.
Overall, Im satisfied that John Lewis is entitled to decide with whom it enters into a business 
relationship. I appreciate Mr E was sent an application but that is not something I can fairly 
comment on for the reasons I have explained about our role here. It follows that I dont think 
John Lewis acted unfairly or made a mistake and so I cant order it to open the account Mr E 
would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman