DRN-4075203
The complaint
Miss S and Mr W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax knew their solicitor 
hadnt completed the work to register their property purchase to them, but it never told them. 
Miss S and Mr W said this caused stress, costs, and delays when they tried to remortgage. 
What happened
Miss S and Mr W purchased their new home, and took out a mortgage with Halifax, in 
September 2020. The interest rate was fixed until the end of September 2022. Miss S and 
Mr W planned to remortgage elsewhere after this rate fix ended. And they started this 
process in good time, in April 2022. But then they discovered that their property purchase 
had never been registered with the Land Registry. They asked Halifax about this, and it said 
it had been chasing their solicitor for confirmation of the registration. 
Miss S and Mr W said this delayed their remortgage with a different lender. And it cost them 
£1,356 in additional legal fees, to get a different solicitor to register their ownership of their 
home. They told us that the solicitors firm they had used for conveyancing in 2020 had been 
closed down in 2022 by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) so they couldnt get the 
same solicitor to do the work now. 
Miss S and Mr W said if Halifax had told them about the outstanding registration, they could 
have chased at the time, and they felt the costs and stress theyd had recently could both 
have been avoided. So they wanted Halifax to reimburse the legal fees theyd had to pay 
recently, to get the registration done. 
Halifax said it was very sorry this had happened to Miss S and Mr W, but it didnt think this 
was its fault. It said it had followed its own process, of contacting the solicitor to make sure 
the registration was done. And it said even if Miss S and Mr W had chased their solicitor 
themselves, Halifax didnt think things would have been any different. If that solicitor hadnt 
been prepared to listen to Halifax or to the SRA, then Halifax didnt think it would have done 
the work just because Miss S and Mr W chased it. 
Halifax wouldnt pay Miss S and Mr W the costs theyd incurred, because their first solicitor 
had let them down. Halifax suggested they could complain about that solicitors firm.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she could see Halifax 
had chased the solicitors multiple times to register its charge over the property. It followed its 
own internal processes in contacting the solicitors, rather than talking to Miss S and Mr W. 
And Halifax said it wouldnt interfere in the relationship between a solicitor and client. 
Our investigator said that, given that this firm was closed down by the SRA for not fulfilling 
obligations to clients, she thought it was unlikely the solicitors would have registered the 
property if Miss S and Mr W had also chased them. She understood that Miss S and Mr W 
had incurred the expense of another solicitor registering the property, but she didnt think 
that was because of any mistake Halifax had made. So she said she wouldnt ask Halifax to 
reimburse them for that cost. 
Mr W and Miss S didnt agree. They said their complaint was Halifax never told them that it 
was waiting for details of their property to be registered with the Land Registry. They said it 
wasnt good enough to just chase the solicitor. Miss S and Mr W said this would only affect 
them, and it was in Halifaxs best interest not to tell them about this missing information, 
because when their fixed rate was up they would either have had to go on to a variable rate 
with Halifax until registration was done, or sign another term with Halifax. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She still thought this wasnt Halifaxs fault, and it 
wasnt under any obligation to contact its customers in relation to the registration of a 
property. But Miss S and Mr W maintained that Halifax should have told them that it required 
further information. They said that this extremely poor process only benefitted Halifax and 
gave no consideration to the customer impact.
Miss S and Mr W wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand Miss S and Mr W are upset and disappointed that their property purchase 
wasnt registered, and Im sorry to hear that this has happened. I accept that this would have 
led to stress, costs and delays with their remortgage. But, like our investigator, I dont think 
this is Halifaxs fault. 
The first point to make, is that what has happened to Miss S and Mr W is very much out of 
the ordinary. Bearing that in mind, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Halifaxs 
process just to involve chasing the solicitors firm, and not to include a further stage of 
notifying Miss S and Mr W of any problems. I would anticipate that circumstances like this 
are very rare indeed. 
And the second point is that I dont think Halifaxs process benefits it, in the way Miss S and 
Mr W have suggested. Broadly speaking, when a solicitor acts for both the buyer and the 
mortgage lender in a purchase, that solicitor is doing two things. Its ensuring the legal work 
for the purchase is done, for the buyer. And its ensuring the relevant charge is registered 
against the property, for the lender, so the property cant be sold without the associated 
mortgage being redeemed. Thats how the lender ensures that it has security for its loan.
So when Halifax chased the solicitor, it was primarily concerned with checking if work it had 
commissioned had been done, not if work Miss S and Mr W had commissioned had been 
done. And all the time that work wasnt completed for Halifax, the lenders charge wasnt 
properly registered over the property. I would strongly disagree with Miss S and Mr W that 
Halifax could have expected to benefit from a situation where its charge hadnt been formally 
registered over the property. 
Finally, I should just note that I would agree with Halifax, and our investigator, that I dont 
think things would have been different if Mr W and Miss S had been told their purchase 
wasnt yet registered. If the solicitors firm was not moved to complete the work it had 
undertaken to do, by any concern about being removed from Halifaxs panel of approved 
conveyancers, and was also not moved to complete this work by any concern about being closed down entirely by the SRA, then I just dont think it was likely Mr W and Miss S could 
have persuaded it to complete this work either.
For those reasons, I agree with our investigator that Halifax isnt responsible for whats gone 
wrong here. I dont think its been unreasonable or unfair. I know Miss S and Mr W will be 
disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman