DRN-3013052
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as 
Hargreaves Lansdown wrongly put shares from his daughters trust  which Ill call trust A  
into another trust  which Ill call trust B. This meant that Mr B  a trustee for both trusts  
gave the money from selling the shares to the wrong beneficiary.
What happened
Mr B manages a few different trusts. He set up separate accounts for them, using various 
different companies. Each separate account looks to have been labelled with the three-letter 
initials of the beneficiary for the respective trust. Key for this complaint is that the initials of 
the beneficiaries of trust A and trust B were different by only their middle letter. 
In 2017, Mr B had to move the account for trust A to a new provider. He chose to send 
shares held in that account to Hargreaves Lansdown. He already had accounts with 
Hargreaves Lansdown  including one for trust B. But there wasnt an existing account with 
them for trust A. 
When the shares moved to Hargreaves Lansdown  in early 2018  they were labelled with 
the initials of the beneficiary for trust A. Seeing the label was only one letter different to one 
of the accounts Mr B already had with them, Hargreaves Lansdown wrongly assumed 
thered been a mistake. They decided to put the shares in the existing account for trust B.
Hargreaves Lansdown accept that was a mistake on their part. They acknowledge they 
should have checked with Mr B, rather than assuming the shares were meant for trust Bs 
account.
Mr B then sold the shares in 2019, and gave the proceeds to the beneficiary of trust B. The 
complaint arose in early 2020, when Mr B wanted to sell the shares he thought should be 
held by trust A. 
Hargreaves Lansdown have noted they sent three statements to Mr B in 2018, which 
showed only two accounts labelled with initials  one for trust B and one for a third trust, 
which had very different initials. They offered £150 compensation to restore Mr Bs faith in 
their service, but said they wouldnt cover the cost for trust A of the shares that had been 
sold. 
Mr B brought the complaint to us. Our investigator felt the information Hargreaves Lansdown 
had sent in 2018 should have made it clear to Mr B that thered been a mistake, before the 
shares were sold. The investigator said that meant Hargreaves Lansdown didnt need to 
repay the lost share value to trust A. 
Mr B didnt accept that view, and set out how Hargreaves Lansdown could have avoided 
making the mistake by simply setting up a new account when the shares were transferred. 
With no agreement about how to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see its not really in dispute that Hargreaves Lansdown made a mistake 
here. They were told the correct label for the shares, and wrongly assumed they belonged 
under another reference. I largely agree with Mr Bs points about how Hargreaves Lansdown 
could have avoided making the mistake. But the issue for me to consider here is how 
responsible Hargreaves Lansdown should be for what followed as a result of their error. 
A key point in considering that is whether Mr B could have done more to spot and fix the 
mistake, before he gave the wrongly allocated funds to the beneficiary of trust B. 
I havent seen the three statements from 2018 that Hargreaves Lansdown referred to in their 
response to Mr Bs complaint. But I have seen the way Hargreaves Lansdown wrote to him 
about each of the trust accounts he had with them. Mr Bs name is written in the addressee 
section of the letter, followed by the three initials that relate to the specific accounts. 
I havent seen any letters that refer to the three letters Mr B wouldve used to label trust A. 
Ive only seen letters quoting the three initials that labelled trust B, and the very different 
initials relating to the other trust Mr B looked after. 
I feel that gave Mr B some notice that there was a problem here. He was receiving letters for 
two of the trusts he was looking after, but none for trust A. I feel he  as trustee  could have 
recognised the need to ask Hargreaves Lansdown why that was. Had he done so when the 
statements were received in 2018, it seems likely the mistake would have been spotted 
before the wrongly allocated funds were paid to the beneficiary of trust B in 2019. 
More generally, as trustee of trust B, Mr B could be expected to have an idea of how much 
should be in the trust when he gave the proceeds to its beneficiary. Hargreaves Lansdowns 
mistake here seems to have added thousands to the account linked to trust B. Had Mr B had 
a better idea of what should have been in that trust  and then questioned why there was so 
much more  the mistake could again have been corrected before the beneficiary received 
the money.
So while I appreciate the problem wouldnt exist at all if Hargreaves Lansdown hadnt made 
a mistake, I dont consider it fair to hold them fully responsible for the loss trust A has 
suffered. There were enough opportunities for Mr B to spot the problem  and then take 
reasonable steps to mitigate the loss its caused  that it seems unfair to say Hargreaves 
Lansdown should compensate trust A for that loss.
With that said, the mistake would always have caused some inconvenience for the trust 
when putting things right. As Mr B was trustee of both trusts, this probably wouldnt have 
been too difficult  hed likely have set up an account for trust A and moved ownership of the 
shares over to that. But some compensation is suitable to reflect the extra effort needed.
Hargreaves Lansdown offered £150 compensation along these lines in their complaint 
response. Thats the sort of figure wed direct in cases where the impact of a mistake on a 
customer is more minor, and fixed relatively quickly. 
Thats no longer the case for this situation  Mr B may well need to spend quite a bit of time 
and effort with the beneficiaries of trusts A and B to resolve things. But if the problem had 
been spotted and fixed by Mr B in 2018  when Ive found there were enough indications of it 
to allow him to do so  the £150 figure would be suitable to resolve the added inconvenience 
Hargreaves Lansdowns mistake had caused. With that in mind, I find compensation of £150 is the right amount to resolve this complaint. 
Mr Bs complaint has been brought to us on behalf of trust A  his daughters trust  so thats 
where the payment should be made, via Mr B as its trustee. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint on behalf of his daughters trust about Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited trading as Hargreaves Lansdown. But the acknowledgment of 
the mistake and the £150 compensation theyve offered does enough to meet their 
responsibility for putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman