DRN-3302335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained about the service they received from Nationwide Building Society 
when reporting a lost bank card.
Whilst the account in question is joint between Mr and Mrs G, for ease Ive referred only to 
Mr G in this decision. 
What happened
Mr G contacted Nationwide by phone to report a card as lost, and to order a new one. When 
doing so, Nationwide asked Mr G to provide some details so it could verify him. Mr G 
couldnt provide some of the information needed and so failed to pass security, meaning 
Nationwide couldnt issue a replacement card. 
Mr G complained to Nationwide. He felt that many of the questions were inappropriate, as he 
thought they could only be answered if he had access to online banking, which he didnt use. 
Mr G said as he had to go into branch to order a replacement card, he was without a card for 
a week. 
Nationwide didnt think it had acted inappropriately in the questions it asked Mr G. It said 
there were other ways Mr G would be able to find the information needed to pass security, 
without having access to internet banking. It acknowledged Mr G had to wait for a new card 
but said customers are advised a card can take up to five working days to arrive, and Mr G 
had ordered it two days after he tried to report it over the phone.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr G unfairly due him not using internet 
banking, so she didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything differently.
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said his concern was there needs to be a 
balance between a business and the customer, and he feels banks are trying to push 
customers in the way they want them to operate (i.e. by relying on online services).  But 
provisions need to be made for those unwilling or unable to go along with those.
So the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but many of the concerns hes raised go beyond the remit of 
what this service can consider. Hes made various points about the banking industry, such 
as recent branch closures and the drive to internet banking and how it could impact 
vulnerable or elderly customers. But this service is set up to resolve individual complaints, 
not to regulate the banking industry.  
Mr Gs individual complaint  which I can review  is that Nationwide treated him unfairly by 
asking the questions it did when he called to report his card as lost. He says it shouldnt 
have asked him the questions it did because it was difficult for him to answer them as he 
doesnt use online banking.
Having listened to the initial call with Nationwide, Im satisfied it followed its process in terms 
of the type of questions asked and the number of them. And Im satisfied Mr G couldnt 
provide enough information to pass security.
I can see why Mr G feels some of the questions may have been easier to answer if he had 
access to internet banking, as some of the answers to those questions could have been 
found more quickly by accessing an online bank account. However, Im not satisfied this 
means Nationwide acted unfairly. 
Nationwide has provided the script it uses when taking people through security. In Mr Gs 
case, as a replacement card was being requested, it is classed as higher risk, meaning 
Nationwide will take extra steps to verify it is speaking to the right person. It does so as it has 
a responsibility to protect its customers from being victims of financial crime. In doing so, 
Nationwide is entitled to set its own criteria of how it protects its customers.
Nationwide has said the same script is used irrespective of the customers banking 
arrangements. Having reviewed the questions, I think it is possible to answer them without 
having access to internet banking. And Mr G has said himself that he was able to answer 
one question correctly as he had access to a recent paper bank statement. Having reviewed 
the questions asked, I dont think Nationwide has discriminated against    Mr G for not using 
internet banking. And Im satisfied Nationwide treated Mr G fairly and reasonably in asking 
the questions it did.
Whilst it couldnt pass Mr G through security to order a replacement card, it did agree to 
cancel the existing one which had been lost. I consider this was reasonable for Nationwide 
to do to ensure the card couldnt be used by an unauthorised party. The option it gave Mr G 
was to go into a branch with identification to order a new card. I think this was a reasonable 
alternative and something Mr G was able to do. 
I accept having to go into branch caused Mr G inconvenience. He says this meant he was 
without a card for around a week. But because Im satisfied Nationwide acted reasonably in 
its handling of the initial call and the verification process, I dont think it is responsible for the 
inconvenience Mr G was caused. From what Ive seen, Nationwide advises it can take five 
working days to issue a replacement card and in Mr Gs case this was done within these 
timescales, so I dont think Nationwide caused any unreasonable delays.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Nationwide Building Society to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman