DRN-2142954
The complaint
Mr V complains that National Westminster Bank Plc suggested a cheque deposited in his 
account from a buyer had cleared. And this led him to give the buyer his watch without 
payment.
What happened
Mr V has a current account with NatWest. Mr V explains that hed agreed to sell a watch to a 
buyer, Ill call A, and on the 11 December 2019 a cheque was deposited into Mr Vs account 
for £3,050. On the 12 December 2019 Mr V noticed that his available funds had increased 
by £3,050 so he gave the watch to A. But, on the 13 December 2019 the cheque was 
redebited from Mr Vs account. 
Mr V contacted NatWest and was initially informed the payment was a bank transfer, before 
being advised it was a cheque which hadnt been honoured. He also contacted A, who he 
explains initially said theyd transfer the funds via bank transfer  but didnt do so and then 
didnt respond to messages. 
Mr V complained to NatWest that the funds showed as available when they shouldnt have 
done. And therefore handed over the watch without payment. But NatWest didnt uphold Mr 
Vs complaint. They explained that the new cheque clearing process takes two days before it 
confirms a cheque is paid. 
Mr V wasnt happy with NatWests response so complained to our service. He added that 
hed also received poor service, in being incorrectly advised by the call handlers that the 
money was the result of a bank transfer and having to educate them on the cheque clearing 
process.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint. But they concluded NatWest didnt 
need to do anything further. In summary our investigator said NatWest had followed their 
cheque clearing process, and the terms and conditions of Mr Vs account show the funds 
wont be available until three days after the cheque is deposited. 
Mr V didnt accept our investigators opinion and in summary he said:
-The money shouldnt have shown as available until the cheque clearing process was 
complete. And thats why he thought it was a cash deposit because it showed on the 
same day.
-He was very unhappy about being misadvised by NatWest. And having to educate 
the staff was unacceptable. 
As Mr V didnt accept our investigators conclusion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly similar 
reasons.
 
I can understand why Mr V is likely very disappointed that hes not received payment for his 
watch. I appreciate why Mr V feels like the innocent party here  and Ive no reason to think 
this isnt the case  however its my role to determine whether NatWest have properly 
followed their policies and procedures and acted fairly in doing so. Im afraid, as Ive 
indicated above, I think they have. And Ill explain why below.
 
NatWest have provided two separate documents to our service showing their cheque 
clearing process  one the Terms and Conditions of Mr Vs account, which state funds will 
become available within four days and after six days a cheque cant be reversed, and the 
other NatWests updated image clearing system process. Which was introduced more 
recently but prior to the time Mr Vs cheque was deposited. The image clearing process is 
the cheque clearing process NatWest were working on at the time and states:
Day 1 - Day of 
Deposit Current Balance will include the cheque, Available Balance isnt 
updated. 
Day 2  Day of 
Deposit plus oneAt the end of this day if the cheque is cleared the funds will 
appear in Available Balance. 
Day 3  Day of 
Deposit plus twoIf the cheque isnt honoured it will be redebited from the 
customers account.
Ive seen evidence from NatWest that the cheque was rejected and redebited two days after 
it was deposited. Which Im satisfied follows NatWests image clearing process. 
Ive thought about whether Mr V was provided with the opportunity to understand this 
process. And Im satisfied he was. As I previously explained, the terms and conditions of 
Mr Vs account state the cheque wont be guaranteed until six days after deposit  so much 
longer than Mr V waited before giving the watch to A. And NatWests website also reaffirms 
the image clearing process by stating that by the end of day 2 the cheque is either paid or 
declined by the drawers bank. And states that once the cheque is paid it becomes cleared 
funds. 
Mr Vs said that when he checked his balance after the cheque was deposited, the funds 
were shown as available. And I can see that Mr V logged into his online banking on both the 
11 and 12 December 2019. Understandably, Mr Vs not been able to provide any evidence 
of this  and its clear from NatWests procedures this wouldnt or at least shouldnt be the 
case. Its not possible for me to categorically say whether this is what Mr V saw or not. 
However, having listened to the first call Mr V made to NatWest he says they were showing 
as in my account but not available yet. And, this leads me to think that Mr V might have 
become slightly confused about whether the funds were showing as available when he 
checked his online banking.  
Im satisfied that NatWests cheque clearing process is visible for customers to see on their 
website  and this makes it clear that it isnt until the end of Day 2 when the bank can 
confirm if the cheque is paid funds. And I think on balance if Mr V had checked his available 
balance at the end of the day it would have been apparent the funds hadnt cleared. I 
understand that for this reason Mr V says he thought it was cash  but I cant hold NatWest 
responsible for this. Mr V unfortunately appears to have fallen victim to a scam orchestrated 
by A. Ive moved on to consider the service provided by NatWest when Mr V contacted them to 
question the reversal of the cheque. And I agree with our investigator that the bank made 
some errors here  including misadvising Mr V about how the payment had been made. But, 
Im not satisfied that the impact on Mr V was significant  and therefore I wont be 
recommending NatWest pay any compensation here. 
I realise this will disappointing to Mr V but I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman