DRN-3661209
The complaint
Mr J complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a timeshare product and the loan used to 
finance the purchase. The loan was provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (now Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc), which Ill refer to as Hitachi Capital.
Mr J has been represented by a claims management business, which Ill refer to as F. 
Where I refer to Mr Js submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J were existing members of the Diamond Resorts European Collection 
(DREC), having originally bought a timeshare product from its predecessors in 2004. 
DREC is a timeshare and holiday club. 
Mr and Mrs J made a further purchase in 2011, increasing their membership points and 
improving their options for using those membership points to book holiday accommodation 
and other benefits.
In March 2016 they bought another 7,000 points, funded in part with a loan from Hitachi 
Capital in Mr Js name. The purchase agreement recorded that the seller was  Diamond 
Resorts (Europe) Limited (DRL).
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs J wrote to DRL, expressing dissatisfaction with their timeshare and 
purporting to give notice of rescission of their membership of DREC. 
In or about September 2019 they referred the matter to Hitachi Capital. In doing that and in 
subsequent submissions, they said, in summary:
Hitachi Capital did not properly assess whether the loan was affordable.
DRL misrepresented the club membership. Mr J therefore has a claim against DRL and, 
under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a like claim against Hitachi 
Capital. 
The sales process was pressured, and they did not have a proper opportunity to 
consider the sale and finance documents.
They had difficulty booking accommodation. They were told that buying more points 
would guarantee availability, but that had not been the case.   
Some of the terms of the timeshare agreement were unfair within the meaning of the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). 
DRL had failed to disclose the commission it received from Hitachi Capital. 
The loan agreements created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Membership of DREC was of little or no value, as it was possible to book the same 
holiday accommodation more cheaply online.
Hitachi Capital sought comments from DRL. It said, in summary:
The sales process was lengthy, but that was necessary to ensure full explanations were 
given and to comply with The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010.  
It denied the sales tactics were pressured or unfair. Contrary to what they had said, Mr 
and Mrs J were not taking advantage of a free holiday in March 2016 and were not 
obliged to attend the presentation.
Customers have a 14-day cooling-off period in which to withdraw from any agreement, 
should they wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs J had been timeshare owners since 2004, so would have been familiar with 
the way the club operated.
Mr and Mrs J had made regular bookings and had never raised any concerns about 
availability.  
They also knew that a commission might be paid and could have asked how much it 
would be.  
When the case was referred to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr J did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Affordability
Mr J says that proper assessments were not made to ensure he could afford the loan. 
If a borrower complains that affordability checks were inadequate, I would generally expect 
them to provide evidence of any difficulty they may have had in making payments  
especially where they have professional representation. 
Mr J has not suggested however that he has had any difficulty in making repayments. The 
fact that he has been able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, mean that the 
loan was in fact affordable, still less that Hitachi Capital properly assessed it. It is however 
an indication that it was, and that more detailed assessments are unlikely to have made any 
real difference overall.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. The 2016 purchase agreement was made between Mr and Mrs J jointly as buyer and DRL 
as seller. It was an agreement for the sale and purchase of Points Rights in DREC. DRL is 
also named as the supplier in Hitachi Capitals documentation. 
I am satisfied therefore that the loans were arranged by DRL under existing arrangements 
with Hitachi Capital. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. I must therefore consider 
what Mr J has said about the actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not do what it has agreed to 
under the contract. There can be a breach if it is clear that one party will not do what it has 
agreed to do. 
In order to establish whether a party has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, it is necessary therefore to consider the contract terms. 
Contractual documents         
F has not provided a full set of the contractual terms that Mr and Mrs J signed. However, like 
F, I am familiar with the standard terms which DRL used at the time, and I think it is 
reasonable to assume that the terms to which Mr and Mrs J agreed were not materially 
different.   
I note that Mr J says the Points Rights were poor value for money, because he and Mrs J 
could have secured the same accommodation more cheaply. I make no comment on that, 
save to say that poor value is not, of itself, a ground for a claim.
As I have indicated, I believe the sale and purchase contract was based on a standard form 
produced by DRL. The standard contract included a 3-page purchase agreement, a Key 
Information document, and a Customer Compliance Statement. 
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Mr and Mrs J acknowledged receipt of the Key 
Information Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations 
Directory, Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. 
Clause 6 was an entire agreement clause, telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal 
promises, they should be put it in writing.
Clause 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. 
It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional 
circumstances it might be possible to relinquish membership. 
Part 1, section 8 outlined the Management Charge and explained how it would be 
calculated. It said expressly that the charge was not linked to inflation.   The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. 
The statements included: 
a statement that, having looked at the Points tables, the member was aware of the 
possibilities available with the number of Points allocated to them (1);
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (my 
emphasis) (4);
confirmation that they were able to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);
a statement that the member understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that 
it was entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for them, and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and were happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
A signature on these statements does not of course mean that they were true. But if they 
were not true, I would have expected Mr J, in bringing this complaint and addressing Hitachi 
Capitals response to it, to explain why he signed the documents and why, having done so, 
he did not exercise his right of withdrawal if he was unhappy. 
I note that some of the contractual provisions  for example, that Management Charges 
were not linked to inflation  were completely at odds with what Mr J says he was told. And, 
as an existing member since 2004, he would have known how they were calculated.   
It is relevant too that the purchase contract was clear that Mr and Mrs J would not be able to 
rely on any oral representations and that they confirmed they had been given plenty of time 
to consider the purchases. If Mr and Mrs J felt they had been rushed into the agreements, 
they had 14 days in which to review things and withdraw if they werent happy.  
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case.
Mr J says that the accommodation was of poor quality, and that this amounts to a breach of 
contract. There is however nothing to support that assertion  such as photographs of the 
accommodation or evidence that he expressed dissatisfaction with any stay at DRL resorts.  
Mr J says too that it was difficult to book accommodation, even though he was told 
availability would be guaranteed. Mr and Mrs Js booking history shows however that they 
booked 11 holidays between December 2016 and September 2019 at a range of resorts, 
both in the UK and abroad. Mr J has provided no evidence of any occasion on which he has 
not been able to book accommodation. DRL says that, since 2004, the only year when Mr 
and Mrs J have had unused points was 2009. 
Finally, Mr J says that he was told that DRLs resorts were exclusive to members, but that 
was not the case. I am not persuaded he was told that, and neither has he explained why 
that was so important to him. I note too that, having been a member since 2004 and having 
used his membership almost every year since then, Mr J would almost certainly have known 
by 2016 that non-members had some access to the same resorts.  It follows that Hitachi Capitals decision not to uphold Mr and Mr Js claim under section 
75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act was reasonable.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider any linked 
agreement  which in this case would include the contract with DRL. For the reasons I have 
explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140B on the 
basis of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
F says that the commission paid to DRL for introducing the loans was not disclosed. DRL 
told Mr J that commission might be paid, but it was under no duty to say how much it would 
be unless asked. Contrary to Fs submissions, this was not a case where DRL was acting on 
behalf of Mr J in introducing or recommending a financial product from a range of products. It 
was selling Points Rights on its own account and providing Mr J with payment options. In 
doing so, it was acting as Hitachi Capitals agent, not Mr Js.  
In any event, I have no reason to think that, if Mr J had asked about the level of commission, 
he would not have been told what it was. 
I do not accept that Mr J was given no time to consider what he was buying. He had a two-
week cooling-off period in respect of both the purchase agreement and the loan. 
F says that some of the terms of the contract with DRL are unfair within the meaning of 
UTCCR. The relevant statute by the time of this sale was the Consumer Rights Act 2015, 
although the provisions about unfair terms are broadly similar to those in UTCCR. If a term is 
unfair, the usual remedy is that it is unenforceable as against a consumer, not that the 
entire contract falls or that any connected finance agreement creates an unfair relationship. 
In any event, there is no evidence here that DRL has sought to enforce any terms in an 
unfair manner. 
Finally, I note that, in its submissions in response to the investigators preliminary 
assessment, F referred to a different timeshare provider and to a subsequent purchase of 
fractional points. There was no purchase of a fractional timeshare product in this case. 
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make orders under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act. It follows again that Hitachi Capitals response to this part of the 
complaint was reasonable. 
Conclusion 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr J has a claim against DRL or, therefore, 
whether he has a claim under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act against Hitachi 
Capital. Nor do I have any power to make orders under section 140A and section 140B; only 
a court can do that. They are however matters which I must take into account in deciding 
what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I have done that and 
concluded that Hitachi Capitals response to Mr Js claims was reasonable. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint and do not 
require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman