DRN-1682494
Complaint
Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in 1996, at the same time as taking out a credit card in branch. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ds credit card application offered him the choice to take PPI or turn it down. The option 
to buy PPI was chosen, the option to decline it was left blank, and Mr D signed the form to 
confirm his choices. Its possible a staff member filled in the form rather than Mr D. But in 
order to do that, they would need to have discussed the form with him to get his personal 
details, contact details, employment details, card preferences, and so on. So I think its most 
likely they discussed the section for PPI, too. I think that section made the choice clear, and 
Im afraid there was an onus on Mr D to read the form he was signing.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the time  from what Ive 
seen, in order to get this policy customers needed to actively choose it. And Ive not seen 
any evidence which shows that this sale significantly departed from the normal process, nor 
any which shows that Mr D was otherwise misled here. So I think its most likely that 
Barclays made Mr D aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take 
it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr D, which means they had to check it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr D was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While Mr D had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
covered him for significantly longer. I also understand his family wouldve been happy to 
help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this card 
was Mr Ds sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Barclays to have 
recommended he rely on other people to pay it. While Mr D started with a relatively modest 
credit limit, this was liable to increase. And since the PPI was charged based on the balance, a lower balance meant a lower cost. Ultimately, it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for 
Mr D, and meant hed have one less thing to worry about if off sick or out of work.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr D about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr D chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Mr D in case 
something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr D could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Lastly, Mr D mentioned that weve found many other PPI policies to have been mis-sold, and 
that hes received refunds for his other policies. And I do understand where hes coming 
from. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, 
were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So though some policies 
were mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that another particular one was, too. Ive 
explained above why Ive not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman