DRN-1829592
The complaint
Mr S complains about Axa Insurance UK plc's (Axa) handling of a claim for subsidence on a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has a home insurance policy with Axa. In 2016 he made a claim for subsidence. Axa's 
enquiries established that the damage was caused by trees at the property. In November 
2018 Mr A made a complaint to Axa about how the claim had been handled.
Axa investigated his complaint and agreed that it could have done better. It paid £900 
compensation to recognise this. In July 2019 Mr S made a further complaint to Axa about 
how it had handled the claim since his previous complaint. He wasn't happy about further 
delays, that a leaking toilet hadn't been fixed or with the proposed works to repair the 
property.
Axa again agreed that it could have done more, and paid a further £1000 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to Mr S. As he was dissatisfied with this outcome, Mr S referred 
his complaints to our service. I've separately explained why our service can't consider his 
complaint from November 2018.
When Mr S referred his complaint to us, he raised further concerns about the ongoing 
handling of the claim as well as being unhappy about the duration of the claim more 
generally. Axa investigated these concerns, appointed a new agent and paid an additional 
£200 compensation on top of the £1,000 it had already paid. Mr A didn't accept this. 
Our investigator thought that the £1200 compensation paid by Axa was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr S didn't accept this. He said his health had been seriously affected by 
Axa's poor service, and that Axa should pay significantly more compensation, including for 
his loss of earnings. He's asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. Axa has accepted it should have 
provided a better service to Mr S since November 2018, so I'm not required to make any 
findings about this. What I need to do is decide whether the £1200 it's paid as compensation 
for its poor service is adequate.
It's inevitable that making an insurance claim will always involve an element of 
inconvenience, and in a case of subsidence this is especially true. The enquiries needed to 
establish the cause of the subsidence can take a significant amount of time and require a lot 
of contact with the policyholders. And the works to rectify such issues will also involve a large degree of inconvenience. If carried out promptly and fairly, the inconvenience caused 
by these enquiries and works wouldn't usually mean the insurer has done anything wrong.
In this case, Mr S complains about a lack of communication and progress with the claim. 
After November 2018 there was a lack of contact with Mr S from Axa's agents who were 
managing the claim during that period, and despite requests from Axa to its agents when 
Axa was contacted by Mr S, this contact wasn't made. It's also apparent that in January 
2019 it was suggested that repairs to Mr S' property could begin shortly, but further delays 
occurred and by July 2019 an estimate for repairs had not been completed.
Mr S complained to Axa about an unfixed leaking toilet in July 2019, which had caused 
mould. Axa has accepted this should have been looked into and resolved earlier.
I appreciate that the lack of response from Axa's agents and general progress with the claim 
was stressful and caused Mr S inconvenience. I agree that being in regular contact to try and 
get this claim moving forward, while remaining in a damaged property with a leaking toilet, 
does suggest Mr S was being significantly inconvenienced. But I'm persuaded that the 
£1200 paid by Axa to date fairly reflects the impact of these issues.
Mr S argues that the compensation should be higher and take into account his loss of 
earnings. He's been unable to work due to ill health for some time, and attributes this to poor 
handling of the claim. He's provided information from his doctors, but this does not link his ill 
health as a consequence of the insurance claim with Axa. One report hes sent is heavily 
redacted, which Mr S is of course free to do, but having read all the information carefully I 
think that theres insufficient evidence to show the claim handling has resulted in Mr S poor 
health. 
Mr S is also unhappy about two other aspects of the way in which the claim was being 
handled. He believes that the property is still moving and further damage is being caused, 
and so it should be underpinned. He's also unhappy about the amount being estimated by 
Axa for alternative accommodation for when the repairs are being carried out.
I'll cover these briefly, as both these points can be addressed by what has happened since 
Mr S raised these issues. The agent with whom Mr S was particularly unhappy has now 
been replaced by Axa and this agent is undertaking enquiries to establish the extent of the 
work required, and how long alternative accommodation will be needed. Axa's said it will 
look at this once these enquiries are completed and liaise with Mr S about the next steps. I 
think this is fair in the circumstances. Without knowing what work is required, it's impossible 
to budget for alternative accommodation. And it may be that the work required will include 
underpinning. If Mr S doesnt agree with Axas outcomes on alternative accommodation 
and/or the extent of work Axa says is required, then hell need to complain about that to Axa 
first.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman