DRN-4264033
The complaint
Mr C says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) allowed him to access his personal 
pension, when it was likely he didnt have the mental capacity to make such an important 
decision. He says this has caused him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr C says in mid-2018 he became unwell and approached Aviva to explore the potential to 
access his personal pension plan. His policy provided for early access to benefits in the 
event he was unable to work due to ill-health or incapacity. His plan was worth around 
£30,000. He was 33 years old at the time.
Mr C had a series of discussions with Avivas call handlers from June 2018 onwards. During 
these he was informed about the implications of taking his pension benefits early, in 
particular the impact on his Money Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA).
The MPAA was created to stop people from trying to avoid tax on current earnings or gain 
tax relief twice, by withdrawing pension savings and then paying them straight back into their 
retirement pots again.
At the time of the events Mr C complained about, up to £40,000 in annual contributions could 
be made to a persons pension and be eligible for tax relief. But once someone had 
accessed pension benefits to provide an income, then the MPAA was limited to £4,000.
Mr C decided to progress with taking benefits from his Aviva personal pension. Initially he 
decided to take tax-free cash (TFC) only, this meant he wouldnt trigger the MPAA 
restriction. However, as he was taking benefits before his 55th birthday he still needed to 
obtain certification about his ill-health from a medical professional.
On 2 July 2018 Mr Cs GP signed a declaration of ill-health as required under the Finance 
Act 2004. It confirmed he was and would continue to be incapable of carrying out his 
occupation because of physical or mental impairment. And that Mr C had actually already 
ceased to carry on his occupation. Aviva accepted the declaration.
Mr C accessed his TFC. And later in July 2018 he decided to take further funds from his 
pension, this time triggering the MPAA restriction. He subsequently drew further funds and 
by November 2018 only a negligible sum remained in his policy.
In February 2023, Mr C complained to Aviva about what had happened in 2018. The basis of 
his case was that the nature of his illness at that time meant it was likely he didnt have the 
mental capacity to make important or legal decisions. He said Aviva had failed to enquire to 
a significant-enough depth what the nature of his illness was. Nor, he says, was this 
recorded on the form which was submitted to his GP.
Mr C says that he has now recovered from the episode of illness he had in 2018 and that 
with ongoing treatment and management hes been able to return to work. But he says hes 
now faced with a situation where potentially for the rest of his working life, hell be financially 
disadvantaged by the application of the MPAA.
In responding to Mr Cs complaint in March 2023 Aviva said:
You made us aware at the time that you suffered with bipolar disorder; a chronic, recurrent, 
and potentially debilitating illness characterised by fluctuations in mood and energy. This 
impacted your ability to continue your occupation at the time. While I appreciate this 
condition has the potential to impair cognitive behaviour, the Mental Capacity Act stipulates 
we must assume everyone has mental capacity until proven otherwise, even if they suffer 
from a mental illness.
An important principle in the evaluation of mental capacity is the freedom of every person to 
make bad decisions. The fact that a person might make an irrational decision is not proof 
enough of incapacity. These facts may raise doubts but must not be decisive in the process. 
To determine that a person does not have the capacity to make their own decisions, a 
mental disorder of enough severity must appear. Given the many conversations we had with 
you throughout 2018, as well as the transfer of funds you arranged to move into the pension 
you held with us, and that your GP was happy to provide us with your ill-health declaration, 
we had no legal recourse to request proof of capacity.
An Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought Aviva acted 
reasonably in relying on the certification from his GP that he needed to access his pension 
benefits early. 
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Cs complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Aviva for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Mr Cs complaint makes specific reference to his mental capacity in 2018 and the impact this 
is likely to have had on his decision making. While its not the role of this Service to say 
whether a firm has acted unlawfully or not  which is a matter for the Courts  one of the 
matters we take into account is the relevant law. So, Ive also thought about the provisions of 
the Mental Capacity Act 2005 and the Equality Act 2010.
The Mental Capacity Act enshrines certain principles, including:
- A presumption of capacity. All adults are assumed to have capacity to make 
decisions for themselves unless it is shown that they are unable to make them. But 
the presumption of capacity shouldnt be used against someone  its not a license 
not to think about it when theres a reason to consider someones capacity
- Unwise decisions do not necessarily mean a lack of capacity. People have the right 
to make decisions that others might regard as unwise or strange. A person cant be 
said to be lacking capacity just because others dont agree with their decision.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr C and Aviva between June and August 2018. Its clear 
that he was made aware of the implications of taking benefits early from his personal 
pension. Specifically there were conversations around matters such as the effect on his 
MPAA. 
Initially Mr C had decided to take only TFC from his pension. This meant the MPAA 
provisions wouldnt have been triggered. But a few weeks later hed decided to access 
taxable income. In the call Aviva tested whether he understood the implications of doing so. 
Its clear from the call recording Mr C had given a lot of thought to his options, and on 
balance decided to proceed to take income from his pension plan. I think the following 
matters he relayed are important to my consideration:
- He mentioned he was talking to a financial adviser.
- His critical illness had meant hed stopped working and he had to find a way to plug 
the gap in his income. He needed to deal with an acute, immediate situation. He had 
to be pragmatic.
- He was servicing significant debt which he wanted to pay down. Hed been in 
conversations with some creditors who, given his situation, were amenable to 
accepting payments to settle that were lower than the outstanding sums.
- He recognised the risk he was exposing himself to  the triggering of the MPAA was 
a concern. But reducing his outgoings was important. As was his immediate priority 
of focusing on getting better.
- He mentioned that hed worked overseas previously, and that might be an option in 
the future, taking him outside of UK pension regulations. And he noted the potential 
for significant legislative change on pensions over the coming decades, which might 
be helpful. As an aside, since 2018 the MPAA for people in Mr Cs situation has 
increased from £4,000 to £10,000.
In responding to the Investigators conclusions about the calls he had with Aviva and the 
forms he signed to access his pension, Mr C said:Bipolar disorder and episodes [mean] that individuals may face periods where they lack 
capacity, but they retain the capability to engage. Again, the whole process would have been 
highlighted as inappropriate if my GP had been more fully informed through the document 
which Aviva produced.
The fact that I have signed a declaration is not an indication that my medical condition does 
not impact my ability to make financial decisions. Bipolar disorder is an extremely 
challenging condition to manage (particularly when it relates to complex decision-making). 
Again, had my GP had been better informed through a more comprehensive document, I 
would strongly doubt they would have signed the document having a clear understanding of 
my condition and the nature of it.
Ive listened to the series of calls Mr C had with Aviva in 2018, Ive reviewed the information 
he was sent and the declarations he signed. I think its more likely than not he was able to 
make his own decision because he could carry out the processes involved in doing so. In 
other words, there is evidence he could do all of the following:
- Understand information relevant to the decision to be made (i.e. the nature of the 
decision, the reason why the decision is needed, and the likely effects of deciding 
one way or another, or making no decision at all).
- Retain that information in his mind long enough to be able to make the decision.
- Weigh up the information and use it to arrive at a decision.
- Communicate his decision.
Mr C raises the question of the adequacy of the declaration his GP signed. He says the form 
didnt mention on it anywhere that it was to access his pension. I understand the point he 
makes, and perhaps the form couldve made this clearer. 
But Mr Cs GP was a professional and I would have expected them to have conducted 
proper due diligence. They wouldve noted Avivas branding on the form. And that the 
declaration was in relation to provisions for ill-health under the Finance Act 2004, and 
therefore about early access to pension benefits. Its also likely his local Practice wouldve 
dealt with similar requests before.
The Investigator concluded:
[Your] GP would need to sign the declaration and truthfully answer if you were no longer 
able to work - whether it was to access your pension or not. So I can't see how that 
[information about accessing the pension] would make a difference. The GP wasn't signing a 
fit note (sick note) to say why you weren't able to work for a short period of time, so the GP 
would know the difference.
Furthermore the paperwork was sent to you, to take to your GP - the onus would be on the 
policyholder to tell the GP why they need the document signed.
On balance, Im not persuaded by Mr Cs argument that had the declaration he asked his GP 
to sign been more explicit about him accessing his pension benefits, then his GP wouldnt 
have signed. Even if I were to accept that his GP hadnt undertaken proper due diligence 
before signing the declaration  which I dont  I cant see that better information wouldve 
led them to have refused his request. 
Mr Cs GP was being asked to confirm that he wasnt in work and would continue to be 
incapable of carrying on his occupation because of his ill-health. There doesnt seem to be 
any debate on this point.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman