DRN-3710999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc  trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) declined their claim on their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had home insurance with RSA. In February 2021 they made a claim after 
noticing damp at their property. Investigations were carried out and the damage was traced 
to a hole in an underground pipe. 
RSA initially considered the claim under the escape of water peril in the policy but declined 
it as it said the damage was due to natural breakdown of materials and thats excluded 
under the policy. However it later said it was excluded as the policy provided no cover for 
underground pipes as the add on for accidental damage wasnt purchased. 
Mr S complained as he said it hadnt been clear at the point of sale that the optional 
accidental damage cover included cover for underground pipes. He said if he had known this 
he would have bought the add on. He made a complaint. 
RSA didnt uphold the complaint, however it offered £150 compensation to make up for the 
confusion it had cause. Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought it to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought RSA hadnt made it 
clear enough to Mr S that damage to underground pipes would only be covered if the 
accidental damage add on was purchased. And she thought if it had, Mr S would have 
bought the extra cover. She therefore asked RSA to consider the claim in line with the 
additional cover for underground pipes and if it accepted the claim said it should pay 8% 
simple interest on any costs Mr S had already incurred. She also thought it should pay the 
£150 compensation it had already offered.
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators outcome. However RSA didnt. It said they had the 
option to purchase additional cover and shouldnt receive the benefit of this as they opted 
not to. It asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been some confusion around which part of the policy this claim should be 
considered under. From considering the policy documents, I agree the correct section would 
be the accidental damage cover for underground pipes. As the escape of water peril only 
covers for pipes within the property, and the damaged pipe in question is underground and 
external to the property building. 
Ive looked at the policy and I can see that this cover is only provided if an optional add on is 
selected. And Im satisfied the fact the policy doesnt provide cover for underground drains 
and pipes is unusual and significant because most policies do provide this cover as 
standard.
Because of this, Id expect RSA to make it clear to Mr S at the point the policy was sold that 
cover for underground pipes isnt included as standard. And that the only way to have this 
cover included is by purchasing the accidental damage add on.
RSA has provided screenshots from its website to show the information Mr S would have 
seen when he purchased the policy. I can see that he would have been asked whether hed 
like to add accidental damage cover. However the examples of what the cover provides for 
that are given all relate to accidents in the home that youd expect to be covered by 
accidental damage cover. Such as smashing a window, or taking a chunk out of your 
kitchen worktop. However it isnt clear from the information provided at the sale that this 
cover is also for underground pipes and, most importantly, this wont be covered otherwise. 
Ive also looked at the full policy documents that were provided to Mr S when he purchased 
the policy. And while I can see that these show that underground pipes would only be 
covered with the optional accidental damage cover, this isnt made clear and unambiguous. 
Instead it is hidden in the policy documents. As I consider this to be a significant limitation of 
the policy, RSA has an obligation to ensure the information is clear and Im satisfied it hasnt 
met this obligation.
Ive therefore considered what Mr S would likely have done differently if it had been made 
clear. Hes provided information about his previous home insurance policy. And I can see 
that he had cover for underground pipes included with this. Hes also explained that he didnt 
choose to add the accidental damage cover to the policy as he thought this was for 
accidents cause by him or his guests in the home and he was willing to take on the burden 
of that risk. Based on this, I think its likely he would have wanted to ensure underground 
pipes were included in policy cover. Therefore I think if it had been clear that he needed to 
buy extra cover to do this, I think he would.
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that RSA should consider the claim under 
the accidental damage cover for underground pipes, as if Mr S had purchased it when he 
took out the policy. If it accepts cover it should pay 8% simple interest on any amounts Mr S 
has already paid to discover or repair the damage to make up for the time he has been 
without the funds. I also agree RSA should pay the £150 compensation its offered, if it 
hasnt done so already.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n to:
Consider their claim under the accidental damage cover for underground pipes as if they 
had bought this add on.
Should a claim be accepted, pay 8% simple interest on any claim related costs that have already been paid for, from the date they were paid for until the claim settlement is paid.
Pay £150 compensation, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman