DRN-3828542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W, who are represented by a firm I will call S, complain that GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited (GE) unfairly rejected their claim under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a timeshare upgrade from a business I will call C in November 2008. 
The total cost was 15,995 and was paid for in part by way of a loan from GE. I gather this 
was repaid in September 2010.
In March 2021 S made a claim on behalf of Mr and Mrs W against GE for problems they said 
they had with the timeshare. In summary, Mr and Mrs W said that:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to them and they had been 
pressured into buying it.
They were unable to book holidays as they wished despite being told they would 
have priority.
There was an unfair relationship as evidenced by the high rate of interest charged.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU Directive.
The agreement was a fraud and had been found to be such by a Spanish Court.
They said that C went into administration in November 2020.
GE didnt ask for any information about income or expenditure before granting the 
loan.
C wasnt authorised to broker credit agreements.
GE provided two responses, both essentially stating that the claim was out of time. It also 
addressed some of the substantive points, rejecting them all.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought that GE had acted fairly in turning down the claim. She thought that there were two 
potential claims Mr and Mrs W could have made under s.75 and s.140A CCA, but both 
claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). She 
considered the possibility of an extended time limit under s 32, but concluded there was no 
basis for this. She also explained that the issue of unaffordable lending was not within our 
remit at the time of sale.
S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. It 
said our investigator had understated the difficulties Mr and Mrs W had encountered with C. 
It also felt an overly technical approach had been taken. It didnt believe the clock started 
running for a complaint to be made at the time of sale. It said Mr and Mrs W were not aware 
of the grounds for complaint until later and s 32 allowed for an extended time limit.
It suggested if C was not authorised their client would not have been aware of that until 
much later due to concealment. It said that just because the loan appeared to be affordable 
didnt mean GE had met its obligations.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
Under s.75 CCA, GE is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs W are making 
to GE. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs W say that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr and Mrs W had to make 
that claim within six years of when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  
which was in November 2008  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on 
false statements of fact.
As Mr and Mrs W first made a claim to GE in March 2021, that fell outside of the time limit 
set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs W had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended - 
which was in September 2010. But it was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
Mr and Mrs W argue that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued 
beyond March 2010. S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor 
and creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Mr and Mrs W repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and GE ended. As it was 
only the relationship between Mr and Mrs W and GE that could be found unfair, limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
Unfair Relationship
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
S argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider exists as the loan from GE 
had been used to fund the timeshare purchase. I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, 
not s.8 LA, as Mr and Mrs W are making a claim for sums recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr and 
Mrs W repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and GE ended. As it was only the 
relationship between Mr and Mrs W and GE that could be found unfair, limitation started to 
run when the credit agreement ended. As such I consider the claim was out of time.
S 32 Claim
Section 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent 
misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the time the consumer 
has to raise a claim. However, I believe Mr and Mrs W have has raised a number of issues 
with the product (over and above commission) in their claim/complaint and those issues 
could have been discoverable earlier. I consider that that they either had discovered or ought 
to have been able to discover that something had gone wrong within six years.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W are able to rely on s.32 LA here 
either. For the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to 
show that the timeshare provider was acting as agent to them. I cannot see that its role was 
to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan.
Overall, I think GE fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the s.75 CCA 
misrepresentation and s.140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and Mrs W may have against the supplier or GE 
has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those 
claims that Mr and Mrs WF might have against the timeshare supplier and/or GE have most 
likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into 
account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that GE acted unfairly in declining 
the claims.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
Mr and Mrs W argue that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which means the 
related GE loan was voidable and Mr and Mrs W now wish to exercise their right to rescind 
it.
If the timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also 
voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could 
be considered under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already explained, I 
think that claim was brought too late. However, it could also be a freestanding claim in its 
own right, so Ive considered it separately.
S has asked me to consider a Spanish court judgment. They say that a timeshare that provides for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a 
fraudulent one.
First, the timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, so 
I dont think the Spanish judgment (which in any event relates to a different timeshare 
product to Mr and Mrs Ws timeshare) can be applied directly to the question as to whether 
the contract is voidable under English law.
The EU Directive on timeshares has been enacted into English law in the Timeshare 
Regulations 1997, which amended the Timeshare Act 1992. None of those provisions 
prohibited the sale of timeshares like the one Mr and Mrs W bought.
In the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points-based timeshare were 
basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. So I am satisfied that these types of timeshares have 
never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at the time of Mr and Mrs Ws sale 
or after. Based on the evidence I have seen; I do not think either the timeshare agreement or 
the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.
Authorisation
Mr W suggested C are not and have never been authorised by the Financial Services 
Authority or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and should not have been brokering 
credit agreements underwritten by GE. As our investigator has explained that at the time the 
loan was taken and as this sale took place in 2008, they were required to be regulated by 
the Office of Fair Trading. The FCA took over the regulation of these activities on 1 April 
2014 so they did not require to be FCA regulated at the point this loan was taken.
GEs decision to lend
Mr and Mrs W say they were not asked for any information about their income and 
expenditure before GE made its decision to lend to them.
I am unable to consider a complaint about GEs decision to lend to Mr and Mrs W in 2008 as 
such activities were within out remit at that time. That said I have noted that GE did 
undertake some checks and so I think it likely that this claim is without merit.
C In Administration
The CMC seeks to make a breach of contract claim in light of one of the businesses in the 
timeshare suppliers corporate structure having been placed in administration. Contrary to 
the representatives latest submissions, I do not agree this claim should form part of my 
consideration for this case. This is a new claim that GE has not been asked to investigate.
As such, it would not be appropriate for me to comment on it in my decision. Should Mr and 
Mrs W wish to pursue this claim, they would need to raise it directly with GE Money
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think GE acted fairly in turning down Mr and Mrs 
Ws claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I dont think the loan 
agreement was voidable, nor do I think there is evidence to suggest the lending was irresponsible or unaffordable.
S didnt agree and said it didnt agree that the time for making a claim began running at the 
time of sale. S argued that Mr ad Mrs W only became aware they could claim when they 
made contact with S. It also said that under s 140A the time limit started when the credit 
agreement ended as stated in my provisional decision. However, it said the agreement is still 
ongoing as it was sold in perpetuity. It added that Mr and Mrs W were still paying 
maintenance fees.
It said that Mr and Mrs Ws testimony had not been given due weight and it reiterated they 
had been put under pressure and had not been given time to give proper consideration to 
the documentation. 
GE said it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted the comments made by S, but I am not persuaded that I should change my 
decision. I will explain why.
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation 
cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs W into the contract were 
made on or before November 2008. They did not however raise any complaint with GE until 
March 2021 more than 11 years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the 
Limitation Act.
S says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because the relevant time limit is 
extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of action. Mr and Mrs W did not 
know the loan was void until S advised them about the effect of the Directive. 
On the first point, I think it likely that Mr and Mrs W would have known some years ago if, for 
example, they were unable to book the holidays they expected to be able to book or that the 
management fees associated with club membership were higher than they had been told. 
Indeed, the complaint implies that they had been unhappy for a long time before they raised 
any complaint at all. 
That said, the provisions of the Limitation Act concerning knowledge generally apply to 
claims in negligence where damage is not immediately apparent  for example, where 
defective building work does not come to light until many years after completion, or in cases 
of medical negligence. It does not generally apply to misrepresentation claims. Be that as it 
may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against C is now out of time 
under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of GE to the claim 
under section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court 
would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
On the matter of S 140A this piece of legislation deals with the fairness of the relationship 
between a debtor and creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any 
related agreement).
The Limitation Act would also apply to a claim under s.140A CCA so Ive considered this. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that time for limitation purposes for a 
s.140A CCA claim ran from the date that the credit agreement ended (if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made.) As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation 
period is six years, so Mr and Mrs W would have had to bring an action within six years of 
when the loan was repaid. The loan was repaid in September 2010 and the fact they 
continued to pay C maintenance fees does not extend that time limit. 
Finally, I have taken due note of the claims made by S on behalf of Mr and Mrs W, but none 
of those allow me to conclude that they were made in good time. Even if I were to accept 
these as genuine grounds for upholding the complaint as stated by S, they do not overcome 
the hurdle of the claims being made out of time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman