DRN-4395003
The complaint
Ms G complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd (eBay) unfairly charged her a fee that she 
was then told would be refunded. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Consistent with what the investigator has said, I havent been able to find the terms 
and conditions that allow eBay to charge a 30p fee when a sale is cancelled by the 
buyer. So, Im satisfied this was charged incorrectly. 
Ms G was told by an eBay manager that the fee was going to be refunded. This 
never happened and it was confirmed by another advisor when Ms G contacted eBay 
that she had been given incorrect information. The refund was then declined. 
eBay have referred to a term that says the 30p will be charged if the seller needs to 
refund the buyer or cancel the sale. But on this occasion the buyer cancelled the 
sale. So, Im satisfied this term is not relevant and cant be applied here. 
Ms G spent over an hour on a number of online chats trying to get the fee refunded. 
Ms G was also given conflicting information. This caused trouble and upset that 
couldve been avoided if the fee hadnt been charged incorrectly in the first place.
Ms G has said she made a number of calls that she also thinks she should be 
compensated for. Neither party has supplied any evidence of these calls. Its also not 
clear if these were calls were made to eBay commerce or other areas of eBay. As we 
can only look at complaints against eBay commerce, issues or service failings with 
other areas wouldnt be able to be considered by our service
In summary, I think Ms G suffered some inconvenience when she was charged the 
fee, given incorrect information, and had to contact eBay several times. Ms G should 
be paid compensation for this. Having considered the level of inconvenience Ive 
seen Ms G suffered from the evidence provided, Im satisfied £100 fairly 
compensates her for this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. But as eBay Commerce UK Ltd have already 
paid Ms G £100, I dont require it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman