DRN-3932851
The complaint
Mr L, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr L acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Under the terms of the agreement Mr L was then required to make 60 monthly 
repayments of £301.94.The total repayable under the agreement was £17,814.46. The 
purchase price of the car was £9,210.00.
Mr L started getting into difficulty with meeting his payments from around May 2022. Mr Ls 
most recent payment plan with Moneybarn, set up in September 2022, has been cancelled. 
Mr L says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a search of Mr Ls credit file and 
checking his income. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They thought Moneybarn didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance 
agreement.
Mr L and those representing him didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr L about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a 
credit check to understand how Mr L had managed existing and previous finance 
arrangements. It verified Mr Ls income as £1,922 using payslip information. It also 
obtained two months of bank statements which set out an indication of what his regular 
financial commitments were. Based on that, and using statistical data, Moneybarn 
estimated that Mr L had monthly disposable income of around £640. Ive also seen that 
Mr L had a defaulted account around 16 months before he started the agreement. But 
other than that, he had no adverse markers in relation to his borrowing and no county court 
judgments against him. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it 
doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. Whilst the historical default and record of a county court 
judgment suggests that Mr L may have had some financial difficulty in the past, he 
appeared to be in better control of his financial and debt commitments by the time he took 
out the agreement.
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneybarn gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed show that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr L. I say this because, taking into account his average monthly income in 
the two months before he took out the agreement, I can see he was receiving around 
£1,900 per month. I have also taken into account Mr Ls typical level of monthly 
withdrawals, household bills and rent. Mr L kept his account in credit and appeared able to 
satisfy his existing household outgoings and credit commitments without getting into undue 
difficulty with his day-to-day financial situation. And Ive not seen other evidence to show or 
suggest that Mr L was getting into financial difficulty.
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that Mr L was likely to have been left with sufficient 
disposable income to cover his monthly repayments to Moneybarn. That means I cant say 
that the agreement was unaffordable for Mr L and so I dont think Moneybarn acted unfairly 
when approving his finance application. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr L on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman