DRN-1186311
 
The complaint
Mr P complains on that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1997 Mr P took out a personal loan with Lloyds. At the same time he took out a single 
premium PPI policy to protect his loan repayments. The policy wouldve covered his loan 
repayments if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness for the duration of the 
loan and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy wouldve 
been presented as optional and wouldve suited his needs.
Mr P disagrees. He says he didnt know he had PPI and would never of requested it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P applied for a loan during a meeting at a branch of Lloyds. Lloyds had to make it clear to 
Mr P he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr P said this wasnt done but he hasnt given much 
detail about why he thinks this. And because of the length of time that has passed since the 
sale Lloyds hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork for the loan. So I dont know 
exactly what was discussed. 
But I have seen a sample of a Lloyds loan agreement from the time which I think is likely to 
be the same agreement used when Mr P took out his loan. So to help me reach my decision 
Ive considered what Mr Ps said and looked at the sample loan agreement together with 
what we know about Lloyds sales process.
From what I understand of the sales process I think its likely that there wouldve been a 
discussion between the sales adviser and Mr P about PPI and if PPI was required it 
wouldve been included on the loan agreement.
I can see from the sample loan agreement the PPI cost is set out separately from the loan 
cost and has YES and NO boxes next to the heading OPTIONAL LOAN PROTECTION. I think because Mr P had PPI the yes box wouldve been selected on his loan agreement. 
And because Mr P wouldve been required to sign just below the yes and no boxes on the 
agreement, I think its likely he wouldve seen them and if he hadnt agreed to take the policy 
I think he wouldve raised this with the sales adviser.
So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr P at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because it is described as optional and he could say 
yes or no to taking PPI. And based on what Mr P has told us I cant say its likely Lloyds did 
do things to make Mr P think the PPI wasnt optional.
Lloyds advised Mr P to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr P could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think overall  and this is finely 
balanced - the PPI  was a suitable recommendation for Mr P for the following reasons:
 
He was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
Although the loan term was only for 6 months at the time of sale Mr P has told us he 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other means of making his loan 
repayments if he couldnt work. This, along with the fact the loan was for only £500, I 
think suggests that Mr Ps financial circumstances were such that having some 
protection was needed as the loan repayments wouldnt have been affordable for him 
even in the very short term should he be unable to work. So I dont think the short 
term of the loan made the recommendation unsuitable. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to him at the time. I note 
that if he cancelled the policy he wouldnt have received a pro-rata refund. But theres 
nothing to suggest at the time of sale he wouldve needed the flexibility to cancel the 
policy early.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr P information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the PPI out. I can see that the interest charged on the PPI isnt shown on the loan 
agreement so I dont think Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons that the PPI was suitable and based on what Mr P has told us 
about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been 
given all the proper information by Lloyds.  
Which means I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the policy. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I've explained I do not uphold Mr P's complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman