DRN-2614895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are complaining that they didnt get a cashback payment they believe they 
were entitled to when they organised a new mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax). They want £200 compensation for the upset this caused and for Halifax to 
honour its original offer of the £1,000 cashback.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into them in depth. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs O own their property through a Help to Buy (HTB) scheme. They 
asked Halifax for a mortgage that would enable them to replace their existing mortgage, pay 
off their HTB loan and borrow some extra money for home improvements. They were offered 
a mortgage that came with £1,000 cashback  but the cashback depended on them 
borrowing the additional money over and above their existing mortgage.
Eventually, for various reasons, Mr and Mrs O didnt repay the HTB loan or borrow any extra 
money  they simply ported their existing mortgage, which meant they didnt incur any 
early repayment charges on their old mortgage.
Mr and Mrs O were very disappointed to learn the £1,000 cashback they were expecting was 
no longer available, when theyd been led to believe it was. They complained to Halifax 
about this and the way their application had been handled overall.
Halifax said it recognised it hadnt handled things very well, as there had been delays and 
mis-communication about the cashback. It said it would pay Mr and Mrs O £500 to make up 
for this. It said it but wouldnt also give them the £1,000 cashback, as that wasnt available 
on the type of mortgage product they eventually took.
Our investigator said he thought Halifaxs offer was fair. He explained our approach to 
putting things right in situations like this and said he didnt think Mr and Mrs O were entitled 
to get the cashback.
Mr and Mrs O dont think thats fair, and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax has acknowledged that one of its mortgage advisers incorrectly told Mr and Mrs O 
that they would still receive cashback when their mortgage completed, even though the final 
mortgage product they took didnt qualify for it. So he wrongly raised their expectations.
We normally ask a business to put their customer in the position theyd have been in if the 
mistake hadnt been made. 
If Halifax had done things correctly, Mr and Mrs O would have known there was no cashback 
available and been able to factor it into their decision making. Halifax says there wasnt a 
product available to Mr and Mrs O that enabled them to port their mortgage (with no 
additional borrowing) that also offered cashback. So it couldnt have offered a different 
mortgage that had a cashback incentive. 
It doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs O were in a position to borrow extra (and so get the 
cashback) as their initial application to do this wasnt supported by the provider of their HTB 
loan. Mr and Mrs O say they might instead have gone to another lender. Our investigator 
thought that unlikely as Mr and Mrs O had been keen to avoid paying an early repayment 
charge (ERC)  which theyd most likely have had to do if theyd changed lender. I have to 
agree with that, given that its very likely the ERC would have been higher than the cashback 
 so theyd have been out of pocket by more than the value of the cashback.
Taking everything into account, I think Halifaxs offer of £500 to make up for the service 
issues and saying cashback was available when it wasnt, is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman