DRN-2272047
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC didnt act on his request to transfer his ISA to another 
provider in a timely manner.  
What happened
Mr G visited his local Metro branch on 22 April 2020 and placed an instruction for his cash 
ISA to be transferred to a stocks and shares ISA administered by a different provider. Mr G 
was advised that the transfer would complete within three weeks, which means that the 
transfer should have been completed no later than 13 March 2020. However, the transfer 
didnt actually take place until 2 June 2020.
Mr G wasnt happy about this, especially as it could be demonstrated that he had missed out 
on potential investment growth as a result. So, he made a complaint.
Metro looked at Mr Gs complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt transferred Mr Gs 
ISA as quickly as they should have and offered Mr G £200 as compensation for the delay 
and also £125 for his financial loss, calculated as 8% interest on the funds in Mr Gs cash 
ISA for the period from when the funds should have been transferred to when they were 
actually transferred.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Metros offer and calculated that the potential investment loss for 
the period in question was significantly more than Metro had offered. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They accepted that Mr G would have made 
an investment into the specific portfolio with his new ISA provider that he was claiming he 
would, and that he had missed out on the growth of that portfolio for the time that Metro had 
delayed transferring his ISA. So, our advisor recommended that the complaint be upheld, 
and that Metro should make payment to Mr G to cover the calculated financial loss, as well 
as a further £200 to compensate Mr G for the inconvenience he had incurred.
Metro didnt agree with the recommendation made by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro have acknowledged that the ISA wasnt transferred within the timeframe that it should 
have been. I have to decide whether I feel that the compensation that Metro have offered Mr 
G because of this is fair and reasonable or whether, given the circumstances, compensation 
calculated on the basis of calculated investment loss would be more appropriate. 
When considering the wider circumstances of this complaint I can understand, to a degree, 
why Metro may have struggled to fulfil Mr Gs request within the timeframe they would have 
liked. It must be remembered that at this time, Metro, like many other businesses worldwide, 
were operating under the unique and unprecedented restrictions imposed by the global 
Covid-19 pandemic. And this undoubtedly had an effect on the efficiency of their operations.
But Im not convinced that this in and of itself provides sufficient justification to not consider 
Mr Gs claim for financial loss here. And I say this not only because Metro confirmed the 
timeframe that the transfer should have been in to Mr G at the time that he made the ISA 
transfer request, but also because Mr G was proactive in chasing Metro when that timeframe 
expired, and contacted Metro directly on 15 May 2020, shortly after the three week period he 
had been advised the transfer would be completed in had passed.
When Mr G contacted Metro on 15 May 2020, he was told that the transfer would now 
complete on 22 May 2020, but it wasnt until 2 June that the delayed transfer actually took 
place. Mr G was transferring a cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA, so it makes sense that 
he would be intending to invest this money once it had been received into the stocks and 
shares ISA, and it follows from this that the potential for financial loss due to loss of 
investment opportunity, directly attributable to the ISA transfer delay, exists.
Metro have quite reasonably asked how it can be confirmed that Mr G would have made the 
investment which he has said he would have done. But Mr G has explained how his 
personal and financial circumstances had changed such that he had an increased amount of 
disposable income, and he has also provided this service with copies of the risk assessment 
conducted by his new provider when he first opened the stocks and shares ISA in March 
2020  which was before he made the request to transfer his cash ISA from Metro  and this 
risk assessment confirms the portfolio that Mr G refers to here. And Mr G has also provided 
evidence confirming that he made investments to that portfolio prior to requesting the ISA 
transfer from Metro.
It follows from this that Im satisfied that Mr G would, in all likelihood, have made the 
investment that hes claiming here, and that he would have made this investment when the 
funds from the cash ISA transfer from Metro would have first become available to him.
It further follows that, while I can sympathise with the operational difficulties that Metro were 
experiencing, its difficult not to conclude that Mr G has missed out on the investment growth 
of the portfolio that he was intending to invest in, and that hes done so because of the 
delays in transferring the ISA that Metro have acknowledged that theyre responsible for.
All of which means that I feel that Metro should compensate Mr G for the financial loss he 
has incurred here, and so I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Gs favour and instructing 
that Metro Bank must make restorative payments to Mr G for both the financial loss and the 
inconvenience he has incurred  as described in more detail below. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Metro were wanting here, but I hope that they 
can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Metro Bank must pay Mr G the difference in the portfolio fund value that Mr G is invested in 
with his current stocks and shares ISA provider between the dates of 14 May 2020  the first 
day the funds could have been invested had the transfer completed by the end of the three 
week timeframe given to Mr G by Metro Bank  and 3 June 2020  the day the funds were 
invested by Mr G after being received by the new ISA provider.
Metro Bank must also compensate Mr G for any loss of growth on the above amount 
calculated on the performance of the relevant portfolio from 3 June 2020 to the date of settlement.
Finally, Metro Bank must make a payment to Mr G of £200 to compensate him for the 
inconvenience that he has incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman