DRN-2135023
The complaint
Mrs T complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments she made after falling victim to a 
scam.
 
A representative has brought the complaint on behalf of Mrs T, but as Mrs T is the account 
holder Ill refer to Mrs T throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs T was the recipient of significant funds from a life insurance policy as a result of the 
passing of her husband. Mrs T says as she hadnt dealt with her own finances before, she 
contacted TSB in 2017 looking for investment advice and an appointment was made to meet 
a financial advisor in branch. Mrs T says that when she attended the branch, the staff 
member she met wasnt a financial advisor and was only able to discuss savings accounts 
and ISAs. But she had come away with the impression that the bulk of her funds were at 
risk as she was only covered up to £85,000.
In February 2019 Mrs T was called by an investment company (B). Mrs T made six 
payments to B between February 2019 and April 2019, totalling £90,000.
On 10 April 2019 Mrs T was attempting to make a further payment to B, but it was blocked 
by TSB. Mrs T called TSB and discussed the payment she was making, and TSB 
recommended that she check the company on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
database as it sounded like a scam. Mrs T says she became aware at this point that shed 
been the victim of a scam.
Mrs T says she attended a TSB branch to discuss the fraud and was told that all of her 
money would be returned under the Fraud Refund Guarantee. Mrs T also says that she had 
to chase TSB to get updates on her fraud claim.
In August 2019 TSB called Mrs T and advised her they were only able to recover £19,960.48 
which theyd paid into her account. Mrs T raised a complaint asking TSB to refund the 
balance of the funds shed lost.
TSB investigated Mrs Ts complaint but declined to refund her. They told Mrs T the Fraud 
Refund Guarantee only applied to payments made since 14 April 2019, and all of her 
payments were made prior to that date. And that in contacting the beneficiary banks, they 
were only able to recover £19,960.48 for her. They apologised that she was led to believe 
she would be refunded the full amount and paid her £50 for the poor service.
Mrs T wasnt happy with TSBs response, so she brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt there 
wasnt enough that stood out about the payments Mrs T made to B, that meant they 
shouldve flagged with TSB. They felt TSB did what it could to recover the funds for Mrs T, 
and the £50 paid for the poor service Mrs T received was reasonable.
Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
We hadnt considered TSBs failure to assist Mrs T with her new found wealth  
despite her actively seeking help.
TSB had instilled a sense of urgency into Mrs T by telling her that her funds were 
only covered up to £85,000.
As Mrs T disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
I can see that Mrs T authorised the payments via her online banking, although I accept this 
was as a result of a sophisticated scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions 
of her account, Mrs T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly in processing Mrs Ts payments, or whether 
they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made.
Having reviewed Mrs Ts account and the activity on it in the prior twelve months, I can see 
that following the credit of the life insurance funds Mrs T made several large payments out of 
her account. This included multiple faster payments (the same payment method as the scam 
payments) all of which were over £20,000, as well as transferring funds between her 
accounts, often for amounts in excess of £10,000. Taking into account how Mrs T was using 
her account, Im not persuaded that there was enough about her payments to the scammers 
that made them appear particularly unusual or out of character, whereby I wouldve expected 
them to flag with TSB. The last payment Mrs T attempted to make did flag as it exceeded the daily payment limit on 
her account. When TSB talked to Mrs T it came to light that she was the victim of a scam  
which prevented further payments from being made. But this doesnt mean that the earlier 
payments shed made shouldve flagged as well. From what I can see she hadnt previously 
exceeded her daily payment limit, so there was no reason that TSB shouldve blocked the 
earlier payments to the scammers.
Also, it appears there wasnt any negative information readily available online about B in 
February 2019 when Mrs T made her first payment. The communication that Mrs T got from 
B was very professional including the company logo, payment confirmation certificates, 
email address and contact information. And the FCA didnt publish an online notification 
about the company not being authorised and targeting people in the UK until March 2019, 
which was after Mrs T had already made four of the six payments. But as Ive already 
explained, I dont think the payments shouldve flagged with TSB as being a potential sign 
that Mrs T mayve been the victim of fraud  so I wouldnt have expected TSB to intervene 
prior to processing the payments. 
Once TSB were aware that Mrs T was the victim of a scam, they contacted the beneficiary 
banks to try and recover Mrs Ts funds. Unfortunately, they were only able to recover 
£19,960.48. But Im satisfied TSB contacted the beneficiary banks in a timely manner. 
Having considered everything, I wouldnt have expected TSB to have contacted Mrs T or 
intervened prior to processing the payments. And Im persuaded they acted reasonably in 
trying to recover Mrs Ts funds once they were aware of the scam. Therefore, I cant fairly 
ask TSB to refund Mrs T.
The level of service Mrs T received from TSB
Mrs Ts representative has raised a concern about TSB not providing Mrs T with investment 
advice when shed asked for help. And suggested that due to Mrs T being given the 
impression that her funds were at risk, mayve caused Mrs T to rush into investing and as a 
result she fell victim to the scam. 
But there isnt a regulatory obligation on TSB to provide investment advice to its customers, 
although there are obligations and regulatory requirements if they do so. From what Ive 
seen I agree that Mrs T received a poor level of service from TSB, but she was within her 
rights as a customer if she was unhappy with them to look for investment advice from other 
services or businesses. 
Also, Mrs T didnt make her first payment to the scammers until well over a year after shed 
tried to arrange an appointment with a financial advisor at TSB. And in the meantime, it 
appears she did seek investment advice or at least decided to invest with other 
organisations outside of TSB  based on the transfers she made in the months prior to 
falling victim to the scam. So, I cant fairly make an award on this basis.
TSB has already acknowledged that Mrs T was incorrectly led to believe her funds would be 
returned under the Fraud Refund Guarantee. On that basis I feel the £50 TSB have already 
offered is fair.
I appreciate that Mrs T is going to be very disappointed as she has lost a significant amount 
of money as the victim of a scam. But the fact that TSB didnt provide a satisfactory level of 
service doesnt mean that I would ask them to refund Mrs T. And I cant fairly find TSB liable 
in the circumstances for Mrs T having become the victim of a scam or what occurred as a 
result. I agree that Mrs T couldve received a better level of customer service from TSB but 
feel the £50 theyve already offered is fair in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman