DRN-3386468
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined his claim under 
his content cover for a lost ring.
What happened
Mr G purchased buildings and contents insurance from Lloyds in May 2013. He renewed his 
policy every year since.
In April 2021 he submitted a claim for a lost ring. He explained he had some house 
renovations going on at the start of the year so things were boxed up and moved about. 
Recently his wife was going to a function and wanted to wear her engagement ring but had 
been unable to find it. It was thought the ring could have been thrown out with the rubbish or 
in the house somewhere.
Lloyds declined the claim as they said the policy didnt cover the loss of the ring. They 
explained Mr G would have needed to have taken extra cover for personal belongings for it 
to be covered for loss away from the home. They also said the policy didnt cover for 
accidental loss or unexplained disappearance in the home.
Mr G felt the policy may have been mis-sold as he believed he was covered for eventualities 
such as this. Lloyds explained that whilst they couldnt confirm what was discussed at the 
point of sale, due to amount of time that had passed and lack of documentation, they could 
see that cover was detailed at the outset and at each subsequent renewal.
The complaint was referred to this service, our investigator didnt feel Lloyds had done 
anything wrong so didnt ask them to take any further action. As Mr G remained unhappy it 
has been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I have considered all the information provided by Mr G and Lloyds, including call 
recordings, I havent commented on everything. Instead Ive referred to what I feel is the crux 
of the complaint.
Lloyds have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt decline a 
claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out what is and isnt covered. Ive reviewed the 
terms and conditions as well as the policy schedules from 2013 when the policy was initially 
purchased and the renewals in 2019 and 2020. The schedules set out the level of cover 
included and details optional extras that can be added. 
 
Its possible Mr G felt the ring was covered under valuables. The definition of valuables is:
Jewellery, articles of precious metal, precious stones, clocks, watches.
But whilst there is cover under the policy for jewellery, it doesnt cover every eventuality and 
specified the circumstances for cover. It doesnt cover for loss of jewellery within the home.  
One of the extras was extended contents cover to provide cover for theft or accidental loss 
or damage to personal belongings. Personal belongings are described as:
Personal items worn, used or carried by you or your family in everyday life
And these items would be covered for loss in or temporarily outside of the home. But this 
extra wasnt taken out in 2013 or subsequent renewals up to the point of claim. 
Mr G is unsure what happened to the ring and has given a couple of suggestions of what 
might have happened. But in any event the loss isnt something thats covered under the 
general contents cover he had in place at the time of the loss.
Im aware Mr G says he thought he was covered for loss of the ring and as hes been made 
aware that the policy doesnt cover this he feels the policy may have been mis sold to him in 
2013. Im not sure what questions were asked at the point of sale or what Mr G was told the 
policy would cover.  But I can see the policy documentation provided to Mr G. I think its 
clear the general contents cover only covers loss in specific circumstances. The loss Mr G 
reported isnt one of these. 
It is for Mr G to ensure the policy meets his needs, at the point of purchase Mr G had a 
14 day cooling off period where he could have cancelled the policy if it wasnt right for his 
needs. And at each subsequent renewal he could have decided not to renew if the cover 
wasnt what he was looking for. The documentation provided was clear about the level of 
cover provided.
At the point of renewal in 2019 I note Mr G spoke to an adviser at Lloyds about the premium 
and asked if he had anything specified. Its clear he thought the ring may have been 
specified. However, the adviser explained there wasnt anything specified and that only 
items worth over £3,000 needed to be specified. The adviser asked Mr G if he wanted him to 
go over the cover, but Mr G didnt feel the need to if nothing had changed and I note the 
schedules didnt detail any specified items. I think Lloyds were clear there wasnt any 
specified item on the policy, and so this part of the policy doesnt apply. 
Whilst I understand the impact of losing a sentimental item such as an engagement ring, 
Lloyds havent been unfair in declining the claim. The information provided at the outset and 
at subsequent renewals about the level of cover was clear. And it was for Mr G to review the 
cover and contact Lloyds if it didnt meet his needs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman