DRN-4020555
The complaint
Ms L has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageass) decision to decline a claim 
she made under her building insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, Ms L made a claim to Ageas following a period of bad 
weather in 2021. She provided Ageas with a repair invoice from her contractor highlighting 
the damage she intended to claim for.
 
Ms Ls claim related to damage to her roof, chimneys, and areas of damaged render on her 
main property alongside damage to a shed, gates and one of her doors. She said her 
contractor confirmed this was all damage caused by storm and ice.
Ageas declined the claim as it said the damage was caused by wear and tear  which is 
excluded  rather than by a single, identifiable storm event.
Ms L was unhappy that Ageas failed to contact her contractor before reaching its decision 
and disagreed with the decision it reached. So, Ms L brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
Ms L hadnt provided any persuasive expert evidence to support her position. He said he 
was persuaded by Ageas surveyors opinion that the issues were more likely a result of 
wear and tear or a lack of maintenance rather than as a result of a storm.
Ms L didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I contacted Ms L to share my initial thoughts on the complaint  which were in line with our 
investigators conclusions. I explained that I thought it reasonable to place more weight on 
Ageas surveyors conclusions than her contractors, as he was the one who she said carried 
out her regular maintenance. I also shared images I found online which appeared to show 
some of the same areas of damage claimed for in 2021, present several years prior to the 
storm.
Ms L responded with additional comments from her contractor, and various news and 
Met Office articles relating to Storm Darcy and its impact in her area.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for the following 
reasons.
When our service investigates a complaint about potential storm damage, there are three 
main questions we ask ourselves. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its 
unlikely that a complaint would be upheld. The questions we ask ourselves are, based on 
the available evidence and on the balance of probabilities:
Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main, or dominant, cause of the damage?
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided in relation to the weather at Ms Ls 
property around the time of loss. Ive also considered the policy definition of storm below, 
with my added emphasis on the key element, given that Ms Ls claim relates primarily to 
damage caused by snow and ice:
Storm
We consider storm to be strong winds of 48
knots/55mph or more, sometimes accompanied by
rain, hail or snow.
Heavy or persistent rain or snow alone does not
constitute storm unless the rain or snow is extreme
that damage is caused to well maintained properties
or adequately designed construction.
Extreme rain or snow is:
- 25mm/1 inch or more of rain over a 1 hour period,
or a proportionate amount over a shorter time;
and
- 30cm/12 inches or more of snow within a 24 hour period (or less).
Ive checked the weather reports using multiple reporting services from 7 February 2021 to 
26 February 2021. The maximum snowfall reported in Ms Ls area, within a 24-hour period 
during this timeframe, was between 10cm to 12cm. This is significantly lower than the 
amount required to meet the policy definition of a snowstorm.
Its clear from the weather reports that it snowed concurrently over a number of days, and 
that the temperature was very low. So, I dont doubt that there was a lot of snow present at 
the property. But the accumulation of snow over several days doesnt meet the policy 
definition of a storm. This is also supported by the Met Office information Ms L provided, 
which specifically states the UK experienced a week of severe weather, but the snowfall was 
less than in 2018 (Beast from the East).
The weather reports Ive seen also dont appear to show storm force winds present between 
7 February 2021 and 22 February 2021. However, on 23 February 2021 one of the reports 
says the windspeeds were 55mph  which does meet the policy definition of storm. So, I 
accept that there was potentially storm weather during this period  by virtue of the 
windspeed. But Im not persuaded there has been a single, identifiable, snowstorm event. 
Ive kept this in mind when considering the remaining questions.The damage reported in this claim includes broken and dislodged roof tiles or felt. Damage 
of this nature is potentially consistent with damage caused by storm force winds and snow. 
However, its unclear how some of the other damage reported would be likely the result of a 
storm.
Ms Ls policy document explains that general roof maintenance isnt something which would 
be covered:
VERY IMPORTANT NOTICE
Please note that this home insurance policy is designed to insure your property 
against loss or damage. It does not cover the maintenance of your home. That 
means we will not cover the cost of wear and tear or maintenance costs such as 
defective rendering, repointing chimneys or general roof maintenance.
Ageas main reason for declining the claim relates to the third question  whether the main 
or dominant cause of damage was most likely the storm. Ageas appointed a surveyor to 
attend Ms Ls property and assess the damage. Due to poor weather, they werent able to 
get up on the roof. But from their visual inspection and the photos taken, they concluded that 
none of the reported damage was consistent with a one-off storm event. They also didnt feel 
it was consistent with the level of snowfall around the time of loss.
Ive thought carefully about the conclusions of Ageas surveyor, as well as the quote and 
comments provided by Ms Ls contractor. 
Ms Ls contractor noted on his quotation that the damage related to storm and ice damage. 
But it didnt include any explanation or reasoning as to how he concluded that storm force 
weather was the cause of the damage. Im also mindful that its unlikely Ms Ls contractor 
would be aware of her policy definitions for storm, or whether the weather at the time met 
these or not. So, I dont find his quotation to be persuasive evidence that the dominant cause 
of damage was a storm.
In follow-up communications with our service, Ms Ls contractor clarified that her property is 
in an exposed location and so wind can cause more damage as it can present as an uplifting 
thrust. Hes also said severe damage was caused along the same road around the same 
time as the damage to Ms Ls property. In his opinion, around 60% of the damage recorded 
on his quotation was the result of storm and snow. He also said Ms L keeps the property well 
maintained and had regular work done to address any damage.
Ms Ls contractors additional comments have been helpful, as they offer some further 
reasoning as to his conclusions. However, they dont differentiate between which damage he 
believes was caused by wind (the accepted storm event which occurred) and which by an 
accumulation of snow  which doesnt appear to amount to a storm as even Ms Ls 
contractor has mentioned maximum depths of 100mm (significantly less than required to 
meet the policy definition). His comments also dont specify which damage falls within the 
60% he estimates was caused by the storm either. Further to this, Ms L has told us that she 
uses this same contractor to carry out the maintenance at her property. And as already 
explained to Ms L, in my view, this impacts the impartiality of his opinion and so the amount 
of weight I can reasonably place on it.In addition to the above, both Ms L and her contractor have said the roof, and property, were 
regularly maintained. But Ive checked images of the property online from 2019 and 2020 
(both significantly before the claim). These show, what appears to me to be, some of the 
same damaged and dislodged roof tiles, the same cracked render above external windows 
and on the chimneys, and areas of weathered or missing mortar/pointing included with 
Ms Ls claim  which seems to contradict their statements. So, taking all the above into 
account, I consider it reasonable to place more weight on the opinion of Ageas surveyor 
than Ms Ls contractor.
Ageas surveyor says none of the reported damage is consistent with having been caused 
by a one-off storm event. Rather, they said it is more consistent with damage which happens 
gradually combined with a lack of maintenance  which has then been highlighted by the 
severe weather at the time  rather than the weather being the main or dominant cause of 
the damage. In the circumstances, I find these conclusions to be consistent with the photos 
and, on the balance of probabilities, more persuasive than the information provided by Ms L. 
It follows that I dont think the storm (or snowfall) in question was most likely the main cause 
of the damage, but rather the wind and/or the accumulation of snow over a period of several 
days (which doesnt amount to a storm as defined in Ms Ls policy) highlighted existing 
maintenance issues, which happened over a period of time. 
This means that the answer to question three, above, would be no. Based on this, and taking 
all of the available evidence into account, I think the decision Ageas reached on Ms Ls claim 
was in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, and that it was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms L complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman