DRN-4321437
The complaint
Mrs V complains about how Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) 
handled her claim on her home insurance.
What happened
Mrs V owns a property that benefits from a home insurance policy thats underwritten by 
Ocaso. Previously, she jointly owned the property with her husband, Mr V, who sadly passed 
away at the end of 2019.
In 2013 there had been an escape of water at the property. Mr and Mrs V made a claim on 
the policy at the time, which was accepted. In 2015 the repair work was reaching completion 
when there was a second escape of water which led to further damage and a second claim.
It took some time for repairs to be completed and when Mr V sadly passed away, the claim 
was still ongoing. When Mrs V felt able to continue the claim again, there were a number of 
snagging issues that still needed to be addressed. As well as some items of contents that 
had been damaged and not reimbursed.
As she didnt feel the claim was progressing with Ocaso she made a complaint. Ocaso 
upheld the complaint and offered £200 compensation for poor communication. However Mrs 
V didnt think that was enough and brought the complaint to this service.
After the complaint came to us Ocaso confirmed that it was appointing an independent 
contractor to inspect the property and put together a scope of works that it would then 
complete. It also agreed to pay £230 for the damaged contents.
Our investigator considered this and thought it was a reasonable offer to resolve the 
complaint. However he also thought Ocaso should pay a total of £650 compensation to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience it had cause Mrs V in the handling of her claim.
Mrs V didnt agree with the outcome. She said the stress of the claim had made her late 
husbands condition worse, so more compensation was due.
As agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
In August 2023 I issued a provisional decision that said as follows:
I understand there are still works outstanding at Mrs Vs property. However Ocaso has 
offered to appoint an independent surveyor to scope the required works and oversee these 
to completion. Its also offered £230 to pay for the damaged contents. Mrs V has accepted 
this offer so I wont consider this element of the complaint any further.
This means all thats outstanding is the compensation due.
Insurance claims by their nature will always cause a level of distress and inconvenience. 
Especially for claims such as this, where there has been extensive damage to the property 
and the policyholders have had to move out of their home for a period of time. However 
when determining the compensation due, I need to consider Ocasos actions. And whether it 
caused Mrs V any additional distress and inconvenience because of these.
From looking at the information provided, I dont think Ocaso has provided a good service at 
times and has caused avoidable delays. In particular:
The issue that caused this claim appears to be due to a problem that was caused by 
Ocasos contractors when fixing the original problem from the 2013 claim. While Ocaso 
hasnt confirmed this directly, all the reports its provided in relation to the claim suggest 
this to be the case. Therefore if Ocasos contractors had carried out a suitable fix in the 
first place, then it seems likely that Mr and Mrs V would have had no cause to claim in 
2015. And would have been spared the distress and inconvenience of this claim.
It has taken a long time for it to settle some elements of the claim despite Mr V having 
to chase numerous times for the same thing  for example payment of the council tax.
The claim was made in 2015, yet in 2022 there were still snagging issues outstanding, 
despite these being brought to Ocasos attention some time ago. This means the claim 
has gone on for much longer than I would expect. I note that the claim paused for some 
time after Mr V passed away, as Mrs V understandably didnt feel able to deal with it. 
However I think Ocaso could have been more proactive in supporting Mrs V and 
resolving the outstanding issues. It has now offered to instruct an independent engineer 
to sort the remaining issues, but it has taken many years to get to this stage.
Ocaso were aware of the snagging issues yet closed its file for the claim. This caused 
Mrs V additional distress when she got back in touch to find the claim was no longer 
open.
During the course of this claim Mrs V has very sadly lost her husband. Shes said that 
the distress caused by the claim worsened his health and contributed to his passing. Its 
not possible to say to what extent the claim impacted Mr V and the affect it had on his 
health at the time. However I dont doubt it was a distressing time for both him and Mrs 
V. And the fact Mrs V lost her husband during this claim, would have undoubtably made 
the matter more distressing for her to deal with. And therefore the impact of Ocasos 
actions would have caused a greater impact.
Due to this I think Ocaso has caused additional distress and inconvenience on top of an 
already stressful claim. It has taken a long time to resolve the outstanding issues and hasnt 
always been proactive in handling Mr and Mrs Vs requests. Further theres evidence to 
suggest that its contractors caused the need for Mr and Mrs V to claim in 2015 in the first 
place. Due to this, Im minded to ask it to increase the compensation offered to £1,000. This 
should include the £200 already offered. As I think this is a fairer offer in the circumstances, 
to recognise the avoidable delays and distress and inconvenience caused.
Response to my provisional decisionOcaso responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs V responded with additional information about the impact the matter had had on her. In 
particular she highlighted the impact that staying in the alternative accommodation for so 
long had. She said the standard of property wasn't the same as her home - and this was 
during a time when her husband's health was rapidly deteriorating. She said the property 
didn't have clothes washing facilities, so she needed to take washing elsewhere to be 
washed and dried, and while her husband was able to do this to begin with, as his health got 
worse, this fell to her to complete. 
She also said it was his wish to die in his own property rather than a rental property, and this 
meant they moved back to the property sooner than they would have done, to ensure that he 
could be comfortable and to fulfil his wish. 
 
Further she said they were told they'd be in alternative accommodation for six months but 
ended up remaining there for a year and 8 months and this led to further distress. 
Second provisional decision
Following this, I reconsidered my original outcome. I thought that the additional information 
Mrs V provided about how the handling of the claim had impacted her, meant that a higher 
level of compensation was due. 
I wrote to both sides to explain this. I said I thought considering the circumstances they were 
in, with Mr Vs worsening health, the matter would have been extremely distressing. And as I 
had previously outlined in my first provisional decision, I considered Ocaso to be responsible 
for a considerable amount of the delays, due to poor workmanship and because of the 
second escape of water. 
I said due to the additional information about the standard of alternative accommodation, the 
length of time they were placed in it and the additional pressure due to the lack of washing 
facilities meant that additional compensation was due. And as this was during a particularly 
critical time for Mr Vs health, I thought this would have caused a significant amount of 
distress. 
I concluded that based on this better understanding of the impact of the matter, I intended to 
increase the compensation by a further £500 to a total of £1,500 to recognise the distress 
that was caused.
Response to my second provisional decision
In response to my updated findings, both Mrs V and Ocaso responded to accept the 
increased offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have agreed to my second provisional outcome, I see no reason to depart 
from this decision, for the reasons I have already outlined.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to pay Mrs V a total of £1,500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman