DRN-4420382
The complaint
Mrs Q complains HCC International Insurance Company Plc trading as Tokio Marine HCC 
(HCC) unfairly declined a storm damage claim under a Property Owners insurance policy. 
What happened
Details of the claim are known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in detail here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs Q owns a property she rents to a tenant (a family member). The property was insured by 
HCC. 
In 2022, Mrs Q raised a claim with HCC for storm damage. She says the tenant noticed 
water entering through the ceiling in September 2022 during a period of adverse weather. 
Roof tiles were broken, and the felt was frayed, amongst other things. HCC said they 
couldnt help as the weather conditions werent consistent with that of a storm on or shortly 
before the time of the claim. 
Mrs Q told HCC she wasnt happy with this. She says a local weather warning was in place 
at the time. But HCC didnt agree a storm was the main cause of damage  rather, poor 
weather merely highlighted existing issues. They also reviewed the repair quotes Mrs Q 
provided to them, which included stripping the old roof, replacing it, and its fittings. And say 
this further supports poor conditions highlighted existing issues. HCC also declined to cover 
the internal damage under the policy, leaving Mrs Q to fund the repairs. As she wasnt happy 
with their answer, she approached our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. While she thought heavy rain 
was likely present around the time damage is said to have occurred, she wasnt persuaded 
this was the main cause of the damage. 
Mrs Q says HCC accept a storm occurred in February 2022, and problems caused then 
didnt manifest until the second storm occurred, in September 2022, which gave rise to the 
claim. This didnt change the investigators view, and so as the matter couldnt be resolved, 
the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 October 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our Service has a well-established approach to cases involving storm damage. We ask 
three questions: 
Were storm conditions present on or around the date damage occurred? 
Is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no, then its unlikely a claim would succeed. 
While the policy doesnt define a storm, its widely accepted a storm generally involves 
violent winds accompanied by heavy rainfall. Ive reviewed records from a weather station 
located roughly four miles from Mrs Qs property. These show a peak gust of 40MPH 
accompanied by rainfall of 11.8mm per hour (48.8mm max 24 hourly). Given the weather 
station is only four miles from the property, Im satisfied this gives a reasonable indication of 
the likely local conditions around the time damage is said to have occurred. 
Mrs Qs own evidence also supports heavy rainfall was present given a local weather 
warning was in place for rain. What Mrs Qs evidence and the weather station records 
doesnt support is violent winds also occurred. Id have expected to see violent winds 
present too, given the extensive repairs detailed within the quotes Mrs Q provided, which Ill 
come on to later in my decision. 
All parties accept Mrs Qs property sits on high, exposed ground. Mrs Q says its situated 
roughly 700 feet above sea level. So, Ive also reviewed where the weather station is 
situated to establish whether the records provide a fair indication of the likely conditions 
higher up. The weather station is situated roughly 740 feet above sea level, so I think its fair 
to say these records are a fair reflection of the weather conditions locally to Mrs Qs 
property. 
Taking everything into account, while I accept poor weather conditions were present, Im not 
satisfied the evidence supports violent winds accompanied by heavy rainfall occurred. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded the answer to question one is yes. 
Returning to the damage Mrs Q reported. She says tiles, soffits, and guttering was broken, 
and the roof felt was frayed, amongst other things. Its my view this damage is consistent 
with typical damage caused by violent winds and heavy rainfall (a storm). But, as mentioned 
above, records of the weather conditions do not support that. 
With any insurance claim, its for a policyholder to demonstrate theyve suffered loss or 
damage as the result of an insured peril. And Im not satisfied Mrs Q has done that here. The 
repair quotes shes provided total approximately £9,000-£10,000. These repairs were said to 
have included stripping the old roof, replacing it, and its associated fittings. I acknowledge 
Mrs Q says quotes were provided by professionals based on what they considered 
appropriate to complete a lasting and effective repair. But, as mentioned above, Im not 
satisfied the level of repairs required are consistent with heavy rainfall alone in the absence 
of violent winds.
The claim file includes photos of Mrs Qs property after damage is said to have occurred. 
These photos show a roof tile thats cracked down the middle (situated on the floor) and 
internal water damage. What these photos dont show is the damage reported by Mrs Q to 
the roof where water is said to have entered  photos I would expect to see to support Mrs 
Qs arguments that the claim should be paid. These photos could also have supported Mrs 
Qs claim that damage occurred prior to this during the February 2022 storm, and only 
manifested itself much later, in September 2022. 
All things considered  I currently dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for HCC not to 
accept responsibility for covering the repairs to strip the roof, replace it, and its associated 
fittings. They say poor weather only highlighted existing issues which I think was reasonable. 
I say this because Im not satisfied the answer to question one above is yes, nor am I persuaded the damage Mrs Q is claiming for is consistent with the weather records Ive seen 
and was in turn the main cause of damage. 
I acknowledge Mrs Q held accidental damage cover and internal damage occurred. But 
importantly, the policy says it will only respond to claims under this section if the building first 
sustains storm damage to its roof through which the rain enters. Because I dont think HCC 
declined the storm damage claim unfairly, I also dont think the internal damage should be 
covered. Therefore, it follows, I currently dont intend to require HCC to take any action. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
HCC responded to say they had no further points to make. Mrs Q didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. She raised, broadly, the following points Ive summarised below: 
The policy doesnt define a storm. 
The quotes provided are for repairs and not a new roof. Had Mrs Q provided a quote 
for a new roof, the amount detailed in the quotes would have been much higher. 
HCC should come to a settlement agreement and its not fair our Service is not 
advocating for a settlement on Mrs Qs behalf. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mrs Qs further points and will now go on to set out my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs Q for responding to my provisional decision which I anticipated would come as a 
disappointment to her. 
Ive reviewed the further points shes put to our Service, but Im sorry to say these dont 
persuade me to deviate from the provisional outcome I reached on 11 October 2022. Ill 
explain why. 
I set out our Service has a well-established approach to cases involving storm damage. And 
in this case, I wasnt persuaded the answer to the first question was yes  meaning, I didnt 
think it was unfair or unreasonable that the claim didnt succeed. The weather records taken 
from a station roughly four miles from her property (and likely higher up) doesnt support 
violent winds accompanied by heavy rainfall occurred on or around the time damage is said 
to have occurred. 
I also acknowledged the policy doesnt define a storm. But that its widely accepted a storm 
would be considered as generally involving violent winds accompanied by heavy rainfall. 
And, as mentioned above, the evidence in this case doesnt support a storm was present on 
or around the time damage is said to have occurred. 
I appreciate why Mrs Q thinks Ive put a lot of emphasis on the language used in the repair 
quotes. These said, broadly, works included replacing the old roof, including its fittings. And 
this suggested the entire roof was replaced. Im not suggesting the entire roof was replaced. 
Rather, I wasnt persuaded the level of repairs were consistent with the weather station records. I wouldnt expect to see this level of damage to have occurred by heavy rainfall 
alone in the absence of violent winds. 
I thought it would be helpful to explain the role of our Service. Were an informal dispute 
resolution service. Were able to consider matters a customer and respondent business 
havent been able to resolve themselves. We consider whether things have gone wrong and 
provide an impartial answer about whats happened. Our role isnt to act on behalf of either 
party to negotiate a settlement on their behalf. 
In this case, Ive considered whether I think HCCs decision not to accept Mrs Qs storm 
damage claim was a fair and reasonable one. And, having done so, Im not satisfied their 
decision not to accept responsibility for the internal or external damage was an unfair or 
unreasonable one. Therefore, I dont require HCC to take any further action here. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs Q. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to informally resolve her dispute with HCC  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman