DRN-4198827
The complaint
Mr B says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance,
who Ill call BPF, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold.
Mr B has been represented by a professional representative who Ill refer to as PR. Where
I refer to Mr Bs submissions I include those made on his behalf.
Mr B entered into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr B or his representatives in this decision. I mean
no disrespect to Mr Bs partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr B purchased a timeshare from a company Ill call S, in September 2014 (the Time of
Sale). He financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with BPF.
The timeshare membership agreement gave him the right to occupy an apartment at a resort
in Spain, for a week of every year until the expiry of the membership in December 2028.
Mr B complained to BPF in March 2019. His complaint was detailed and its not practical to
list all of the issues here, but Ill summarise what I think are the main concerns.
Mr B said that the timeshare had been misrepresented to him and that he had a like claim
against the credit provider (BPF) as he did against the supplier under section 75 of the CCA.
He explained that S had told him during their sales presentation that a timeshare agreement
he held with another company (who Ill call D) could only be exited if he entered into a new
timeshare agreement with S whereby they would terminate the deal for him. He said he later
found out that was untrue, and he could have done so himself without entering into any
agreement with S. He also said hed been promised the resort was exclusive but later found
it was open to the public for bookings. Mr B said he was put under significant pressure to
enter into the agreement with S and that he wasnt allowed time to consider the offer. He
said that the agreement was illegal under Spanish law and that the timeshare agreement,
and the finance agreement that funded it, were therefore null and void. He also suggested
that the timeshare agreement was in breach of a European directive and that commission
paid to the broker should have been disclosed. It was Mr Bs assertion that BPF hadnt
completed sufficient checks to assure the agreement was affordable for him. He insisted he
wouldnt have proceeded with the timeshare deal had it not been for the unfair relationship
and the misrepresentations.
BPF didnt agree with Mr B and our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be
upheld. He didnt think there had been a breach of contract or that there was sufficient
evidence of misrepresentation.
He noted that PR had suggested the timeshare agreement was a fractional agreement, but
he didnt think there was sufficient evidence of that.
Mr B and his representatives didnt agree with the investigators view, and they asked for a
decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards,
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
Mr Bs representatives have suggested this is a fractional timeshare agreement; a type of
agreement that gives the consumer a share in the ownership of a single identified
property in an accommodation portfolio. Ive considered the limited documentation that
has been provided but, on balance, Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to
suggest this was a fractional agreement. I say that because it wasnt unusual for
purchase agreements such as this to mention fractional even when they didnt offer
ownership of any fraction, and also because Mr B hasnt been able to provide the
fractional certificate. Theres also no mention of maintenance fees in the agreement and
I think they would have been likely to be listed in a fractional agreement. The specific
property is also not listed. I think its likely that it would have been if the agreement was a
fractional one.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr B also
relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be
deemed to be the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a courtin deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr B and the lender.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr B may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether the lender was
reasonable to reject Mr Bs claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
Mr B says that he was told that the only way he could exit a pre-existing timeshare
agreement with D was to sign up for a new one with S and have them terminate the old
agreement. Mr B has provided no further evidence that was the case and I think it unlikely S
would offer that arrangement as Ive not seen evidence they had a relationship with D. Mr B
says he subsequently found he would have been able to cancel the agreement with D
himself on provision of a payment, but I think that would have been likely to be evident in any
contractual paperwork that D had provided. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence Mr
B was therefore given a false statement of fact with regard to the previous agreement and
its recission.
Mr B also says he was told the resort was exclusive and could only be used by members.
Im not persuaded I have been provided with evidence that other members of the public were
not allowed to use the resort. Thats because the information provided by Mr B relates to a
different resort. I dont think there was any promise in the contract that the resort would be
exclusive.
So, I dont think theres evidence the timeshare agreement was misrepresented Mr B, and I
dont think BPF were unreasonable to reject that claim.
Breach of contract
PR have suggested that the timeshare agreement is null and void under Spanish law, but
the timeshare agreement explains its covered by English law so, I cant see how Spanish
law a consideration is here and overall, I dont think BPF have been unreasonable not to
uphold a section 75 claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr Bs ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of breaks, and the lack
of time alone to think, that he says he experienced.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers
freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the
use of harassment, coercion, or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they
would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue
influence was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether
the Supplier exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply
pressure, even without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which
significantly [limited] the consumers ability to make an informed decision.
I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr B didnt understand
he didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could walk away
without entering into it. Given what I know of D, I think its likely he would have been to a
similar presentation, when he signed up for his previous timeshare agreement. He was also
provided with a 14 day cooling off period and I think, even if he wasnt allowed much time to
think during the presentation, the cooling off period allowed him to reflect and withdraw from
the agreement and the loan if he wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
PR suggest that Mr Bs rights to a weeks accommodation at the Resort amount to a long-
term holiday product as defined in the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations). They say that Regulation 26 of those
Regulations, stipulates that payments towards the agreement should have been in
instalments. But this wasnt a long-term holiday product as defined by Regulation 8 of the
2010 Regulations, it was a Timeshare Contract as defined under Regulation 7, and in those
circumstances, Regulation 26 (Payment schedule  long term holiday products) didnt, and
doesnt, apply.
PR say that the timeshare company accepted a deposit from Mr B in advance of the
agreement and that, as the deposit was taken in contravention of Article 9 of Directive
2008/122/EC of the European Parliament, the contract should be rescinded. That Directive
says:
Member States shall ensure that in relation to timeshare, long-term holiday product and
exchange contracts any advance payment, provision of guarantees, reservation of money on
accounts, explicit acknowledgement of debt or any other consideration to the trader or to any
third party by the consumer before the end of the withdrawal period according to Article 6, is
prohibited.
I cant see that I have evidence any advance payment was made or that any payments
under the finance agreement were due until after the withdrawal period had expired. So, Im
not persuaded there was a contravention of the Directive.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. I dont think
the fact that BPF may have paid the Supplier commission was incompatible with its role in
the transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr B but as the supplier of
contractual rights he obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan,
based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or
disinterested recommendation or to give Mr B advice or information on that basis. Whats
more, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the typical amounts of commission paidby BPF to suppliers (like the Supplier) when loans were interest bearing (as was the case on
this occasion) was likely to be high enough to create an unfair debtor-creditor relationship
given the circumstances of this particular complaint. I think its unlikely a court would find that
the failure to disclose commission in this case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
Ultimately, I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that the lenders acts and/or
omissions, or those of the supplier or credit broker as agents of the lender, generated an
unfair debtor  creditor relationship here.
Unaffordable lending
Mr B says that the lender didnt perform adequate credit checks or review his credit file when
approving the loan, and that they didnt conform to the relevant guidance.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding),
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr B suffered a loss as a
result. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence from Mr B to suggest he didnt have
enough disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan, and I dont
therefore think it would be reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible when
providing the credit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments
Neither Mr B nor his representatives provided any further comments or evidence for me to 
consider. 
BPF didnt contest my provisional decision but did provide some additional comments in 
which they explained that they agreed the timeshare wasnt fractional, and even if it was they 
said Mr B hadnt provided sufficient evidence to show the agreement was misrepresented to 
him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman