DRN-3670770
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) led him to
believe that he had three pension policies when he only had one.
Mr W says he made plans and payments based on the incorrect information.
What happened
Mr W says that in late 2020, he logged on to his online Prudential account to find that one of
his pension plans had disappeared and his personal details had been altered.
After Mr W raised his concerns with Prudential, it investigated and found that it had linked 
policies to him as Mr W had the same surname and date of birth as another policy holder. 
One of those policies had been cashed by the other policy holder. Mr W only held one 
pension policy with Prudential.
Prudential apologised and offered Mr W £2,000 compensation. Mr W wasnt happy with the 
proposed outcome. He said that because of Prudentials mistake, hed made major financial 
decisions including gifting £15,000 to a relative and reducing his working hours. Mr W 
wanted Prudential to pay him the pension hed been expecting for around 17 years.
The investigator thought that Prudentials offer of compensation was fair. Mr W disagreed. 
He was expecting to retire with a pension pot worth around £70,000. Mr W said he wouldnt 
have gifted the money to his relative if Prudential hadnt made the mistake. And Mr W said if 
hed not anticipated benefiting from around £70,000 on retirement, he wouldve set up a new 
pension many years ago.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. In that decision, I explained 
why I thought Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. As those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts below. In my decision I said:
Mr W has expressed concerns that he can still access the other policyholders details 
online, including the other policyholders pension. And Mr W thinks the other 
policyholder can also see his details. As far as I can see, Mr Ws own data hasnt 
been compromised, and Mr W hasnt provided any firm evidence that this has 
happened or that he has lost out as a result.
Therefore, whilst I can appreciate why he has little confidence in Prudentials 
systems, I dont have anything specific to address on this issue or any potential loss 
to consider. I wont therefore consider this part of Mr Ws complaint in my decision.
Theres no dispute that Prudential gave Mr W information about pension policies that 
didnt belong to him. So, my decision focusses on whether Prudentials offer of 
compensation goes far enough to put things right for Mr W. It will disappoint Mr W but 
I agree that £2,000 is fair compensation and I will explain why.
Based on the evidence weve been given, it appears that Mr W only has one pension 
policy with Prudential. This means that the other two policies that Mr W could see 
online dont belong to him. Mr W is not entitled to receive the benefit of the policies, 
so putting him back in the position he wouldve been in had the mistake not 
happened, wouldnt lead to him receiving the pension benefits that were never his in 
the first place.
However, Mr W says that he made irreversible financial decisions because of 
Prudentials mistake. To reach my decision, Ive considered whether it was 
reasonable for Mr W to make these decisions based on the belief that his pension pot 
would be £70,000 instead of around £10,000.
Mr W says that Prudential has been sending him statements for the other pensions 
for years. I havent seen these statements but I accept what Mr W has told this 
service. However, Im not persuaded that it was entirely reasonable for Mr W to have 
relied on having a substantially larger pension when making the financial decisions 
that he took.
Mr W told the investigator that he was surprised about how much his pension pot 
was. I appreciate that he had spoken with friends who had pension pots of £50,000 
but hadnt been contributing to them for some time. However, theres a big difference 
between a pension that is worth around £10,000 to one that is worth seven times this 
amount. I wouldve reasonably expected Mr W to query the value with Prudential at 
some point but I dont have evidence that he did this. This would have prevented the 
problem escalating in the first place. And in the absence of this, I dont think it 
reasonable for Mr W to have assumed his pension had increased so significantly.
I agree that Prudential made a significant mistake that has caused Mr W a great deal 
of anxiety and upset. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not persuaded that 
it was reasonable to make the financial decisions Mr W did without querying things 
further with Prudential.
Mr W told the investigator that he stopped paying a Prudential policy years ago 
presumably the one that he still holds  because to achieve the value that he wanted 
on retirement Mr W would have had to increase his monthly payments. Mr Ws 
testimony indicates that he was aware hed have to make higher monthly 
contributions to achieve a larger pension pot but wasnt willing to do so. So, I dont 
think he would have contributed more even if he had followed up with Prudential and 
realised he only had one pension.
It was Mr Ws decision to gift money to his relative before hed cashed in his pension. 
The final value of his pension hadnt yet been determined and the value can go down 
as well as up. I dont think I can reasonably require Prudential to make up the 
shortfall between the actual value of Mr Ws Prudential pension and the value of the 
gift.
Mr W may have come to believe the policies were his, but he had the benefit of the 
money he gave to his relative and the money he may otherwise have paid to his 
existing pension or a new pension, if hed known the true position.
I am very sorry to hear about the distress the mistake has caused Mr W. But for all 
the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider it entirely reasonable that he made 
the financial decisions he did or suffered a direct financial loss because of the 
misleading information. I consider Prudentials offer of £2,000 fairly reflects the loss 
of expectation and distress that Mr W felt.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision. Mr W confirms he received my provisional decision but hasnt asked me 
to consider anything further. Prudential hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been asked to consider any further information or evidence, I find it reasonable 
to make my final decision along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
Prudential sent Mr W a cheque for £2,000 in early 2021. Although cheques dont technically
expire, its likely that a bank wont accept the cheque as more than six months has passed. If
Mr W accepts my decision and he no longer has the cheque or cant pay it in, Prudential
should arrange with Mr W to make the payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an 
offer to settle Mr Ws complaint that I think is fair. If Mr W hasnt already cashed the cheque, 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay him £2,000
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman