DRN-3416571
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) made 
errors in managing his account.
What happened
Mr B had a Barclaycard with a limit of £2,850. In May 2020, the balance was £2,842. The 
minimum payment due by 8 June 2020 was £85.98. The direct debit was returned unpaid on 
10 June 2020. No payments were made to Mr Bs Barclaycard account between June 2020 
and October 2020 inclusive. His credit file was marked with missed payments for those 
months. In September 2020, his card was suspended. By October 2020, the arrears were 
£518.78  and this amount was paid on 26 October 2020.
Mr B complained that he tried to change the bank details for his direct debit  so the 
minimum payment could come from that bank. But he said Barclaycards app wouldnt allow 
him to do that. As a result, he was charged interest and fees for the missed payment in June 
2020. After that, his household income had been affected by the pandemic and he also had 
some large unexpected bills, so he couldnt afford to make the payments, either in June 
2020 or after that.  After the missed payment in June 2020  the interest and charges built 
up, and then by July 2020  the minimum payment doubled because of the missed payment 
in June 2020. He said hed been upfront with Barclaycard all along about his situation  but 
theyd not given him any help. He was now faced with markers on his credit file  which were 
unfair and restricted his ability to get credit. 
Mr B said he couldnt get through to Barclaycard on the phone as the wait times were 
excessive  so wasnt able to discuss his issues with them. When he spoke to the 
complaints team, there was a dispute about whether theyd speak to Mr Bs wife. He said 
he'd been bullied into paying a lump sum to Barclaycard to get his account reinstated  this 
amounted to about £600 in missed payments. He had to borrow this from his family. Mr B 
wants his credit file amended, and the amount of the lump sum payment refunded to him. He 
said the whole experience caused him a lot of stress and embarrassment.
Barclaycard said theyd not provided a good service to Mr B. They shouldve told Mr B in 
June 2020 that if hed applied for a payment holiday under the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) scheme, he wouldnt have had his credit file marked with missed payments. But as 
things stood, the markers on his credit file should remain in place as they were factually 
correct. Although there were difficulties with Barclaycards app at the time, Mr B couldve 
made payments to his account using other methods such as online banking, telephone 
banking, cheque, in branch or by direct debit. They paid compensation of £100 and refunded 
the interest for June 2020 and July 2020  this came to a further £121.23. On the matter of 
speaking to Mr Bs wife, they admitted they spoke to her without completing security 
procedures and for this, paid compensation of £75.
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard hadnt 
acted fairly. When Mr B spoke to Barclaycard in June 2020  they shouldve provided him 
with more information about the payment holiday scheme. Had they done so, it wouldve 
likely been agreed for June 2020 to August 2020 and then for a further three months from 
September 2020 to November 2020. And this wouldve also meant that the missed payment 
in June 2020 would not have been reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs), nor the 
missed payments thereafter. She said that Barclaycard should remove the missed payments 
markers from Mr Bs credit file for the months reported between June 2020 and November 
2020. She felt the compensation of £100 was fair  and noted also that interest of £121.23 
had been refunded. She said that if hed taken a payment holiday, this interest wouldve 
been paid. She didnt feel that the data breach had any impact  as it was clear that it was 
Mr Bs intention for his wife to deal with his complaint when Barclaycard called. And so, the 
compensation for this aspect of Mr Bs complaint had been dealt with.
Mr B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he told Barclaycard that he couldnt afford to pay his 
credit card instalments. But they gave him no help. Instead, he missed payments to his card 
for several months and his credit file was marked. He said his card was then cancelled and 
he was pestered to make payments  and he had to borrow money from his family to pay off 
the arrears. He says this was embarrassing. He wants compensation for what happened, 
and his credit file changed to remove the missed payments. He also says that on one 
occasion Barclaycard didnt complete security checks when he asked that his wife speak on 
his behalf  and this was a data breach. He says that he couldnt get to speak to Barclaycard 
to sort matters out because of the long wait times on the phone.
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Barclaycard, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment holidays.
I can see that Mr Bs direct debit for £85.98 was returned unpaid on 10 June 2020. In 
Barclaycards records its shown as the first payment  because it was due to be paid from 
a new bank account. And it was returned unpaid again the next month - on 8 July 2020  
and it was then cancelled. This wouldve been standard procedure  if a bank believes a 
direct debit wont be paid, it takes the action to cancel it rather than trying to take the money 
again in subsequent months. Mr B told us that he didnt have the money anyway to meet the 
direct debit in June 2020 - as hed had unexpected bills and his household income was 
affected by the pandemic. And  I can see from Barclaycards notes that when Mr B 
contacted them on 10 June 2020  he said he wanted to avoid any impact on his credit file. 
And when he messaged them again on 24 June 2020, he repeated he didnt want anything 
to affect his credit file. Barclaycard replied on 24 June 2020 and suggested he consider the 
FCAs payment holiday scheme  and said he should look at its details on their website. But 
unfortunately, they didnt spell out anything more about it  for example, some basics of how 
it would work; that it would avoid any impact on his credit file or provide a link to its details. If they had, then its likely that Mr B wouldve applied for and had agreed a three-month 
payment holiday for June 2020 to August 2020 and then again from September 2020 to 
November 2020. Barclaycard have said to us that it wouldve been agreed. This would have 
meant that the missed payments would not have been added to Mr Bs credit file.
This is the key point here. Mr B shouldve been offered a payment holiday and been advised 
how it could help him. But  this didnt happen. 
On the other hand, I didnt see that Mr B went online and applied for a payment holiday  as 
he couldve done. If he had, it couldve been agreed from (say) the end of June 2020  and 
he couldve asked Barclaycard for it to be backdated to cover the June 2020 payment. I also 
accept however, that Mr B was having trouble in getting through to Barclaycard on the phone 
during the period  and this may have prevented him from doing that.
Barclaycard have also said that Mr B couldve used other methods of payment to pay into his 
Barclaycard account  such as online banking, telephone banking or at a Barclays branch. 
This is a reasonable point  and Mr B couldve prevented or reduced the arrears on his 
account by doing that. Ive seen his bank statements and while Im not aware of his overall 
commitments, it does appear that he may have had some funds available to make some, or 
part of the payments during the months between June 2020 and October 2020. So  I am 
taking these points into account when deciding upon the outcome of this complaint.
Mr B has said that he couldnt easily speak to Barclaycard because of the long wait times on 
the phone  and I can accept that. Barclaycard told us that this was caused by the 
pandemic, with many staff being off sick or working from home. Theyve acknowledged that 
this was a known problem at the time. 
Mr B has also said that Barclaycard breached data security when they didnt complete 
sufficient checks when he wished his wife to handle his complaint. Barclaycard have 
admitted this and apologised  and paid compensation of £75. I dont consider and there 
was any adverse effect of what happened here. I listened to the call on 16 June 2020  and 
while this wasnt the occasion in question, Mr B did state then that he wanted his wife to 
speak to Barclaycard on his behalf - so there was an intention for her to do that. 
Barclaycard have paid compensation of £100 plus a refund of interest of £121.23  being the 
interest in June 2020 and July 2020. If Mr B had been given a payment holiday (as he 
should have), then this interest would have been payable. And so  the refund of interest is a 
benefit to Mr B. He has also said he wants a refund of the amount of arrears he had to pay - 
£518.78 was paid in October 2020. This was made up of missed payments for the five 
months between June 2020 and October 2020.  Ive considered this. The minimum 
payments comprised of interest (which would have been payable under the payment holiday 
scheme) and capital (which is money that Mr B had spent on the card and its therefore fair 
that he repays it). So  I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclaycard to refund this amount. 
And so  on balance and taking into account the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, I 
believe the compensation of £100, plus the refund of interest of £121.23 for what happened 
is right.
Mr B has questioned whether it was fair to credit his credit card account with the 
compensation payments of £100 and £75  as these have only paid the debit interest. Ive 
considered this also. The interest wouldve been payable under the payment holiday 
scheme. And so  the balance of the card account wouldve included the interest. And so  
by paying the compensation to Mr Bs card account, Barclaycard reduced the amount owing 
by Mr B  so he did benefit by the amount paid.I think the main thing to put right is the matter of missed payment markers added to Mr Bs 
credit file  as Mr B has asked when he put his complaint to us. I agree these should be 
removed as Mr B shouldve been given a payment holiday.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard must:
Remove any adverse information added to Mr Bs credit file between June 2020 and 
November 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman