DRN-2393362
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to 
him irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
Mr E has two credit card accounts with Barclaycard. Account 1 was opened in July 2010 with 
a limit of £4,500 and account 2 was opened in July 2011 with a limit of £1,000. The following 
proactive credit limit increases were applied to his accounts:  
Account 1 Account  2
November 2015 April 2017 April 2015 October 2015 
£7,500 £10,500 £3,000 £6,000
Mr E says he started experiencing financial difficulties around the time of the increases and 
used the credit cards to cover other debt. He says the repayments werent affordable which 
led to him defaulting on accounts with other lenders. Mr E felt sufficient checks werent 
carried out by Barclaycard so he complained to them. 
Barclaycard responded and disagreed they had lent irresponsibly. They said, prior to each 
credit limit increase, they completed their internal credit checks. This, along with information 
they obtained from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), including Mr Es debt to income 
ratio, demonstrated he could afford the increases. Barclaycard said the information from the 
CRAs showed there were no defaults and no missed payments within the six months prior to 
the limit increases, indicating there was no financial difficulties. Barclaycard said they have 
found no evidence of missed payments prior to 2017 and no evidence Mr E requested 
assistance from them due to financial difficulties. They said, they therefore didnt have any 
opportunity to provide support and could only base their lending decisions on the information 
they had at the time on his credit file and his accounts with them. Barclaycard said they have 
a duty to report factual information to CRAs so, as the adverse information recorded on      
Mr Es credit file is accurate, they wont be taking any action to remove it.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr E. She thought Barclaycard hadnt carried out 
sufficient checks and upheld the complaint. And, she recommended Barclaycard refund all 
interest and charges following the credit limit increases. Mr E agreed but Barclaycard 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Mr Es credit card agreement sets out the terms and conditions of his account. This says 
Barclaycard will review his credit limit from time to time and if they increase his credit limit 
theyll give him 30 days notice. They say when Mr E receives the notice he can tell them not 
to increase it. The terms and conditions say Barclaycard wont increase Mr Es credit limit if 
they think he cant afford to make the repayments. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr E could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Barclaycard carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Barclaycard needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Barclaycard may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
Barclaycard is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, when applying the 
credit limit increases, Barclaycard considered information including any signs of over 
indebtedness or delinquency. They receive information from CRAs and use this, together 
with information on how Mr E is performing against his Barclaycard accounts, to work out a 
score which determines the probability of the account defaulting in the next 12 months  they 
refer to this as the probability of default score. 
I can see our investigator queries what specific information Barclaycard consider, for 
example, whether the checks take into account payday loans, any defaults on external 
accounts or any County Court Judgments. Barclaycard reply and say the checks they carry 
out contain both current internal delinquency checks and also a check for any delinquencies 
logged with the CRAs in the last six months. They say they concentrate on the main checks 
around delinquency, risk score and affordability. They say any payday loans would be 
considered as with any other loan commitment with the affordability assessment. They say 
the delinquency flag would be populated with any internal delinquent accounts of which there 
were none. They say the Bureau data worst current status marker would be populated with 
the highest delinquency recorded at the CRAs at the time of decision. They say this 
indicates Mr E had no delinquent accounts. Affordability status indicates the result of the 
affordability assessment which includes any loans Mr E had at the time of the credit limit 
increases including payday loans. They say this was assessed as green which means 
pass. 
I think the checks carried out by Barclaycard are reasonable and proportionate as they take 
into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would 
reasonably expect because they would help Barclaycard to not only build a picture of Mr Es 
financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a 
sustainable way. 
The next point Ive considered is whether Barclaycard made a fair lending decision bearing 
in mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Es circumstances. To help 
decide this, Ive looked at how Mr E was performing against both accounts over the period 
the credit limits were increased. Account 1 
Ive looked at how Mr E was managing this account in the 12 months prior to the first 
increase. Ive decided to look at 12 months because I believe it helps to build a reasonable 
profile of Mr Es performance. The statements for account 1 show, in those 12 months 
between November 2014 to October 2015, Mr E goes over his credit limit on six occasions 
and is charged an over limit fee each time. And, Mr E is managing the account at between 
97% to 102% of his credit limit. The balance showing on Mr Es November 2015 statement is 
£4,449.73. The credit limit is then increased to £7,500 on 22 November 2015 and the 
balance showing the following month on Mr Es December 2015 statement is £7,496.24. 
This shows Mr E used the additional credit facility immediately.  
Looking at the 12 months prior to the second credit limit increase on this account  and while 
Mr Es credit limit is £7,500  he goes over his credit limit on eight occasions and is charged 
an over limit fee each time. And, Mr E is managing the account at between 99% to 106% of 
his credit limit. The balance showing on Mr Es March 2017 statement is £7,942.15. The 
credit limit is then increased to £10,500 on 3 April 2017 and the balance showing the 
following month on Mr Es May 2017 statement is £10,424.15. This shows Mr E used the 
additional credit facility immediately. 
Between May to August 2017, Mr E goes over his credit limit each month and is charged an 
over limit fee each time. Mr E then contacts Barclaycard for financial support in August 2017.  
The statements say If you make only the minimum payment each month, it will take you
longer and cost you more to clear your balance. Looking at the statements provided by 
Barclaycard for this account, between December 2011 to April 2017 (when the second credit 
limit increase is applied) Mr E pays more than his minimal payment on only one occasion. 
On all other occasions, he makes only the minimal payment each month.      
Account 2
Again, Ive focussed on how Mr E was managing this account in the 12 months prior to the 
first increase. The statements for account 2 show, in the 12 months between April 2014 to 
March 2015, Mr E goes over his credit limit on two occasions and is charged an over limit 
fee each time. And, Mr E is managing the account at between 95% to 100% of his credit 
limit. The balance showing on Mr Es March 2015 statement is £979.79. The credit limit is 
then increased to £3,000 on 21 April 2015 and the balance showing the following month on 
Mr Es May 2015 statement is £2,675.42. This shows Mr E used a significant proportion of 
the additional credit facility immediately.  
Mr Es credit limit is again increased  this time on 27 October 2015  which is six months 
after the previous increase. There appear to be some statements missing from the 
information provided by Barclaycard and I cant see Mr Es statements from June to July 
2015 and September to October 2015. Looking at the statements which have been provided 
 and while Mr Es credit limit is £3,000  hes managing the account at between 89% to 
99% of his credit limit. The balance showing on Mr Es August 2015 statement is £2,967.03. 
The credit limit is then increased to £6,000 on 27 October 2015. Again, some statements are 
missing from the information provided but the January 2016 statement shows Mr Es balance 
as £6,178.65. This again shows Mr E used the additional credit facility very soon after it 
became available.
Looking at the statements provided by Barclaycard for this account, between August 2011 to 
October 2015 (when the second credit limit increase is applied) Mr E pays more than his 
minimal payment on four occasions  this being between August to December 2011 which is the first few months after opening this account. Thereafter, and on all other occasions, Mr E 
only makes his minimal payment each month.      
In addition to this, its also worth noting, CONC makes reference to significantly increasing 
credit limits and I can see, in relation to account 2, Barclaycard increase Mr Es credit limit by 
600% in just a little over six months. 
  
Taking this all into account, I dont think Mr E was managing his accounts well. Barclaycard 
say the increases were processed proactively in recognition of Mr Es excellent account 
management  but I think there were a number of factors suggesting the accounts werent 
being managed well. The evidence shows Mr E was always very close to his credit limit and, 
on a number of occasions, went over his credit limit. He was only making minimal payments 
each month apart from only a very few occasions when he paid more. And, as soon as the 
additional credit facility became available, he was using it immediately. I think the account 
management here shouldve acted as a warning to Barclaycard that Mr Es circumstances 
didnt warrant credit limit increases and would put him in additional difficulties.  
External factors considered by Barclaycard 
Ive also looked at other factors which Barclaycard took into account at the point the credit 
limit increases were applied. Barclaycard received information from CRAs which showed no 
missed payments on other accounts or any flags suggesting Mr E was becoming            
over-indebted. Barclaycard say the maximum score for the probability of default is 9999, with 
1 being the best score. I can see this was calculated for each credit limit increase and, in 
relation to account 1, for the credit limit increase to £7,500 the probability of default score is 
592  which means there was a 5.9% chance of Mr E defaulting in the next 12 months. 
Then, when increasing the limit to £10,500, the score is 485 (4.8%). 
In relation to account 2, for the credit limit increase to £3,000, the probability of default score 
is 177 (1.7%). Then, when increasing his credit limit to £6,000, the score is 144 (1.4%). 
Barclaycard say their threshold for lending requires a score of 600 or less, and the score at 
the time of each credit limit increase was within this threshold. 
Barclaycard say the affordability marker status includes any loans Mr E had at the time of 
the credit limit increases including payday loans. I can see this is marked as green for all 
increases, which Barclaycard say means Mr E has passed the affordability assessment. Ive 
looked at information provided by Mr E which shows he makes a number of applications for 
payday loans. Mr E has provided a list showing 24 loans he takes out between November 
2014 to December 2015. Leading up to the first credit increase on 21 April 2015, Mr E takes 
out eight payday loans, with six of these being taken out between January to April 2015. 
Then, prior to the next two increases in October and November 2015, Mr E has taken out 
another 15 payday loans  all of these being within six months of the October increase. Mr E 
has provided bank statements which show a number of loans going into his account. For 
example, a number of loans for £1,000 from the same lender. Mr E has also provided 
evidence in the form of emails from various lenders confirming approval for loans with 
confirmation the funds will be sent to his nominated bank account. So, based on the 
information Ive seen, its clear Mr E had applied for, and received, a high number of loans in 
the few months leading up to all credit limit increases in 2015.   
This shows significant short term borrowing by Mr E in the form of payday loans over a 
relatively short period of time. Barclaycard say their affordability marker takes this into 
account. 
So, I feel it shouldve pointed towards Mr E being in a difficult financial position and needing 
short term loans to either meet other repayment liabilities or to otherwise make ends meet. This wouldve highlighted that Mr E wouldnt be able to repay the extra credit in a sustainable 
manner and without any undue difficulty. 
    
I can see Mr E contacts Barclaycard shortly after the final increase in April 2017 to discuss 
his financial difficulties. Barclaycard then set up a reduced repayment plan for both 
accounts. In relation to account 1 they write to Mr E and say, as long as he continues to pay 
£195.56 each month, hell clear the balance by November 2023. And, the interest will be 3%. 
Barclaycard say they will tell the CRAs that Mr E has agreed a reduced repayment plan 
which will affect his credit file. An identical letter is sent to Mr E in relation to account 2 also  
in this case the reduced monthly repayment sum is £109.39. 
We expect lenders to treat consumers, who are experiencing financial difficulty, 
sympathetically and positively. While I acknowledge Barclaycard do take steps to help Mr E 
when he contacts them to discuss his financial circumstances, it doesnt change the fact that 
there were, in my opinion, clear indicators to suggest Mr E wouldnt be able to repay any 
additional credit in a sustainable manner.  
Barclaycard have provided a template letter which they say is sent to customers when they 
offer a proactive credit limit increase. And, they say this was sent to Mr E prior to each credit 
limit increase. This lets a customer know what the new credit limit will be and allows them an 
opportunity to opt out. Barclaycard say Mr E had the opportunity to decline the credit limit 
increases and I acknowledge the letter does say this. However, Mr E has told us, given the 
financial challenges he was facing at the time the credit limit increase offers were made, he 
accepted them in order to help cover other debts. Im persuaded this was the case in view of 
the significant number of loan applications he makes and his bank statements showing a 
number of loans arriving into his account. I believe Mr Es financial position meant he 
wouldnt have opted out of any credit increase regardless of the level of increase. And the 
fact that Mr E didnt opt out doesnt change the fact Barclaycard have a responsibility to 
make a fair lending decision.
In response to our investigators view, Barclaycard provide information from a specific CRA 
which shows data they took into account to calculate an Income Confidence Factor (ICF). 
They say this is a measure of the CRAs confidence in Mr Es income and Barclaycard will 
only increase a credit limit where the CRA has confidence this is affordable. Barclaycard 
have provided a spreadsheet for both accounts which shows a detailed breakdown of the 
information considered when applying credit limit increases. For account 1, and on both 
occasions the credit limit is increased, in the month prior to the increase the ICF is greater 
than six. And, for account 2, in the month prior to both credit limit increases, the ICF is 
greater than six. Looking at the code provided by Barclaycard, this suggests the CRA has 
taken into consideration Mr Es income based on current account data. 
Looking at the information in the spreadsheets, I dont disagree theres relevant information 
here to help Barclaycard build a reasonable profile of Mr Es suitability for a credit limit 
increase. Theres detail around his external borrowing and monthly spending. Ive taken this 
into account, but as mentioned above, I think Barclaycard did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. And, this information further supports my view. However, it doesnt 
persuade me that Barclaycard made a fair decision to lend. The information in the 
spreadsheets focusses more on income but the factors I feel are most relevant in this case 
are Mr Es increased reliance on payday loans leading up to the credit increases and his 
performance in managing his two Barclaycard accounts. These factors shouldve acted as 
clear indicators to Barclaycard that Mr E would struggle to repay the additional credit in a 
sustainable manner.       
Taking this all into account, I think Barclaycard have acted unreasonably in increasing Mr Es 
credit limits on both accounts. I can see Mr E wants Barclaycard to clear his balance. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Barclaycard to do that as Mr E has had the benefit of 
the money he has borrowed so its fair that he should pay the principal amount back.     
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly to Mr E when they increased his credit 
limits on account 1 and account 2. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending and 
Barclaycard should put this right. So, they should refund all interest, fees and charges 
accrued or incurred on account 1 as a result of the credit card limits being increased from 
November 2015. And, they should refund all interest, fees and charges accrued or incurred 
on account 2 as a result of the credit card limits being increased from April 2015. This would 
put Mr E back in the position he would have been in were it not for the credit limit increases. 
Any refund should be deducted from the amount Mr E owes on each respective account and 
if this results in there being an outstanding balance on either or both accounts, then 
Barclaycard should contact Mr E to arrange a suitable and affordable repayment plan.  
If however, after the refund is deducted, this results in there being a credit balance in Mr Es 
favour, Barclaycard must pay this amount to Mr E together with 8% simple interest, 
calculated from the dates of any overpayments to the date that the payment is made to Mr E. 
If the balance has already been cleared then Barclaycard should pay the refund to Mr E 
together with 8% simple interest, calculated from the dates of any overpayments to the date 
that the payment is made to Mr E.   
If there is such a refund, then Barclaycard should provide Mr E with a certificate showing any 
taxation deducted.
Barclaycard must also remove all adverse reporting from Mr Es credit file for account 1 from 
November 2015 onwards and for account 2 from April 2015 onwards.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things 
right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman