DRN-3881960
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Starling Bank Limited (Starling) handled his fraud claim.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr C found a car advertised on an online marketplace that he was 
interested in buying. Mr C says his contact with the seller was via SMS and phone calls and 
that the advert had photos and details of the car being sold. Mr C completed an HPI check 
which confirmed there wasnt any outstanding finance, the car wasnt stolen and that the car 
had a valid MOT. Mr C also arranged an RAC inspection, with the expectation that he would 
collect the car in person the day after the inspection. Mr C says that as part of his checks he 
researched the sellers name and contact details online and was convinced they were 
genuine.
Once Mr C paid the deposit of £500 from his Starling bank account, the seller started 
demanding more money and Mr C became aware he was the victim of a scam.
Mr C raised a fraud claim with Starling on 1 March 2022 and asked them to refund him. 
Startling requested more information from Mr C including copies of all communication 
between him and the seller as well as pictures from the car advert.
On 12 March, Starling contacted Mr C and said theyd considered his claim under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) but wouldnt be refunding him as he hadnt 
taken reasonable steps to check that the seller or the car were genuine. They said theyd 
contacted the beneficiary bank, but no funds could be recovered.
Mr C asked Starling some questions regarding recovery of his funds from the beneficiary 
bank and Starling responded the same day.
On 20 March, Mr C contacted Starling asking for an explanation of what reasonable steps 
they felt he shouldve taken and raised a further question about recovery of funds.
Starling responded to Mr C on 23 March suggesting that he raise a complaint if he wasnt 
happy with how his fraud claim had been handled.
Mr C responded to say he wasnt complaining about how his case was handled. He told 
Staring he wanted to understand the process theyd followed in considering his claim and 
how theyd reached their decision. In response Starling referred Mr C to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) and provided a link to the CRM Code online.
On 27 March, Mr C asked Starling to raise a formal complaint saying he didnt understand 
how theyd reached their decision.
On 1 April, Starling responded to Mr Cs complaint. As part of that email, they referenced 
having talked to their investigations team to gain further understanding about the decision 
reached. And went on to provide the following explanation, in this case, as you were paying 
towards a car, a check that should have been made would have been to make sure that 
there was a car for sale by viewing it in person before paying anything towards the purchase. 
If it was not possible to view in person, you could have verified the product by contacting the 
merchant through Facetime or Skype. You should have also requested proof of ownership 
for the vehicle. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Starlings response, so he brought a complaint to this service. 
Mr C told us his complaint was about Starlings lack of explanation as to why he wasnt 
entitled to a refund. Mr C feels Starling ignored him and didnt read his messages requesting 
clarification about which checks he shouldve done, and that he was unable to fairly 
challenge the outcome Starling reached without that clarification. To put things right Mr C 
would like his £500 returned or to be compensated for his time.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. They didnt recommend that 
Starling refund Mr C under the CRM Code, agreeing that he hadnt done enough checks 
considering the price of the car was too good to be true. Also, the investigator felt Starling 
werent in breach of the CRM Code, saying they had explained what checks Mr C shouldve 
done. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion referring specifically to the CRM Code section 
on Governance and Oversight  clause GO12.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr Cs main complaint points are around the explanation Starling gave as to 
why it wasnt reimbursing him under the CRM Code. However, for completeness I have 
considered whether Mr C is entitled to a refund under the Code.
Is Mr C entitled to a refund under the CRM Code?
Starling are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or service; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
 * There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Having reviewed the case, I agree that Starling can rely on this exception to reimbursement 
for the following reasons:
Mr C was buying a car for £9,000 whereas the HPI check he completed suggested 
the value of the car was at least £21,000. This price is too good to be true, especially 
as the advert said the car was in excellent condition inside and out and came with a full servicing and maintenance history. Im not satisfied that the reason Mr C was 
given as to why the seller wanted a quick sell explains such a discount in the price.
While Mr C completed an HPI check, he didnt do any checks to ensure that the 
seller owned the vehicle. He didnt see the car either in person or through a video call 
and he didnt ask for any ownership documents, for example: the logbook, or V5.
When Mr C tried to arrange to see the car in person, the seller provided excuses as 
to why this couldnt happen, and I dont think it was unreasonable to expect Mr C to 
have seen the car prior to paying the deposit.
The seller told Mr C that the car was in Nottingham, however the advert said it was in 
Lincoln. I cant see that Mr C questioned this.
The advert for the car that Mr C has given us, shows the pictures that were on the 
listing and the information about the car specs, but it doesnt show the sellers profile, 
how many reviews they had, or what percentage of their reviews were positive.
Taking all of these points into consideration as a whole, rather than on an individual basis, 
Im not satisfied Mr C had a reasonable basis to believe that the seller was legitimate or that 
they genuinely had the goods. I think there were enough red flags that Mr C shouldve taken 
steps to verify the authenticity of the person he was dealing with and the goods they were 
selling before making the payment. 
The customer service Mr C has received from Starling
I appreciate Mr Cs strength of conviction that Starling havent met their obligations under the 
CRM Code, specifically around the Governance and Oversight clause GO12. 
This clause says: Firms should ensure that all communications with the Customer regarding 
the reimbursement decision are clear and contain an appropriate level of information to 
enable the Customer to understand how the Firm has reached its decision. 
However, Im satisfied that Starling have provided Mr C with an appropriate explanation of 
why they werent reimbursing him under the CRM Code. 
I accept that their initial response to Mr C on 12 March couldve provided a fuller explanation 
around the checks they felt he shouldve done. But their response to him on 1 April was clear 
and specified the checks they wouldve expected based on the information he had to hand at 
the time of making the payment. Also, its important to take into account that while Starling 
couldve provided clearer information sooner to Mr C, ultimately, I agree with the outcome 
they reached. And, based on all the information that Mr C has given to this service and 
Starling, Im not satisfied there is anything further Mr C couldve said to Starling that was 
likely to change their position on the case. So, even if they had specified which checks they 
thought Mr C shouldve made in their initial response, Im not satisfied that it wouldve 
resulted in a different outcome for Mr C.
Mr C has asked if he can go back to Starling and get them to reconsider his complaint based 
on him having a better understanding of why they declined his claim. However, Mr C has 
already raised his concerns with Starling in relation to the outcome they reached, and 
theyve issued their final response on the matter. Mr C has also brought his complaint to this 
service, which is the next step when a customer doesnt agree with Starlings response, and 
had his case independently reviewed. So, there is no further recourse regarding his 
complaint through Starling or this service.Having carefully considered everything that Mr C has told us, Im satisfied that Starling has 
provided an appropriate level of information as to how theyve reached their decision not to 
reimburse Mr C under the CRM Code. And, on this basis, I cant fairly uphold Mr Cs 
complaint or ask Starling to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman