DRN-1690546
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc stopped a genuine payment she made 
which caused her financial embarrassment. She only found out the payment had been 
stopped when trying to make another payment and found her account had been blocked. 
What happened
Mrs B tried to make a payment for over £3,000 on 12 June 2019 for some windows. Mrs B 
says she received a text asking her if the payment was genuine and that she only need reply 
if it wasnt. As the payment was genuine she did nothing further, expecting the payment to 
be made.
When she tried to make a payment a few days later over the phone she couldnt and was 
told her account had been blocked. She went through further security and the payment was 
released and her account unblocked. She was told she had been sent a message to contact 
the bank, which Mrs B says she never received. And since then this has happened again. 
She complained as this had caused her financial embarrassment. But as she didnt receive a 
response, she asked us to look into her complaint. NatWest sent us its file, showing a final 
response was sent to Mrs Bs complaint. Our investigator didnt find NatWest had done 
anything wrong; the payment had been checked as part of NatWests fraud prevention 
measures. 
Mrs B has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she says 
never received a copy of the final response and she was never made aware her account had 
been blocked; she was never told of this nor did she get a message asking her to contact the 
bank.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs B feels strongly about her complaint. But I can only reasonably uphold it if I find 
the bank has done something wrong. 
Mrs B made her payment on 12 June 2019. I understand she received a text message a 
short time later asking her to get in contact if the payment wasn't genuine. As it was she did 
nothing further; I can appreciate why Mrs B believed the payment would be made. 
However, banks are required to have fraud prevention and security measures in place to 
protect their customers money. What measures they have in place is a matter for them, and 
not something I'd generally interfere with. The terms and conditions of the account provide 
for payments to be suspended, or stop access to an account in certain circumstances. Mrs B 
doesn't believe the scenarios in clause 5.3 apply to her. The terms set out that:
We may suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such 
as your debit card or online banking) if:we reasonably believe that your security details or debit card details haven't been 
kept safe;
we reasonably suspect that your security details or your debit card could have been 
used fraudulently or without your permission;
as a result of a change in the way you use your account or in your financial 
circumstances, we reasonably believe that you may have difficulty in meeting your 
commitments;
a restriction applies to your account (for example, we're told about a dispute between 
joint account holders, which means the account can't be used until the dispute is 
resolved);
we believes it's appropriate in order to protect your account; or
you've broken any term of the agreement in a serious way.
We'll usually tell you before or immediately after we take any of these steps. We'll also 
explain why we've done so, unless we're able to contact you or there's a legal or 
security reason which means we can't provide an explanation. 
Having considered them carefully, it seems to me a number of the reasons given could 
apply, such as believing security details or a debit card being used fraudulently or to protect 
her account. Whilst Mrs B knew she was making a genuine payment, the bank held it back 
as part of its fraud prevention measures; it was a large and unusual payment for Mrs B. It 
was only on talking with Mrs B and passing further security that it satisfied itself the payment 
was genuine. I don't find NatWest has done anything wrong in checking the payment before 
releasing it.  
Mrs B says the only message she received asked her to get in touch if the payment wasn't 
genuine; she didn't receive any further message asking her to get in touch. 
NatWest's records suggest another message was sent to Mrs B but can't provide the 
content, so it's hard to know what happened. But I'm not persuaded the lack of a message 
means I should uphold this complaint. I've already found the bank was following its own 
security processes and procedures when stopping the payment and that it hadn't done 
anything wrong. And although Mrs B might not have known her account was blocked, I can't 
see that any further payments were attempted between then and her asking to make a 
further payment a few days later.  So I'm not making an award for this. 
Finally, I note Mrs B is unhappy that NatWest didn't respond to her complaint. We have been 
provided with a copy of a letter it sent to her on 16 July 2019, responding to her concerns. It 
was correctly addressed and so usually we would find, on balance, that it was correctly 
delivered. But even if I accept that Mrs B didn't get it, I don't find that to be the fault of 
NatWest; it isn't responsible for the delivery of mail once it leaves its offices. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I don't find NatWest was wrong to check the 
payment was genuine before releasing it; it was complying with its requirements to have 
steps in place to protect its customers money. It follows that I don't uphold this complaint and 
I make no award.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman