DRN-3661972
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments he says were fraudulently made 
from his account.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr C says he was woken from sleep by a payment notification from 
Revolut. Mr C discovered that four payments had been made from his account totalling 
£370. He contacted Revolut straight away and raised a fraud claim asking them to refund 
him.
Revolut investigated Mr Cs fraud claim but declined to refund him. They told Mr C that all 
four of the payments had been made via a mobile payment service (e-wallet). As Mr C had 
told them that his phone and card were in his possession at all times and neither had been 
lost, Revolut couldnt see how anyone else couldve used his card details or his e-wallet to 
make the transactions.
Mr C wasnt happy with Revoluts response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, they couldnt 
see how someone couldve accessed Mr Cs card information or his phone in order to 
complete the transactions via the mobile payment service.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying wed taken Revoluts word that the 
payments were made via an e-wallet. Mr C is adamant that the payments werent made by 
this method and feels weve taken sides. 
As Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Revolut have provided system screen shots which show the card payment method 
for all four payments was a mobile payment service (e-wallet). Im satisfied its more 
likely than not this is how the payments were made.
In order for someone to use the mobile payment service (e-wallet) on Mr Cs mobile 
phone, they would have to access his phone without Mr C knowing, unlock his phone 
and confirm the payments. Unlocking the phone and confirming the payments would 
usually require a PIN, fingerprint or face ID. As Mr C has told us no one had access 
to his phone, I cant see how this couldve happened. 
In order for someone to add Mr Cs card details to the e-wallet on their mobile phone, 
they would have to access Mr Cs card details including the information on the front 
of the card as well as the three digit CVV on the back. Also, Revolut say a single use 
confirmation code (SMS) wouldve been sent to Mr Cs phone (the registered contact 
details Revolut hold) to confirm the card use in the new e-wallet. Mr C has told us 
that no one had access to his card and he hasnt lost his card. Also, as mentioned 
above, Mr C has told us that no one else had access to his phone - so I cant see 
how someone else couldve added his card to their e-wallet without Mr C knowing.
Mr C has suggested that someone obtained his card details when he used his card 
online for genuine purchases. However, they would still have to complete the steps 
set out above in order to add his card to their e-wallet.
I realise that Mr C is going to be very disappointed in this outcome. But considering all the 
information that both he and Revolut have provided, I cant see how someone else couldve 
completed these transactions without Mr Cs knowledge and consent. Therefore, I cant fairly 
hold Revolut liable or ask them to refund Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman