DRN-1888924
The complaint
Mr C and Ms D complain that, in 2005, HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account (PBA). Mr C and Ms D complain that they have been paying 
for this without knowing. 
What happened
Mr C and Ms D had had a fee-free bank account with HSBC for many years. In 2005, this 
was changed to include the First Directory addition which is in effect a PBA. This originally 
cost £9.50 a month, and provided a number of benefits including travel insurance, mobile 
phone insurance, fee-free withdrawal of cash abroad, and commission-free foreign currency 
and travellers cheques.  
Mr C and Ms D say they werent aware of the monthly fees and didnt agree to them. They 
said they had no need for the insurance, and they moved abroad (outside the UK and 
European Union) in September 2005 and had lived there ever since. They say this meant 
they were not eligible for the account and the insurance cover anyway. They want the 
monthly fees refunded to them. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr C and Ms D didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked first at whether I can say the PBA was mis-sold in April 2005. It might be a 
mis-sale if Mr C and Ms D didnt agree to it, or because HSBC made an inappropriate 
recommendation, or didnt give Mr C and Ms D important information that would have 
made a difference to whether they took the PBA. 
In deciding something like this, I must take into account a few things. First, it wouldnt be 
fair to make HSBC prove that it didnt do something wrong, such as changing the account 
without authority, especially when it all happened so many years ago. There would have 
to be reasonable supporting evidence before I could fairly conclude it had done this. And, 
secondly, Im also conscious that this happened about 16 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr C and Ms D didnt remember the detail of everything that happened so 
long ago  so I couldnt fairly put much weight solely on what they now remember. 
Theres very little documentary evidence  and I cant hold this against HSBC, as its not 
normally required to keep records going back that far. But HSBC says the records is has 
show that the addition of First Directory was arranged in a phone conversation with Ms D 
in April 2005.  Ive looked a screen clippings, and this does seem to support HSBCs 
version of events. 
The little evidence there is, suggests it was probably added following a conversation in 
which Ms D asked for it to be added. And, in any case, I cant fairly conclude the PBA was 
added without Mr C and Ms Ds proper agreement. There just isnt enough evidence. 
It looks unlikely that HSBC did recommend the PBA  in the sense of making the 
customer believe HSBC had assessed their needs and that the PBA would suit those 
needs. But it still had to give enough information about the PBA. And because of the time 
that has passed, I cant know what was said  theres no phone recording now available, 
or written notes. So Ive thought about whether full information would have made a 
difference to whether the PBA was taken (assuming that Mr C and Ms D agreed to the 
PBA, which I accept they say they didnt). And I cant see that it would have. At the time, it 
appears Mr C and Ms D were eligible for the PBA, including its insurance cover. And 
theyve said they travelled, and so could have made use of the travel insurance and 
foreign currency benefits. 
So I couldnt fairly say that better information would have made a difference to whether or 
not they took the PBA. 
I accept that Mr C says theyve since been advised that they ineligible for the PBA 
insurance benefits, because they are not resident in the UK (although Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the travel insurance for 2006, and this isnt clear cut). But, at the 
time, they were UK residents, and so were eligible. I cant see that it should later have 
become clear to HSBC that they werent resident in the UK or eligible for the benefits:  
there is a file note of November 2006 which suggests that Mr C told HSBC that, although 
abroad for much of the year, he was otherwise living in the UK. And in 2013 the bank 
recorded an address change from an overseas address to a UK address. There is also 
evidence of the account benefiting significantly from fee-free foreign cash withdrawals  
so it would have seemed the PBA was being of use to Mr C and Ms D. 
I also can see evidence of regular mailings by HSBC about the PBA and its benefits. 
So I also dont have good evidence to say HSBC acted unreasonably after the sale of the 
PBA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr C and Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman