DRN-3029177
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy Mrs M took 
in 2008. She says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office, (BoI) mis-sold the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Mrs M had been with her employer four years at the time of the sale and, from what shes 
told us, she was entitled to no more than statutory pay for sickness or redundancy and didnt 
have anything else, like savings, to pay her card with if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought BoIs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mrs M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoI should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that BoIs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each 
of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs M says the PPI was just included with her card. But her application form for the card 
had a box to tick if she wanted it and a space for her to sign to confirm she understood 
she was buying it. By the box it said: I wish to purchase Payment Protection Insurance 
and on Mrs Bs form this was ticked and she signed the space for the PPI, separately 
from signing for the card itself. Nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken, and by 
the box and below where Mrs M signed for the PPI the form said the PPI was optional. 
With all this in mind, I think it more likely BoI made it clear Mrs M didnt have to take the 
PPI and she chose to take it.
BoI didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information BoI gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve done so without having at 
least a broad idea of the cover it provided - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for her either. It looks like it couldve been useful 
for her if something went wrong, given what shes told us about her work benefits and 
savings, for example. It also looks like the cover was affordable.
 
Also, Mrs M wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover  for 
example, nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim 
and she didnt have health issues so wasnt affected by exclusions for pre-existing health 
issues. Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mrs M, from 
the information its likely she was given, thought she was buying  and with all this in 
mind, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had BoI done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her  and I think 
she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs M wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time, 
given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I think that she wouldve 
taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant BoI should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs Ms representatives havent said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoI doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided BoI should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BoIs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoI didnt tell Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between BoI 
and Mrs M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because BoI didnt 
tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think BoI acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ms representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoI failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken the policy 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. 
Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoI not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoIs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for BoI to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and return 
some of the money Mrs M paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs M 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken if BoI had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoIs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in line 
with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. I gather from BoI that this 
was paid to Mrs M in October 2019.
 
As BoI has already paid Mrs M compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Mrs M an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do 
not consider that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman