DRN-4211858
The complaint
Mr P complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P has mobile phone insurance underwritten by Assurant. He took out the policy in April 
2023, as a benefit offered when opening a new bank account.
The day after taking out the policy, Mr P says he dropped and broke the phone. And he 
made a claim to Assurant.
In line with the terms of the policy, Assurant asked Mr P to provide proof of ownership and 
usage of the phone. The document(s) Mr P then provided appeared to show the phone was 
owned by Mr Ps former partner. And on that basis, Assurant declined the claim.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Assurant. And when they maintained 
their position he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought the complaint should be upheld and Assurant 
should reconsider the claim under the remaining terms of the policy. 
Mr P had provided evidence to suggest that the phone had always been his but had been 
registered with the provider under his ex-partners name simply so that they could take 
advantage of discounts offered when several phones were registered to the same account.
Assurant disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what the terms of the policy say. They require the policyholder 
to provide proof of ownership of the phone when making a claim. And they say Assurant 
may decline the claim if there is no proof of ownership.
Theres also no dispute that at the time the claim was made, the phone was still in the name 
of Mr Ps ex-partner.
If we apply a very strict reading of the policy terms then, Assurant would be entitled to 
decline the claim. The question for me is whether applying those terms so strictly in this 
particular case is fair.
I fully understand Assurants reticence to settle this claim. And I fully understand their 
legitimate need to set out policy terms which guard against fraud and dishonest or 
exaggerated claims.
However, I hope Assurant would agree with me that it wouldnt be fair for them to decline a 
claim on a technicality, based on a very strict interpretation of the policy wording, if everyone 
involved knew that the claim was not fraudulent, dishonest or exaggerated in any way.
In this particular case, given all of the evidence available to us and to Assurant, Im satisfied 
that everyone involved knows, beyond any reasonable level of doubt, that the phone was in 
fact Mr Ps and was used by Mr P, not his ex-partner.
The evidence to support this is as follows.
One  when Mr P took out the policy, he listed this specific phone as his and as the phone to 
be covered by his policy. I realise of course that this was very soon before the claim was 
made and doesnt conclusively show that Mr P didnt already have the intention to have his 
former partners phone fixed or replaced by Assurant. But Im taking it into account along 
with the rest of the evidence (below).
Two  its not clear why, if this were Mr Ps former partners phone, he wanted to insure it 
rather than whatever phone he was in fact using. I understand it might have already been 
damaged, but at the very least, Mr P might be left without any cover for his own phone if he 
used this policy to insure his former partners phone instead. 
Again, I realise this isnt conclusive, but it does need to be put into the context of the rest of 
the evidence. Its also not immediately clear why, if Mr P and his former partner had cooked 
up a plan to get an already damaged phone repaired just after taking out the insurance, 
Mr Ps former partner didnt simply take out her own insurance policy.
Three  the phone provider accepted that the phone was in fact Mr Ps and changed the 
ownership details accordingly. I understand this switch occurred after the claim had been 
made, but it appears to me that the supplier didnt doubt Mr Ps former partners explanation 
that the phone had always belonged to Mr P.
Four  a phone of this exact make and model was registered to Mr Ps Google account in 
October 2022  around seven months before the policy inception and the claim. It could be a 
different phone of exactly the same type, but on the face of it, thats the less likely 
explanation.
Five  a phone of exactly this make and model appears on Mr Ps account with the phone 
manufacturer in October 2022. Again, it may be different phone, but on balance thats not 
the most straightforward explanation.
Six  Mr Ps Facebook account shows hes logged in at times with a phone of exactly this 
make and model. Again, on balance, its most likely its the same phone.
Seven  Mr P has produced a receipt for the purchase of the phone, dated February 2022. 
Its possible this was passed on to him by his former partner, but Mr P says it was his 
receipt. Theres nothing to suggest it isnt. And the alternative explanation requires a degree 
of conspiracy that might be less likely given that the third party is in fact Mr Ps former 
partner.
Finally, Assurant have now accepted that the phone currently belongs to Mr P. And theyve 
said theyll cover any further loss or damage to that phone if Mr P has it repaired this time.
I think thats a reasonable thing for Assurant to do. And I dont want to penalise them in any 
way for making that offer. But it does show that they accept the phone is now in fact Mr Ps. 
It also reflects the fact that the supplier has accepted the phone belongs to Mr P  as Ive said above.
If the phone is now Mr Ps, then it either has been all along or its been given to him just 
before or just after the claim was made  and in an attempt to succeed with a fraudulent or 
dishonest claim. 
If its been his all along, then Assurant shouldnt reject the claim on the basis that Mr P cant 
demonstrate he owned it.
If it hasnt been Mr Ps all along, its very difficult to work out how any conspiracy between 
Mr P and his former partner might have benefitted the former partner. Shes gone to some 
trouble to get the supplier to recognise the phone as Mr Ps. 
If Mr P then simply takes the phone into his ownership, theres no immediately obvious 
benefit to Mr Ps former partner which could justify her taking the risk of assisting with a 
fraudulent or dishonest claim.
So, in summary, there is quite a lot of evidence to suggest the phone belonged to Mr P all 
along. None of it is entirely conclusive, when taken in isolation, but it adds up to a picture 
which suggests its far more likely than not that the phone belonged to Mr P  and was used 
by Mr P  from February 2022.
Given the weight of that evidence, I dont think it would be reasonable or fair for Assurant to 
doubt Mr Ps version of events. Theres no other reason I can see to doubt his word. And I 
note that Mr Ps account is consistent, coherent and, on the face of it, entirely credible. 
Its also very difficult to see what ruse Mr P and his former partner might be trying to 
perpetrate which wouldnt have been far simpler and easier if the former partner had made a 
claim under her own insurance policy.  
As I said, I can understand that Assurants policy wording  and their interpretation of it  are 
designed to guard against fraudulent, dishonest or exaggerated claims. And I dont think 
they should be criticised for that. 
But I think its reasonably clear that Mr P is most likely not being fraudulent or dishonest - or 
exaggerating his claim  in this case. And to be fair, Assurant havent accused him of doing 
any of those things.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable or fair for Assurant to decline the claim on the basis 
of a very strict and unbending interpretation of the policy terms when they either accept  or 
have sufficient evidence to reasonably persuade them to accept  that Mr P did in fact own 
and use the phone. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think Assurant can fairly decline the claim because 
of a lack of proof of ownership. 
However, I am aware that, having made that decision previously, they havent had the 
chance to consider the claim against the rest of the policy terms  and/or to decide how it 
should be settled, if it is accepted.
That being the case, I agree with our investigator that the fair outcome here is to require 
Assurant to re-consider the claim under the remaining policy terms.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited must re-consider the claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman