DRN-2070521
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his personal loan application.
What happened
Mr K, an HSBC employee, had been sent three letters from HSBC over the course of six 
months, offering him the opportunity to apply for a personal loan. These said he was likely to 
be approved for a loan at an interest rate of 3.3%.
Mr K wanted to consolidate his credit card debt, but he initially applied to Lender S for a 
loan, because they were offering a lower interest rate. But Lender S asked him for more 
information and, because he wanted the loan quickly, he didnt continue with this application.
Mr K then applied to HSBC for a loan, but this application was declined. He was told that, as 
a staff member, the decline may be able to be overturned, but hed need a staff marker put 
on his account. Before he did this, Mr K successfully applied for a loan with Lender T at an 
interest rate of 5.9% and used this to consolidate his credit cards.
Once the staff marker was on his account, Mr K asked HSBC to overturn their decline 
decision - he planned to use the HSBC loan to repay Lender T. HSBC initially told Mr K his 
loan had been approved. But the next day he was told the loan was still declined.
Mr K complained to HSBC about how his application had been dealt with. He was also 
unhappy that HSBC sent marketing letters to every customer, and that his credit file had now 
been adversely affected by the decline. HSBC agreed theyd incorrectly told Mr K that his 
loan was approved when it hadnt been, and they paid him £50 for the inconvenience this 
had caused. Mr K was unhappy with this as a resolution to his complaint and has asked the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator said the marketing material sent by HSBC was clear in that any loan 
application was subject to approval, and there was nothing to indicate that approval was 
guaranteed. She also thought HSBC had acted reasonably by applying their lending criteria 
to loan applications. So she didnt think theyd acted unreasonably by declining the loan in 
the first instance.
And HSBC had told Mr K that a staff marker could help his application, not that it would. So 
the investigator didnt think HSBC had mislead Mr K when they told him this. And she 
thought it was reasonable they didnt overturn the original decision to decline, because Mr 
Ks application still didnt fit HSBCs lending criteria.
But the investigator did think HSBC shouldnt have told Mr K his loan had been approved 
when it hadnt. She thought this was misleading, but she also thought HSBC had taken 
appropriate measures to put things right. And she was satisfied the £50 was fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances. So she didnt think HSBC needed do 
anything more.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, if it wasnt for HSBCs actions, he 
wouldve had a loan with Lender S at 2.8% instead of a loan with Lender T at 5.9%. And he 
doesnt think that £50 justifies the calls hes had to make, and the time he wasted going 
into a branch. And it doesnt cover the difference in the interest hes now being charged 
compared to what he couldve been charged. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K applied for a loan with HSBC, which they initially declined because he didnt fit their 
lending criteria. Ive listened to the call between Mr K and HSBC after this application was 
declined, and Mr K was told why he didnt meet the current lending criteria. Mr K asked that, 
as a staff member, if there was anything that could be done. He was told that, if he had a 
staff marker placed on his account, which could be done at his place of work or at a local 
branch, the underwriters can look to see if they could approve {the loan  but} I cant 
guarantee youll be accepted.
Theres nothing in this call where HSBC say that a staff marker will definitely mean the loan 
will be approved. So I dont think that HSBC misled or misinformed Mr K about how the staff 
marker would affect his loan application.
Mr K had the staff marker put on his account the same day and his loan application was 
referred to the underwriters. Between the initial decline and this referral to the underwriters, 
Mr K had successfully applied for a loan with Lender T. The underwriters asked Mr K for 
some additional information, which he provided. But the underwriters didnt overturn the 
initial decline decision as Mr K still didnt meet all of the lending criteria.
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what lending criteria financial 
business should have in place. This is a decision HSBC can make in line with its regulator  
The Financial Conduct Authority. For this reason I wont comment further on the specific 
reasons why Mr K didnt meet HSBCs lending criteria.
But I have noted that, by applying for a loan with Lender T after HSBC initially declined Mr 
Ks application, this wouldve led to a change in his financial circumstances. He wouldve had 
more searches against his name, and an additional financial commitment he didnt have 
when he applied to HSBC. So, even if a staff marker couldve made a difference to the initial 
loan application, these changed circumstances mayve stopped that being the case.
It also isnt disputed that, after the application was referred to the underwriters, Mr K was 
incorrectly told the loan had been accepted and the money would be available to him within 
a few days. I can understand the annoyance and frustration this would cause him when he 
found out the following day that this wasnt the case, and that the loan wasnt approved. 
But Mr K only believed the loan had been approved for a short period of time and, as he 
wanted to use this to repay some credit cards, he hadnt spent any money because he 
believed the loan monies were about to be out into his account. So the impact of being 
incorrectly told the loan had been approved was limited. Because of this, I think the £50 
HSBC have paid Mr K is reasonable in the circumstances. And this payment was to compensate Mr K for being incorrectly advised, not for the calls 
hed had to make to refer his account to the underwriters, or for the trip to a local branch to 
have a staff marker put on his account. These were things Mr K did as a result of the initial 
decline decision, not as a result of being incorrectly told his loan had been approved. So I 
wont be asking HSBC to increase this compensation. 
Mr K chose not to continue with the application with Lender S because theyd asked for more 
information. But, when HSBC initially declined his loan, he couldve continued his application 
with Lender S instead of making a third loan application, this time to Lender T. And he 
couldve continued with the application with Lender S when HSBC didnt overturn their 
decline decision. If approved, he couldve used this loan to repay Lender T. 
Ive also seen nothing to show me that, if Mr K had provided the additional information theyd 
asked for, that Lender S wouldve approved a loan at 2.8%. So I cant blame HSBC for Mr K 
now having a loan with Lender T, instead of with Lender S. And I wont be asking them to 
compensate Mr K by paying him the difference between the loan he has with Lender T and 
the loan he mightve had with Lender S.
Turning now to the marketing material Mr K had received, telling him about HSBCs personal 
loans. HSBC are entitled to advise customers of the products and services they offer, and 
which they think may be suitable for their customers needs. And, if Mr K doesnt want to 
receive this type of information, hes able to opt out. So I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong by telling Mr K about their personal loan offers. 
And, on the phone call when Mr K contacted HSBC about the initial decline, HSBC explained 
that marketing material is sent based on how customers maintain their accounts. But there 
are other factors that can affect if a loan application is approved, for example the information 
held with the credit reference agencies. So a letter offering a customer the opportunity to 
apply for a loan isnt a guarantee that a loan will be approved. Im satisfied that this is 
reasonable, and I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman