DRN-3825658
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr R connected with an individual L on a dating app. A short while after 
they started communicating, L suggested they could help Mr R make money from 
cryptocurrency trading. 
Between 30 October and 2 November, Mr R made four faster payments from his Monzo 
account to CoinClan  a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform  to purchase 
cryptocurrency, which was then sent on to a trading platform. Unbeknownst to Mr R at the 
time, the platform turned out to be a scam and his money ended up in the scammers 
account. 
In addition to the faster payments, Mr R also purchased cryptocurrency from other crypto 
exchanges using his Monzo debit card before sending it on to the trading platform. The 
following transactions were made from Mr Rs Monzo account in connection with this scam 
Date Type Payee/ 
MerchantAmount
30 October 2020 Faster payment CoinClan OU £20.00
31 October 2020 Faster payment CoinClan OU £688.50
1 November 2020 Faster payment CoinClan OU £79.00
2 November 2020 Faster payment CoinClan OU £2,550
26 November 2020 Debit card Binance £5,000
26 November 2020 Debit card Binance £4,900
8 December 2020 Debit card Banxa Okex £2,500
8 December 2020 Debit card Banxa Okex £1,700
22 December 2020 Debit card Banxa Okex £2,000
Total loss £19,437.50
In December 2020, Mr R became suspicious when he was asked to pay tax in order to make 
a withdrawal. He eventually realised hed been scammed and when he confronted L, they 
stopped communicating with him. 
Mr R reported the matter to the police and Action Fraud, but it wasnt until the end of March 
2021 that he reached out to Monzo and asked for its assistance. Monzo contacted the 
beneficiary bank regarding the faster payments, but no funds remained in the recipients 
account. It declined to refund any of the disputed transactions.
Our investigator didnt think Monzo did anything wrong in relation to the recovery of funds 
once it became aware of the scam. They also considered whether Monzo could have done 
more to prevent the funds from being sent in the first instance and concluded that it was 
unlikely that an intervention would have prevented or limited Mr Rs loss.
I issued my provisional decision last month. I said that I intended to uphold this complaint 
and set out the following reasons:
Recovery
Ive first considered whether Monzo could have done more with regards to the 
recovery of Mr Rs funds once he reported the matter to it.
Thinking about the faster payments, I can see that Monzo contacted the beneficiary 
bank as soon as it was notified of the scam. Unfortunately, no funds remained. This 
isnt surprising given the transactions happened in October-November 2020, but 
Mr R didnt contact Monzo until nearly five months later. Fraudsters tend to move 
money out of the beneficiary account as quickly as possible since they know that the 
victims bank will attempt to recover the funds when its notified of a scam. I dont 
think Monzo could have done anything further here  it did what Id expect it to do in 
this situation.
In relation to the debit card payments, the chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme 
set up to resolve card payment disputes between merchants and cardholders. The 
card scheme operator  MasterCard in this case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if 
it cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited grounds and 
limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be considered 
valid, and potentially succeed. 
Our service has sought clarification from MasterCard, and it has explained that if a 
merchant (in this case, the crypto exchange platform) doesnt make funds transferred 
to it available for use in the type of transactions for which it received them (in this 
case, converting fiat money into cryptocurrency), then there may be a chargeback 
right. 
But this isnt what happened here. The nature of Mr Rs claim is that hed fallen victim 
to a scam. Given that MasterCard has made it clear that there would be no 
reasonable prospect of success through its scheme for claims of this nature, I dont 
think Monzo acted unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback for the card transactions.
Duty of care
While I dont think that Monzo could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Mr Rs funds when it was made aware of the situation, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it ought to have intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
The disputed payments were authorised by Mr R using his log-in and debit card 
security credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, hes considered liable unless 
theres evidence that Monzo could and should reasonably have done more to protect 
him against the risk of fraud and scams, and that this would have made a difference 
to his decision-making.
Monzo ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer 
was at risk of fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from 
possible financial harm from fraud.
Ive considered that the disputed payments were sent to legitimate crypto exchanges. 
And I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had warned of crypto exchange 
and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019, Action Fraud published further 
warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. This type of insight is 
something that regulated businesses, including Monzo, ought to take notice of. 
What this means is that even if Mr R had been sending money to a legitimate crypto 
exchange, it didnt follow that his money was safe, or that he wasnt at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud or a scam. By the time Mr R made the payments, I think 
Monzo had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams 
worked to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the 
customer often first purchases cryptocurrency and moves it on to the fraudster under 
the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet or account. Ive kept this in 
mind when considering Mr Rs case.
Ive considered the operation of Mr Rs account in the months leading up to the 
disputed transactions. Like the investigator, I dont consider the faster payments (first 
four transactions) as particularly unusual or suspicious such that I think Monzo ought 
to have intervened. Mr R frequently made payments for amounts similar to the first 
three transactions. The fourth transaction was slightly higher in value than the regular 
spending on the account, but I dont consider it was that unusual or uncharacteristic 
such that I think Monzo ought to have paused it and made enquiries.
The fifth transaction  £5,000 on 26 November 2020 to Binance  was substantially 
higher than the other transactions on Mr Rs account. I find that this was so unusual 
that Monzos systems ought to have triggered an alert and the payment paused, 
pending further enquiries. Given the amount involved, and the fact that the payment 
was to a crypto exchange, I consider that it would have been reasonable for Monzo 
to have properly questioned Mr R before executing his authorised instruction.
  
Our investigator thought that an intervention from Monzo wouldnt have made a 
difference to Mr Rs decision-making. But I disagree with their conclusion. Had 
Monzo carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr R about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing, the true 
purpose of his payment, as well as how he came to know about the investment 
opportunity. Ive read the chat messages between Mr R and L  which is how he 
says they communicated with each other. I cant see that hed been given a reason to 
think he had to hide this information from his bank. Neither had he been coached to 
tell them something different. 
While its true that Mr R seemed hesitant in investing more money but subsequently 
went ahead, I dont think this means that he was so under the spell that he wouldnt 
have paid attention to a warning from his trusted bank after it asked him sufficiently 
probing questions. After all, the situation Mr R had found himself in had the hallmarks 
of a typical scam.  
At the time of the payment, there wasnt adverse information about the trading 
platform Mr R was using. So, Monzo couldnt have known that it was involved in a 
scam. I accept that it had no duty to protect Mr R from a poor investment choice or 
give investment advice. But Monzo could have provided information about the steps 
a customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person or firm  such as checking that the firm was authorised by 
the FCA or a regulator in another jurisdiction. 
Monzo could have also drawn on its own knowledge and information that was in the 
public domain  mentioned above  about the high risk associated with crypto trading 
and the potential for fraud. In other words, it could have provided Mr R with a 
potential scam warning.
Had Monzo done more, I think it is more likely than not that Mr R would have looked 
further into the investment opportunity in general, including whether the trading 
platform L had recommended was regulated here in the UK or abroad. He could have 
discovered that it wasnt. Indeed, it is likely that Mr R would have come across the 
various scam warnings involving crypto exchanges as well as romance and 
investment scams.
Im persuaded that a meaningful intervention from Monzo would likely have exposed 
the scam. And I think it is more likely than not that the intervention would have 
caused Mr R to stop from going ahead with the £5,000 payment to Binance on 
26 November 2020 as well as the subsequent payments, thereby preventing further 
losses. I therefore intend to hold Monzo liable for Mr Rs losses from that point.
I note that the investigator said in their view that Mr R had borrowed money from 
friends and family to fund the payments. In response to the view, Mr R said that he 
only mentioned this in his subsequent messages to L to continue engaging with them 
in the hope that it would buy time for the police to trace them. I find Mr Rs 
explanation plausible, and it ties up with his account activity; I cant see that he 
received credits from other sources to fund the disputed payments.
Contributory negligence
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mr R is partly to blame for what happened. 
And having done so, I think that he is. Mr R doesnt appear to have carried out any 
independent research into the investment, the trading platform, or the investment 
type to reassure himself that the opportunity as presented to him in October 2020 
was genuine. 
I think Mr R ought to bear some responsibility for his losses and that compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. Having thought about this carefully, I intend to 
conclude that it would be fair to reduce compensation by 20%.
 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties.
Mr R didnt provide any further comments for me to consider and said he believed the 
decision was fair.
Monzo said it didnt agree that the outcome was fair. In summary, it has said 
Monzo has robust transaction monitoring systems, created by experts in the field, 
which comply with all of its regulations [sic]. It says it respectfully doesnt believe that 
our service is qualified to determine what makes a payment unusual for a customer, 
and says it is being held to a standard by a service which isnt an expert in the field of 
transaction monitoring.
Although the first transaction on 26 November 2020 was larger than most payments 
from Mr Rs account, it isnt significant in the wider scheme of payments Monzo sees on a regular basis. Therefore, this payment wasnt flagged. To suggest that this 
payment should have been stopped is to suggest that its transaction monitoring 
systems should have also flagged thousands of other legitimate transactions, which 
isnt logistically possible.
Mr R had full control of his money when it went to the crypto wallets in his own name. 
It was the onward payments that were the scam payments, and these were beyond 
Monzos control.
Theres no evidence that any contact with Mr R would have impacted his decision 
making, only speculations and assumptions.
Mr R had no reasonable basis of belief in this scam and didnt conduct any due 
diligence. 
Monzo disagrees that it should be held responsible for any of the losses. But if it is 
held liable, Monzo argues that shared liability is most often at 50%. It feels that 
sharing 80% of the responsibility is far too high a percentage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their responses. Ive carefully considered Monzos comments and 
respond as follows.
Monzo is aware of our general approach to its safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers. As well as decisions being published on our website setting out these 
principles and which quote the relevant rules and regulations, Monzo itself has also had a 
number of decisions setting out our position. 
We are required, and as provided for in the DISP Rules, to take into account rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to be good industry practice, as 
well as the law, when reaching a decision. And were tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
I fully acknowledge that Monzo has employed the services of experts in creating its 
transaction monitoring systems and Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I still 
consider that the payment in question should have triggered an alert on the banks systems. 
Not just because the amount was significantly higher than any previous spending activity on 
Mr Rs account  a fact Monzo has acknowledged in its response.
At the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known 
even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with crypto trading, 
including many warnings of potential fraud. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the 
FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. And in 
May 2019, Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the past 
year. Regulated businesses ought reasonably to take notice of such insight. By the time 
Mr R made these payments, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and it is 
reasonable to conclude that banks, such as Monzo, had also had time to digest these 
warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud.Monzo has argued that Mr R had full control of the money he sent to the crypto wallets in his 
name. But Ive already explained why, even if an intervention by the bank would have 
identified that the payment was going to the consumers own account with a crypto 
exchange, the conversation shouldnt have stopped only on the basis that the money 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within the consumers control. I think Mr Rs 
losses were foreseeable to Monzo, despite the payment on the face of it not leaving his 
control. And Im satisfied that, had the bank, having identified the payment as unusual and 
suspicious, asked relevant questions of Mr R, it would have been apparent that he was 
falling victim to a cryptocurrency scam. In other words, but for Monzos failure to make 
further enquiries, it would have been on actual notice that Mr R was going to suffer financial 
harm from fraud.
On the point of evidence, speculations, and assumptions, we decide cases on the balance of 
probabilities, i.e., whats more likely than not. In my provisional decision, I explained why I 
considered it more likely than not that Mr R would have stopped in his tracks and not 
proceeded with the payment in question (and subsequent payments) if Monzo had properly 
questioned him and given a scam warning before processing the payment. Monzos 
comments havent changed my position on what I consider to be more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Ive also thought about Monzos comments about shared liability. Its mentioned reasonable 
basis for belief in justifying a 50% deduction. But the disputed transactions were debit card 
payments. The Contingent Reimbursement Mode (the CRM Code), where the concept of 
reasonable basis for belief is a consideration, doesnt apply to card payments. So, its not 
relevant here. Ive already explained why I find that it would be fair and reasonable to reduce 
compensation by 20%. Given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties, I still 
consider 20% deduction to be fair.
All in all, having considered Monzos response to my provisional decision, my outcome 
remains unchanged.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Monzo Bank Ltd needs to reimburse Mr R all the disputed payments 
from 26 November 2020 onwards (five debit card transactions), making a 20% deduction for 
contributory negligence. 
As the payments came from a current account, I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Monzo to also add simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman