DRN-3967309
The complaint
In summary, Mrs S complains about the advice provided to her by Warde Graham 
Consulting Limited (WG).  She believes the advice to take her late husbands pension as a 
lump sum was unsuitable. She thinks the advice has resulted in her losing the favourable tax 
status it would have had if it had been left in a pension, and that she has lost income.  
What happened
In 2016 WG wrote to the late Mr S with advice in respect of estate planning. In June 2017 
the late Mr S passed away. He was survived by Mrs S and his daughter from his previous 
marriage, (referred to as E).
Prior to his death, meetings had been held with WG about putting the late Mr S pensions 
into a trust. The reason for doing so was to ensure that Mrs S received an income for life. 
Any residual funds were intended to pass to E on the death of Mrs S. Trust arrangements 
werent in place prior to the late Mr S death, and the executors of the late Mr S estate made 
a different complaint about that, which Im not considering here. 
Because no nominations had been made in respect of the late Mr S pensions, one of the 
providers (who I will refer to as H) paid out the proceeds from the pension as a cash lump 
sum. The other pension provider (who I will refer to as B), decided that Mrs S was the 
beneficiary entitled to receive the proceeds of the late Mr S SIPP. She was given some 
options as to how she could take the money held in the SIPP. 
Mrs S and the executors sought the advice of WG as to what to do with the SIPP monies. In 
November 2018, WG said that B had confirmed the proceeds from the SIPP couldnt be paid 
directly into a trust, as no trust had been nominated in the late Mr S lifetime. The death 
benefits would be paid at Bs discretion. 
On 5 December 2018 B wrote and explained that the SIPP funds would be paid to Mrs S. It 
set out the options open to her.
On 7 December 2018 at 12.42  Mrs S sent an e-mail to the solicitor administering the 
estate and WGs adviser. Regarding the SIPP she said the late Mr S wish was that it went 
into a trust for her and E. She said she thought it best to leave the SIPP as it is was for the 
moment and monitor it, with WG, Mrs S and the executor meeting to decide which of the four 
options would be best for the trust fund. 
WGs adviser responded at 12.47 the same day and said: 
I would agree that (The late Mr S) wishes were for the pension pot to go into a trust as 
previously discussed, this along with the various other assets could be managed very 
effectively to produce a lifetime income for (Mrs S) at approximately 5% of the value and the 
remaining funds passed onto E later.
In February 2019, Mrs S wrote to B and said that she would take the proceeds from the 
SIPP as a cash lump sum.
On 13 February 2019 B wrote in response and said:
You have provided us with your bank payment details to make the payment to your bank 
account, however we discussed the option of you taking out a dependants drawdown plan. I 
can confirm that we can transfer the benefits to a dependants plan set up in your name, 
where you can take payments from this whenever you like, for any amount. You would be 
able to take a lump sum from this to pay to your husbands daughter and continue to take a 
regular monthly income. These payments would be tax free, if we are able to settle the claim 
by 26 June 2019. 
If you choose the drawdown option, you can complete a nomination form, so that when you 
die, any remaining monies can be passed onto your named beneficiaries.
I mentioned that the monies in your husbands plan were still invested in funds, and these 
would need to be sold in order for us to proceed with whichever decision you reach. We will 
not disinvest these monies until we are advised to do so, or until you have decided which 
option you would like to proceed with. (WGs adviser), I have copied you into this email as 
per Mrs S wishes as she would like to discuss the options more before a final decision is 
made.
On 13 February 2019  Mrs S wrote to B having discussed options with WG and the 
executors, and decided to cash in the SIPP and transfer it to her bank account.
On 28 February 2019, B confirmed the death benefits (£312,425.70) had been paid into 
Mrs S bank account. 
On 15 March 2019 WG sent Mrs S its report advising her to invest the proceeds from the 
SIPP into a wealth preservation plan to provide income for Mrs S for life, with E as the 
beneficiary on the death of Mrs S. A gift inter vivos policy was recommended to cover the 
Inheritance tax (IHT) liability for 7 years. WG said Mrs S could have changed the 
beneficiaries and the late Mr S wishes couldnt be fulfilled by keeping the funds in the 
pension with B. It went on to say that B may have made the decision when paying the funds 
on her death that they should be paid to her own children who were the beneficiaries of her 
will. 
On 24 May 2019, Mrs S wrote to WGs adviser and explained she had spoken to a solicitor 
who said there was no need to use a trust for the SIPP money or the other estate monies. 
She also said her solicitor had said it was unlikely she would have an IHT liability. So, she 
didnt want to go ahead with the insurance policy medical.
Mrs S complained about the advice she had been given. WG responded to the complaint. In 
summary, it said:
Mrs S objectives had been to ensure the wishes of her late husband set out in his 
will were carried out. He didnt nominate a beneficiary under his plan with B. 
He wanted the pension invested to provide an income for Mrs S with the capital 
passing on her death to E. 
The pensions were encashed. The recommendation was then to set up a trust and 
invest the proceeds from the SIPP. 
The argument was that if Mrs S had kept the funds in the pension with B and taken 
the income, she could have changed the beneficiaries at any time. Leaving the 
possibility that E wouldnt inherit the pension funds as per the late Mr S wishes. 
Mrs S changed to a new financial adviser shortly after receiving the recommendation report in March 2019. It didnt think it could be held responsible for the non-
investment of the funds taken from the SIPP. 
The late Mr S wanted E to inherit the remainder of his estate once Mrs S passed 
away. It said that if Mrs S had kept the funds in the SIPP and taken an income, she 
could have changed the beneficiaries at any time, therefore leaving the possibility 
that E would not inherit the pension funds on Mrs S death.
WGs adviser told Mrs S to take the tax-free lump sum pension benefit from the 
SIPP, as it was needed to fulfil the late Mr S wishes. 
An email in the information provided by this service showed that executors confirmed 
the lump sum option should be taken as the late Mr S wishes were that the proceeds 
from the policy be lodged in a trust.
By keeping the funds in the pension, the late Mr S wishes could not be fulfilled. 
Mrs S would have been able to change the beneficiaries to remove E. In addition, B 
may have made the decision when paying out the funds on Mrs S death that the 
funds should be paid to Mrs S children as they are the main beneficiaries of her will.
It did not believe it was appropriate to reinstate the funds into the pension plan, if this 
could be done for the reasons provided above.
In July 2022, our investigator wrote to Mrs S explaining why he wasnt upholding the 
complaint. Mrs S representative didnt agree. They explained why they thought the 
investigators response was wrong and set out again their concerns regarding the advice 
provided by WG.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to review. I asked the 
investigator to request the full business file from WG. And I asked him to ask Mrs S what had 
happened to the cash from the SIPP. WG provided its file and Mrs S explained that the 
monies from the SIPP had been invested in a Wrap account. And that she was taking 
income from that. The arrangement had been set up in August 2019 after she had taken 
advice from another financial adviser.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 January 2023, explaining why I was intending to uphold 
Mrs S complaint. Her representative responded on her behalf. In summary they said:
They thought Mrs S was entitled to inflation increases so an increasing annuity would 
be more appropriate. 
Mrs S had lost the ability to pass the pension pot down the generations outside of the 
estate and their estates thereafter. Having the pension pots out of trust meant her 
estate was worth more than it would have been from an IHT point of view which 
would prove costly.
It agreed with the arguments regarding investment growth. 
Regardless of whether the investments were held in a bond or a general investment 
account (GIA), Mrs S was having to pay tax on investment growth that reduced the 
value of funds to her over time. So, they argued that Mrs S should be getting 
compensation for any investments made outside of the pension wrapper, that would 
now be taxable. 
The representative thought that £500 was a paltry amount to pay for the time and 
effort Mrs S had spent on the complaint. The situation would continue to cost her, 
and they felt £5,000 would be fairer compensation. 
WG also replied. In summary it said:
It appreciated other options were open to Mrs S, but didnt think enough 
consideration had been given as to why those options had been discounted. 
If treating the advice given to Mrs S in isolation, it could be persuaded by the alternative suggested. But this was a continuation of the late Mr S wishes and the 
option I had proposed failed in its opinion, to satisfactorily take this into account. 
At the time of the advice the estate was being dealt with by Mrs S solicitor and the 
executor was her brother in law. So, Mrs S wasnt alone in making any decisions and 
all parties had the interests of Mrs S, the late Mr S and E to consider. 
The objectives at that time were to provide Mrs S with an income but to ensure E 
would receive any residual funds on Mrs S death. The advice provided met these 
objectives and the alternatives were discounted because they might not fully meet 
those objectives.
If the flexible drawdown arrangement had been selected, this would rely on a 
beneficiary being named. If no beneficiary was named, the same situation would be 
repeated with the provider making a decision and this would likely cut E out. If E was 
named as the beneficiary, there was nothing to stop Mrs S changing this at a later 
date. To rely on the fact that Mrs S would comply with these wishes several years 
later were by no means guaranteed (and naive). And at the time of the advice WG 
was seeking to secure the wishes of both Mrs S and the late Mr S. Taking the cash 
sum and placing it in trust achieved these whilst leaving it in the SIPP would not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I remain of 
the opinion that Mrs S complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The executors of the late Mr S estate have made a separate complaint on behalf of the 
estate, about the administration and service provided by WG in relation to the late Mr S 
pensions before his death. For the avoidance of any doubt I am only considering the advice 
provided to Mrs S in respect of the late Mr S SIPP, and the proposed investment of the 
surrender proceeds from that pension.
On 26 November 2018, WG wrote to Mrs S. It explained that no nomination had been 
completed in relation to the SIPP. And it also said that B had confirmed that the SIPP 
monies couldnt be paid into a trust as a trust wasnt nominated during the late Mr S lifetime. 
The e-mail concluded by saying: 
My guess is that B will pay a lump sum to you but its up to them.
B exercised its discretion to decide who the pension benefits should be paid to. In December 
2018 it said they would be paid to Mrs S. She was provided with four options as to how she 
could receive the pension benefits. 
These were:
A one-off lump sum cash payment.
A guaranteed income for life (annuity)
Flexible income drawdown
Transfer the benefits from the pension to another provider to purchase an annuity or 
drawdown plan.
In its response to Mrs S complaint, WG accepts that its representative told her to take the 
tax-free lump sum from the late Mr S SIPP. And this is confirmed by the e-mail from WGs adviser on 7 December 2018, where he advised Mrs S to take option 1 from the options 
offered by B. The first option was to take the death benefit as a lump sum payment. 
Prior to the decision to take the SIPP as a cash lump-sum, there were discussions between 
Mrs S, the executors of the late Mr S estate and WG as the most appropriate way for the 
funds to be taken. The objectives were to utilise the pension funds and other assets, to 
provide Mrs S with an income for life and for the residuary estate (plus what was left in the 
SIPP) to be passed to E on Mrs S death. And the discussions revolved around the monies 
from the late Mr S estate being held in some form of trust. 
In relation to the SIPP, Mrs S sought the advice of WG as to which was the most appropriate 
option for her to take. And its opinion was that the only way the late Mr S wishes could be 
achieved, was through a lump-sum payment being taken from the SIPP. This was because if 
the funds had remained in a pension, Mrs S could have changed the beneficiaries. And it 
has repeated those arguments in its response to my provisional decision. 
Notwithstanding the arguments WG has made, I have concerns about the advice provided 
by WG in relation to the SIPP. I say this because it seems to me the benefits of the flexible 
income drawdown option, were too readily discounted. And the advice from WG appears to 
have been predicated on the basis that the late Mr S wishes as set out in his will, could only 
safely be achieved by the pension monies being taken as a cash lump sum; and invested 
within some form of trust. 
But this advice appears to me to be at odds with the estate planning advice provided to the 
late Mr S by WG back in 2016. In terms of options the report said:
The simplest and most common way of passing on death benefits is to nominate
beneficiaries. In this instance, upon death prior to age 75 the monies would be paid
to the beneficiary free of tax whether it is:
- Taken as a lump sum
- Accessed via drawdown
- Paid to a dependent or not
The nominated person can take benefits as they choose, either as a lump sum or
regular/flexible income. All withdrawals would be free of tax.
This enables the nominated beneficiary to pass on any unused drawdown funds on
their death to their own nominated beneficiaries. The same tax treatment applies,
and is based on the relevant age of the beneficiary, rather than the original member.
The benefit of this option is that it offers the potential to pass pension funds down
through generations without it ever falling into anyones estate for IHT purposes.
In addition, the funds can remain in a tax advantaged environment and have the
potential to provide a tax-free income where the member or beneficiary dies before
age 75.
Other options were set out including setting up a bypass trust to receive the pension death 
benefits and completing an expression of wish. The tax implications of a bypass trust to 
receive the pension death benefits were also summarised. 
It seems to me that the position Mrs S found herself in after B had nominated her to receive 
the pension benefits in 2018, was the same as the late Mr S when estate planning advice was provided to him in 2016. Both had the opportunity to nominate beneficiaries for their 
pension benefits in the event of their deaths. 
B had told Mrs S that as well as taking benefits from the SIPP as a cash lump sum, she also 
had the option to take an income from the capital by way of flexible drawdown. And as set 
out by WG in 2016, there were clear advantages in her doing so. In my opinion these were:
The capital could continue to be invested within the tax advantageous environment 
provided by a pension wrapper.
All withdrawals would be tax free.
Mrs S could have nominated a beneficiary or beneficiaries to pass on any unused 
funds to, in the event of her death.  
As the benefits of a flexible drawdown arrangement had been considered an appropriate 
option prior to the late Mr S death, its not clear to me why it wasnt considered an 
appropriate option by WG when it was advising Mrs S. The rationale given by WG and 
repeated in its response to my provisional decision, is that if Mrs S had kept the funds in a 
drawdown arrangement and taken the income, she could have changed the beneficiaries at 
any time. This left the possibility that E wouldnt inherit the pension funds as per his wishes. 
I dont find that to be a persuasive argument. I say this because Ive not seen any evidence 
that indicates Mrs S had any intention of not providing for E in respect of the pension 
proceeds. And she was now WGs customer, not her late husband. WG should not in my 
opinion have prioritised something that her late husband had not enacted in his lifetime, over 
what was the suitable advice for her circumstances, bearing in mind the tax efficiency of 
ongoing investment, cost, and preserving an ability for Mrs S to still express a wish for who 
the death benefits should go to, that was in line with the late Mr S wishes.
The evidence Ive seen indicates that Mrs S was keen to ensure that the terms of her late 
husbands will were met. The late Mr S will also set out that his estate should be used to 
provide an income for Mrs S for life. But as explained by B, the pension didnt form part of 
the late Mr S estate and wasnt subject to inheritance tax. And the advice provided by WG to 
take a cash lump sum meant that there would be tax implications for Mrs S in generating an 
income for herself moving forward.  
I think provision for E could easily have been made by Mrs S nominating her as a beneficiary 
in any flexible drawdown plan that she took out. And having made that nomination, I think its 
highly unlikely that B or any other provider would have ignored that nomination. And the 
rationale for nominating E rather than one in favour of Mrs S own children, could easily have 
been explained to a pension provider, in a letter from Mrs S explaining her reasoning; and by 
providing a copy of the late Mr S will. And Ive not seen any evidence that suggests Mrs S 
wouldnt have made such arrangements if they had been suggested to her. 
Mrs S has told our service that she has made a codicil to her will to provide for E. And taking 
into account the correspondence Ive seen that shows her concern to ensure E was provided 
for in line with the late Mr S wishes, I think its more likely than not that she would have 
agreed to make such an amendment if this had been suggested to her.
Advice was subsequently provided by WG in March 2019 as to how to reinvest the proceeds 
from the SIPP, which were paid directly to Mrs S in February 2019. And the recommendation 
whilst it was designed to provide Mrs S with a regular income, meant that there was a 
potential IHT liability in the first seven years after the plan was set up. The recommendation 
also meant there would be an additional cost for setting up the inter vivos insurance to cover 
this liability. The recommendation also explained that income would be generated by withdrawals of up 
to 5% of the initial funds invested every year. This would generate an income for the first 20 
years. The withdrawals would equate to an income of £14,871.29 a year. And to achieve the 
£15,000 gross withdrawal a year that Mrs S needed, WG calculated there would be tax 
payable of £25.74 a year on £128.71 at a rate of 20%. 
Taking into account what Ive said above, I dont think the advice to take the cash lump sum 
and invest it in a bond was suitable, as Mrs S objectives could have been met in a more tax 
efficient way through the flexible drawdown plan. This is because as the late Mr S died 
before the age of 75, a flexible drawdown meant that income could be taken from it utilising 
the proceeds from the SIPP, without Mrs S having to pay any income tax. And the flexible 
drawdown plan would have benefitted from the beneficial pension tax environment. 
Mrs S has submitted that as a result of the advice provided by WG she has lost out on two 
years of capital growth, which she holds WG responsible for. In May 2019, Mrs S contacted 
WG and explained that having taken advice, she had decided not to go ahead with the 
recommendations and that she needed to appoint a financial adviser nearer to home. She 
has said that an investment plan was set up in August 2019 to provide her with an income. 
Although Mrs S thinks she has lost out on capital growth from when her late husband passed 
away until the time the new investment plan was set up in August 2019, I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to persuade me that any delays were primarily down to WG. The 
evidence Ive seen indicates there were discussions from the late Mr S death in June 2017 
between Mrs S, the other executors of the late Mr S will and the solicitors administering the 
late Mr S estate, as to an appropriate course of action in respect of the SIPP. The relevant 
information to enable B to make a decision on who the SIPP monies should be paid to, 
wasnt provided to B until late 2018. 
I can also see that B informed Mrs S that the funds in the late Mr S SIPP were still invested 
before her instruction to take the cash lump sum. So, notwithstanding the arguments made 
on behalf of Mrs S by her representative, I dont have sufficient evidence that persuades me 
that WG were responsible for any investment losses or delays up until the death benefits 
were paid to Mrs S.
I do believe that the advice provided to Mrs S by WG has caused her other financial losses. 
Her SIPP monies no longer have the benefit of a tax advantageous environment that a 
pension wrapper could provide. And she will now have to pay tax on income that she draws 
from her investments above 5% a year, assuming it is invested in a bond. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs S representative has argued that she is entitled 
to inflation increases, and they have set out figures they think should be taken into account 
in the methodology I set out for calculating compensation in the provisional decision. Its not 
clear to me on what basis the representative thinks Mrs S is entitled to inflation increases on 
income she now takes. 
An escalating income is something that can be desirable with an income stream. But if it is 
generated by way of an annuity from a capital sum, those increases will often come at the 
cost of a lower starting income; than might otherwise be generated from an annuity that 
doesnt increase in payment. One of the advantages of taking an income from a flexible 
drawdown arrangement is that any monies taken would be tax free. If an annuity was used 
to generate an income from the proceeds of the SIPP, then those payments to Mrs S would 
be subject to income tax. So, I think its unlikely given the advantages of the flexible 
drawdown that Ive already summarised, and taking into account that the representative has 
argued it should have been recommended to Mrs S, together with the objective to provide E with capital on Mrs S death; that Mrs S would have chosen the annuity option if it had been 
presented to her.
If Mrs S had wanted to take an increasing income from a flexible drawdown arrangement, 
Im not persuaded that this would necessarily be a viable option for her. I say this because 
an increasing income taken from the proceeds of the SIPP by way of a flexible drawdown 
arrangement, could run the risk that the capital would be eroded over time. In the short term 
that might not be such a problem for Mrs S, but again given her objective of also ensuring 
there was capital from the pension available to E on her death, I dont think she would on 
balance, have taken that route; or that it would be appropriate for her to do so. Also, Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence that Mrs S has taken an increasing income from the proceeds of the 
monies that came from the SIPP, or that she needed an increasing income. Without 
evidence to support this argument, its difficult for me to safely conclude that an increasing 
income was something she needed or has implemented. 
It also seems to me from the information I have been provided with, that Mrs S had other 
assets outside of the proceeds she received from the SIPP, such as the proceeds from the 
late Mr S pension with H. And those assets could be used to generate any additional 
income that she might need on an ongoing basis. So, for these reasons, Im not persuaded 
that an increasing annuity is appropriate to use in the redress methodology that I proposed 
in my provisional decision; or that the income figures provided by the representative are 
appropriate. 
The representative has also argued that Mrs S is having to pay tax on investment growth 
regardless of whether the investments are held in a bond or a GIA. In my provisional 
decision I acknowledged that the proceeds from the SIPP are now in a less beneficial 
investment environment. And Ive made an allowance for that and explained my thinking at 
step two of the redress methodology that I set out in my provisional decision. Nothing that 
the representative has said persuades me that what I proposed, isnt still an appropriate way 
of making an allowance for the tax advantages that could have been had if the monies had 
remained in a pension environment.
The representative has also said that the proposed award of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mrs S wasnt sufficient. They have suggested that an award of 
£5,000 would be more appropriate. Ive acknowledged that Mrs S has suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the unsuitable advice provided to her by WG. But the figure 
suggested by the representative suggests to me that they are looking for me to make a 
punitive award against WG. But the rules under which I operate simply dont allow me to 
make such an award, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to do so. 
Deciding on the amount an award for distress and inconvenience should be, isnt an exact 
science. And I need to consider the impact on Mrs S of the unsuitable advice provided by 
WG. Ive explained that I dont have sufficient evidence that persuades me that WG were 
responsible for any investment losses or delays up until the death benefits were paid to 
Mrs S. And Ive taken that into account in assessing what is an appropriate compensation 
figure for the distress and inconvenience Mrs S has been caused. 
Im satisfied that the unsuitable advice provided by WG has had a significant impact on 
Mrs S. She has had the stress and worry of having to invest the proceeds from the SIPP and 
thinking she needed to set up a trust when that wasnt necessary and has had to seek 
alternative investment advice. And Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that this has 
caused her distress and inconvenience. 
So, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that the methodology I proposed in my 
provisional decision remains appropriate to compensate Mrs S for her losses.  Although WG recommended an inter vivos policy to cover any IHT liability, Mrs S 
representative has said that advice provided to her by another solicitor confirmed she 
doesnt have an IHT issue. And taking into account that Mrs S would have inherited the late 
Mr S IHT nil rate bands in respect of property and his own personal allowance in conjunction 
with her own IHT allowances, I think its plausible based on the information that I have that 
she hasnt incurred an IHT liability as a result of the unsuitable advice provided by WG. 
Mrs S representative has suggested that any future beneficiaries would be impacted by the 
position Mrs S is now in. But my focus is on her complaint and losses, not the situation of 
any potential beneficiaries in the future. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I remain of the 
opinion that the compensation I proposed in my provisional decision remains an appropriate 
way to compensate Mrs S for her losses resulting from WGs unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
Its not possible for the pension funds to be reinstated into a pension environment as Mrs S 
and her representative would like to happen. So, WG will need to as far as is practicably 
possible, compensate Mrs S for the less advantageous tax environment the capital from the 
SIPP will now be invested in, and also take into account that some of her income will be 
subject to income tax. Mrs S requires an income of £20,000 a year. That could have been 
taken without payment of any tax from a pension drawdown plan. A proportion of her income 
is now subject to income tax because of the unsuitable advice provided to her by WG. And 
the methodology I have set out below takes account of that. 
As a result of the unsuitable advice provided by WG, Mrs S took the proceeds from the SIPP 
as a cash lump sum. And because of WGs unsuitable advice, it wasnt invested for a period 
of time. If Mrs S had been provided with suitable advice the SIPP wouldnt have been taken 
as a cash lump sum and should have remained invested within the SIPP. So, Mrs S has 
potentially lost out on investment growth because of WGs unsuitable advice.
In her e-mail to WG of 24 May 2019, Mrs S explained that she had been in discussions with 
her solicitor and was advised that she didnt need a trust arrangement. And she explained 
that as a result, she wasnt going to go ahead with WGs recommendation and needed to 
appoint an IFA nearer to her home. She has also told our service that a new investment plan 
to provide her with income was set up in August 2019. 
I dont think it is unreasonable that after the unsuitable recommendation was made by WG, 
Mrs S lost confidence in it and needed to seek alternative advice. It may therefore have 
taken a few months for Mrs S to identify that the advice from WG was unsuitable. And it 
seems from what she has said, that at the time she wrote to WG in May 2019, she had 
started to explore alternative investment advice. But it wasnt until August 2019 that the new 
investment had been set up. And considering that the original advice had been provided in 
March 2019, I think the point at which Mrs S contacted WG on 24 May 2019 is an 
appropriate point from when she could have mitigated her position. So, I think that is the 
point at which WGs liability for any investment losses resulting from the SIPP funds being 
disinvested should end.
1) I think a fair and reasonable method to quantify any investment loss resulting from 
the SIPP funds being disinvested and taken as a cash lump sum, is for WG to obtain 
the value of the SIPP from B as at 24 May 2019, on the basis that it had remained 
invested in the same funds it had been invested in, up to the date the death benefits 
were paid to Mrs S in February 2019. If that figure is greater than the death benefits 
paid to Mrs S, then the amount of the investment gain should be paid to Mrs S as a cash lump sum. No deduction for income tax should be made as this sum could have 
been taken by Mrs S tax free. 
2) I think a fair and reasonable method to quantify any investment loss resulting from 
the SIPP funds now being in the less beneficial investment environment Mrs S now 
finds herself in, is to compare the rates of growth prescribed by the regulator for 
pension and non-pension product illustrations. Growth rates are slightly higher for 
pension illustrations because they enjoy tax advantages on the invested funds. The 
difference in the assumed growth rates for non-pension investment illustrations is 
0.5% a year less than for pension illustrations. So, the annual difference in 
investment growth of 0.5% on the capital sum taken from the SIPP surrender 
proceeds of £312,425.70, equates to £1,562. 
3) Mrs S would have been able to draw income and capital from a pension drawdown 
plan without having to pay income tax. She now finds herself in a position where 
some of her income will be taxed. I think Mrs S should mitigate her income tax 
position as far as possible. And taking into account the amount of capital she would 
have to invest from the surrender proceeds for the SIPP; this could have been 
achieved by utilizing an investment bond and drawing income from it. 5% a year 
could be withdrawn from a bond, which would be deemed as a return of capital and 
incur no income tax charge. Mrs S has said that her income needs were £20,000 a 
year. And one of her concerns was that WGs recommendation didnt meet her 
income requirements. So, she would require additional income of £4,400 over and 
above the 5% withdrawal (equivalent to £15,600 a year) that she could withdraw 
without paying income tax.  
4) Taking into account the information I have about Mrs S financial circumstances, Im 
satisfied that she is, and is likely to continue to be, a basic rate taxpayer. The 
additional £4,400 income would be subject to income tax at a rate of 20%. So, Mrs S 
would incur an income tax charge of £880 a year.
5) In order to capitalize the annual losses calculated in steps (2) and (4), WG should 
pay Mrs S a lump sum equivalent to the cost of buying her a purchased life annuity 
for an income of £2,442 a year. The annuity should be on a single life level basis.
6) In addition to the compensation Ive set out above, I think WG also needs to pay Mrs 
S £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her as a result of its unsuitable 
advice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint about 
Warde Graham Consulting Limited. If Mrs S accepts my decision, it needs to compensate 
her by doing what Ive set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman