DRN-3943907
The complaint
Miss B complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIL) handling of her car insurance 
claim.  
UKIL are the insurers of Miss Bs policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of an 
agent. As UKIL have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the agent, any 
reference to UKIL includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
Miss Bs car wouldnt start and was showing a warning light saying the key couldnt be 
detected, so she called UKIL, and they sent an agent who also couldnt get the car started. A 
recovery truck was then called but Miss Bs car needed manoeuvring to get it on the truck. 
Miss B says her car has an electric handbrake which means it cant be disengaged unless 
the car is started. She says, despite this the recovery driver repeatedly yanked the 
handbrake. Miss B says another warning light then appeared saying there was a parking 
break fault. 
Miss Bs car was then towed home but during the journey Miss B was told by the driver she 
needed to pay £96. Miss B called UKIL to query this but found the call handler to be rude, so 
she terminated the call. Miss B then tried a different number which was constantly engaged 
but then managed to get through on a separate number and pay the £96. Miss B says, when 
she got home, she tried her spare fob and her car started but the parking break fault was still 
showing. Miss B then took her car to a garage and was told the parking break fault would 
cost £606 to repair  which she paid. Miss B then complained to UKIL. 
UKIL responded and explained their technician had considered the issue with the parking 
break and found this was down to wear and tear and not down to any damage caused by the 
recovery driver. They also explained the policy terms and conditions set out why the £96 
was payable. They upheld Miss Bs complaint about how the call handler spoke with her and 
sent a cheque for £100.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He thought UKIL are responsible for the 
damage caused to the parking brake and recommended they cover the repair costs together 
with 8% simple interest. Miss B agreed but UKIL disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Miss B. My role requires me to say how a 
complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about 
the service areas of the complaint arent in dispute. UKIL have admitted they got things 
wrong in their handling of Miss Bs call and have paid £100  and I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Miss B explains the only dispute she has relates to UKILs 
refusal to cover the cost of repairs for the parking brake. So, thats what my decision will 
focus on. 
I can see UKIL say they have no way of proving if the electronic parking brake (EPB) was 
working before recovery as Miss Bs car wouldnt start to allow them to operate the EPB. But 
they also say Miss B has no way of proving the EPB was working before the recovery. So, 
Ive thought carefully about this, and Ive taken into account the information I do have as well 
as the comments from the parties. Ive then made a judgement call based on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I believe is more likely the case than not. 
I can see UKIL, in dealing with this complaint, referred the matter to their technician who in 
turn contacted the garage who repaired the EPB. The technicians notes say the repairing 
garage explained there was no visible damage on the switch and they found an electronic 
fault with the switch which was causing the EPB to not work. The notes say Basically a fault 
with the electronic circuit inside the EPB switch. The technician says they wouldve 
expected the recovery driver to try and operate the EPB before attempting to recover the car 
with the handbrake locked on. The technician says the most probable cause of the EPB 
switch failing is likely down to wear and tear due to the cars age and mileage. 
I can see Miss B also contacted the repairing garage for their thoughts on the damage and 
she has provided us with a copy of their response. They confirm there was a fault code in 
the parking brake module which required a replacement switch to fix the issue. They refer to 
Miss B mentioning the recovery driver was yanking the handbrake quite hard and say this 
in my opinion could quite easily of [sic] caused the issue if excessive force was used as the 
problem was not present before I can only surmise this is the case 
Given that the repairing garage diagnosed the problem and then carried out the necessary 
repairs, I would attach more weight to their opinion and be persuaded by what they felt was 
the cause of the issue. And, in the circumstances of this case, Im persuaded the damage 
was caused by the recovery driver. I say this because, in their discussion with UKILs 
technician, they describe the damage they found  and this being an electronic fault. Its 
UKILs technician who then feels this damage is linked to wear and tear  not the repairing 
garage. I will add, I have taken into consideration why the technician believes a fault with the 
electronic circuit inside the EPB switch is unlikely to have been caused by the recovery 
driver trying to operate the EPB. But, in the information provided by Miss B, the repairing 
garage is asked for their opinion on a very specific scenario  and the one which Miss B 
says occurred. And, the repairing garage  knowing the exact nature of the fault with the 
electronic circuit  say a recovery driver could quite easily have caused the issue. 
So, the repairing garage havent cast any doubt on heavy yanking of a handbrake being a 
likely and probable cause of damage to an EPB  in fact they say it can be done quite easily. 
And, I havent seen any evidence the repairing garage believe wear and tear was the cause 
of the issue  and I believe they would be best placed in these circumstances to make that 
link if they felt that was the case. 
Im further persuaded there wasnt an issue with the EPB before the recovery drivers actions 
because the information provided by UKIL shows they contacted the garage who first 
attended to Miss Bs car and theyve asked for their account of the event. The garage explain their job notes show they initially attended due to a key fault. They say they could 
also see at this point the handbrake was stuck on, as was the steering lock. They explain 
they didnt cause any damage and this fault was the reason as to why we attended to this 
vehicle in the first instance. Ive seen the job sheet, and this notes the fault found was Key 
 Electronic Card and says the technician wasnt able to repair the fault and recovery was 
required. Miss B has provided a photo showing the fault sign which appeared on her 
dashboard following the recovery drivers actions. Its a warning notice about the EPB and I 
believe, if this fault was showing when the first technician arrived, its reasonable to expect 
they wouldve identified this and noted it on the job sheet. 
I note UKIL say the repairing garage explained there was no visible damage to the switch  it 
wasnt snapped or cracked. They say excessive force wouldve led to damage to the switch. 
They also say they doubt a professional recovery driver would apply excess force. And, 
given they recover cars everyday with EPB issues, they will know how much force to apply 
to operate an EPB switch. Ive taken UKILs comments into consideration but I have to 
decide what I find to be more persuasive. Ive already mentioned that I find the repairing 
garages opinion to be most persuasive in the circumstances of this case and, even though 
they were aware the switch wasnt damaged, they still didnt, in their response to Miss B, rule 
out the possibility that the recovery driver could be at fault. I do acknowledge UKILs points 
about recovery drivers knowing about EPB switches, but these are more general statements 
and they dont prove that the recovery driver in this specific case didnt use excessive force.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that the damage to the EPB was caused by UKILs agent so they should 
refund the repair costs paid by Miss B together with 8% simple interest from the date she 
paid to the date of settlement. UKIL should provide Miss B with a certificate showing any 
taxation deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. U K Insurance Limited must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman