DRN-3315829
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do more to prevent her being the victim of 
investment scams.
What happened
Between November 2017 and August 2018 Ms D sent over 30 payments via debit card to 
scam investment firms and also sent a £15,000 wire transfer. 
In 2019, Ms D contacted Barclays to raise a dispute about some of these transactions. In 
2020, after a thorough review of Ms Ds statements, further disputes were raised for the 
remaining transactions. Ms D explained to us that she was disputing payments to two 
companies, G and C, but shed paid them and a number of other companies in the scams. 
Barclays was able to recover some of the money Ms D sent, but the majority of it couldnt be 
recovered. And it didnt agree to reimburse her the funds. Ms D made a number of low value 
payments over a long period of time, so it said these shouldnt have flagged on its system. 
And it didnt consider it could successfully do a chargeback for the debit card payments not 
already refunded, as it had been too long since the transactions. 
It also said Ms Ds statements showed she was an experienced investor. It considered she 
shouldve done research into the firms she was dealing with before sending funds. If she 
had, it said shed have seen warnings from either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and/or the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) about some of the 
firms she sent payments to. And these shouldve alerted her to potential issues with the 
firms. It considered that as Ms D didnt do adequate research, she was liable for the money 
lost. Ms D asked us to investigate her case.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She explained that she didnt think chargeback 
claims wouldve been successful for the payments, as Ms D didnt have the evidence 
required by VISA. She agreed that a number of the payments were for a lower amount 
and/or of a value often spent by Ms D, so Barclays didnt need to intervene on these. She 
said that while she felt Barclays shouldve blocked all payments made to firms with a 
warning on either FCA or IOSCO from more than a month before the payment, this didnt 
mean Ms D got these back. She concluded that any intervention by Barclays wouldnt have 
stopped Ms D making these payments, or sending the £15,000 wire transfer.
Ms D responded to the view and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider her case. She 
didnt provide any further evidence or testimony, or dispute the findings the investigator had 
reached. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms D hasnt been able to provide the evidence required by VISA for a chargeback 
involving an investment. She doesnt have dated evidence showing she tried to make 
withdrawals on the platforms. And not all her payments were sent direct to the firms 
she was dealing with. So Im satisfied Barclays has acted fairly in declining to pursue 
chargeback claims.
Barclays has a duty to process payments that a consumer requests it make from 
their account. I wouldnt expect Barclays to have concerns about payments of several 
thousand pounds on an account with usage like Ms Ds. And so, excluding the firms 
with warnings  which I will address below, I cant see any reason Barclays shouldnt 
have processed these payments.
There were IOSCO warnings that were up for over a month for four of the firms Ms D 
paid, when she made payments. So I agree with the investigator that Barclays 
shouldve had a system in place to automatically block these payments until a 
conversation with Ms D had taken place.
However, Ms Ds statements suggest she was an experienced investor and she was 
under the spell of some of the scam companies by the time I consider Barclays 
shouldve intervened. These warnings dont set out these firms are scams, but say 
theyve been acting in some countries without being regulated. I agree with the 
investigator that it doesnt seem an intervention or conversation by Barclays about 
this wouldve meant Ms D wasnt happy to go ahead. Her high-risk investment history 
means I dont think this wouldve stopped her investing at the time. 
The £15,000 wire payment was made as part of one of the above scams and after 
Ms D had been investing for some time. So I also dont think an intervention wouldve 
prevented this payment either, as Ms D had built rapport with the firm and again, she 
had a history of high-risk investments. And Barclays wouldnt have been able to warn 
her this was definitely a scam, as it didnt know this either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman