DRN-3724481
The complaint
Mr H complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) gave 
him inappropriate advice to invest in a UK growth fund in 1998 and 1999.
Mr Hs complaint is made by his attorney. Also he is represented by a claims management 
company. But Ill refer below to Mr H when referring to things said or done by Mr H or on his 
behalf by his attorney or his representative.
What happened
I have the advisers notes from 1999 (the notes) and a fund brochure but no advice letter 
and nothing from 1998. Ive assumed Mr Hs situation in 1998 was similar to 1999.
In 1998 Royal London advised Mr H to invest £6,000 in a UK growth fund (the fund). 
Figures a year later suggest this might have left Mr H with around £12,000 in cash savings. 
In 1999 Royal London recommended he pay £250 per month into the fund. As a result he 
paid in another £5000 in total  leaving him roughly £7000 in cash.
Mr H has said his cash came at least in part from his share of the sale of a property hed 
owned with his ex-wife.
The advisers notes say Mr H was in his mid-forties, living with his parents and hes said hed 
been there for some years since a divorce. The notes suggest he was paying rent or board 
and had a variety of other ordinary living expenses. His spare income was recorded as less 
than £80 per month after his expenses, which included £300 per month for leisure. This was 
all based on earnings of over £16,000 per year. In terms security in retirement, Mr H had 
good pension provision and had been with the same employer for more than 20 years.
The notes say Mr H had one dependent and also say the dependent lived elsewhere and 
(contradictorily) was not dependent on Mr H. Mr Hs recorded objectives included ensuring 
his dependent was provided for, saving for the future and building up his savings. The notes 
say the purpose of the 1999 advice was to build up savings in a flexible, tax-efficient way.
The notes say the adviser thought Mr Hs emergency funds adequate for his circumstances. 
According to the notes, Mr H was aware he should keep his money invested for the medium 
to long term. The adviser explained he may benefit from pound cost averaging. As a result 
he decided in 1999 to invest his money on a monthly basis rather than as one lump sum.
Mr H was recorded as having PEPs or unit trusts worth almost £10,000 in 1999. Its doubtful 
his 1998 investment had grown to that figure, so this figure is incorrect unless he also had 
other investments. Royal London hasnt given details of any other investments Mr H might 
have had. Mr H has said he didnt have anything else, except for his cash. Ive proceeded 
here on the basis that Mr H didnt hold or have experience of other risk investments. If he did 
have something else, it doesnt help me as I dont know what it was.
As well as the fund, the fund brochure offered an income fund and a specialist equity fund. 
Mr H was assessed in 1999 as agreeing to a balanced attitude to risk. Theres no other 
description of this there or in what I have, nor details of the other options. But I expect there 
was some further explanation of this available or given at the time. The term balanced is 
usually used to refer to what is also often referred to as medium risk.
Weve no factsheet from the time to show exactly how the fund was invested. But a brochure 
dated between the sales says it aimed for above-average capital growth and invested in a 
diversified range of UK shares. Ive assumed it invested substantially or mainly in larger UK 
companies, which make up most of the UK market. It wasnt a specialist fund, so its holdings 
arent likely to have been concentrated in any specific narrow sector or in smaller companies 
but diversified instead across a range of sectors. Its growth focus likely made it a bit riskier 
than income funds that emphasise established companies and steady dividend streams.
Mr H cashed-in the fund in 2006. He says this was to meet expenses arising from a house 
move. He says this move hadnt been planned at the time of the advice.
Mr H got back less than he invested. The loss on the 1998 investment was just over 15%. 
The loss on the 1999 investment was greater but more difficult to calculate as it wasnt 
funded by a lump sum. Mr H has said he accepted the losses as hed been told the fund was 
an investment that could lose money.
In his complaint, Mr H has said he was advised to take too much risk considering his lack of 
investment experience. He has also said that health issues he was suffering following and 
related to a relationship breakup some years earlier meant he wasnt in the right state of 
mind to make important financial decisions at the time.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2022 summarising the circumstances as I have 
above. I explained why I was planning to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I said Id consider 
anything more Mr H or Royal London wished to send me by 14 September. Mr H responded 
saying he didnt have anything more to add. Royal London hasnt sent anything new for me 
to consider.
As the complaint wasnt resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any persuasive new points from Mr H or 
Royal London, Ive arrived at the same conclusions as I did in my provision decision. So Ive 
decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont know exactly how the meetings came about but it seems it was due to Mr H receiving 
funds from a property sale and that Mr H wouldnt have expected to get funds like that again 
 he didnt have another property or any other assets he could sell to raise more funds.
Likewise, his work income was average but his net disposable income of less than £100 a 
month was limited. So Mr H had some disposable income to make up investment losses, but 
it was limited - and it would take him considerable time to build up more funds of the kind he 
was investing.
The £11,000 Mr H invested was substantial in that context. Also, it left him with no other 
assets, apart from his pension  which wasnt due for a great many years - and £7000 cash.
It isnt clear if or the extent to which Mr Hs dependent relied on him financially at the time  and if or the extent to which this contributed to Mr Hs limited disposable income position. 
But his recorded objectives show he wished to make good his responsibilities towards a 
dependent. In my view those responsibilities were likely to call on more rather than less of 
Mr Hs income as time went on  at least for the medium term.
A change in Mr Hs living arrangements in future in the short or medium term was also likely 
to increase rather than decrease his ongoing costs. I accept what happened later in this 
regard was more than five years later and neither the particular change nor its timing was 
anticipated at the time of the advice. Even so, whether or not in 1998 or 1999 a change in 
Mr Hs living arrangements was the most likely possibility, in my view it was still a realistic 
possibility in Mr Hs circumstances  and if it did happen it was unlikely to enhance his ability 
to build up savings and capital.
So the sums Mr H invested were substantial in his circumstances. He lacked assets and had 
limited disposable income. Significant losses on the funds he was investing wouldve had a 
significant impact on his finances overall.
The effect of the advice was that all the invested funds were invested into shares. In my view 
that was a risky approach in Mr Hs circumstances. I say this taking into account all Ive said 
above about the particular characteristics of the fund and the shares in which it invested.
I appreciate that amongst funds investing entirely in shares, there were riskier funds 
available. But there were a range of risk bearing alternatives that didnt involve as much risk 
as the fund Mr H was advised to invest in. For example, mixed funds with some shares but 
also other assets like property or lower risk bonds. The income fund here wouldve carried a 
little less investment risk, for instance, although it was still very highly focussed on equities.
That said, if Mr H wished to take what in his circumstances was a fairly aggressive approach 
to the investment of the major part of his available assets, he was of course entitled to do so. 
But advice to do so would not be suitable unless Mr H understood the risk - not just that loss 
could arise but also the level of risk his investment in the fund presented.
Ive considered whether more likely than not Mr H appreciated the level of risk he was taking 
by investing in the fund. Before I do so, Id briefly mention that Ive considered what he has 
said about having insufficient ability at the time to make these sorts of financial decisions, 
but what I have from the time in my view lends no support to this idea and Im not persuaded 
that Royal London was wrong to give Mr H investment advice in 1998 or 1999.
I dont know exactly what was said in 1999 about risk or what Mr H understood by it, but it is 
clear Mr H did understand the risk he was agreeing to meant he could lose money. He has 
explained this is why he didnt think the advice was faulty when he cashed in the fund at a 
loss. Also it was clear the money would be invested in the stock market. The fund brochure 
says the stock market can fall as well as rise. I think all this also supports that Mr H knew he 
could make a loss. But given his lack of experience of stock market investment, I dont think 
this shows he necessarily understood the degree of risk the fund carried  or understood 
how that risk was higher than some other available risk-based investment options.
Given Mr Hs inexperience, I dont think the word balanced will have conveyed much on its 
own about the degree of risk involved in a fund invested entirely in shares. I dont think that 
the use of that word means Mr H will most likely have understood how risky the fund was. 
There will likely have been some additional explanation around the term, but I dont know the 
detail of that. The notes that we have from the time dont really throw any light on that. His 
objective of building up savings, for example, doesnt say anything about his wish to take 
investment risk. It is an objective that couldve been achieved in various ways that involved 
some risk without the level of risk of a fund investing entirely in shares.The funds aim was to achieve above average growth. Above average growth tends to imply 
above average risk. Theres nothing in what is recorded about Mr Hs risk attitude that 
suggests he was given to understand he was taking above average risk. Of course above 
average doesnt mean much without reference to what is being averaged. The brochure 
didnt say what average the fund was trying to beat. Perhaps above average meant no 
more than that the fund would try to do well. But if the fund did aim to take more risk to beat 
average returns from funds with similar investments, in my view this would add weight to the 
case that the fund was unsuitable rather than suitable for Mr H in his circumstances.
I note that the loss Mr H made on the fund didnt at that time make him think the advice hed 
received was faulty. Ive thought about this carefully. In my view a loss of the kind Mr H 
made was less likely but still possible with a suitable, less risky fund. So in my view Mr Hs 
reaction or lack of reaction to the loss doesnt mean he properly understood the degree of 
risk involved with the fund at the start or that it was suitable for him. On balance it isnt 
enough to make me think that most likely the degree of risk was properly conveyed to and 
understood by Mr H at the start or that this level of risk was suitable for him.
I also recognise that notes were made in 1999 that Mr H realised after our discussion that 
he may benefit from pound cost averaging and wants to put his money in on a monthly 
basis. In my view this means there was a discussion of how contributions made at times 
when values are lower will buy more units  which means the fact the value of the fund can 
fall and rise was discussed. It also shows that Mr H chose to take slightly less risk at that 
time in 1999, compared to 1998, by spreading out what he intended to invest. But I think it is 
going too far to conclude that this evidence shows Mr H understood the degree of risk he 
was taking as a result of investing in a fund investing entirely in shares  or understood how 
such a fund was risker than some alternative available risk-based investment options. For 
one thing, nothing in the note points directly to that conclusion.
I appreciate that some paperwork used at the sale is no longer available. But what we do 
have doesnt, overall, help me think the fund was a suitable fund to recommend to Mr H in 
his circumstance or that Mr H understood the degree of risk he was taking by accepting that 
advice. In saying this I bear in mind that the fundamental details Ive noted above of Mr Hs 
situation at the time, wouldnt be altered by more paperwork. On balance I dont think the 
fund was suitable for Mr H or that Mr H did understand the degree of risk it involved.
Not much consideration seems to have been given in 1999 to any future plans Mr H might 
have had regarding his living arrangements. Maybe he firmly intended for things to remain 
as they were, but if that were so I think it wouldve been worth recording. I dont overlook that 
if his living arrangements changed, Mr H might also have needed access to at least some 
capital. But I think the cash he had available in case of unforeseen needs was a reasonable 
amount  given, for example, his lack of specific spending plans. Also the evidence supports 
that Mr H was made aware the invested funds should be invested for longer than the short 
term. So what I find unsuitable here isnt that Mr H was advised to invest in a longer-term 
risk-based investment, but the level of risk the selected fund presented for him in his 
circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, and taking into account all the arguments that have been 
presented, I dont think in Mr Hs circumstance the fund was a suitable recommendation for 
the investments he made and Im not persuaded he understood the degree of risk he was 
taking by accepting that advice. So I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Royal London do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should also pay interest as set out 
below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
UK growth 
fund No longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; Date of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was prepared to take some risk with his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It has a 
significantly lower amount invested in shares than the fund recommended to Mr H and 
has exposure to other less risky asset types.
Im satisfied the index is a suitable comparator, given Mr Hs circumstances and the 
evidence we have of his willingness to take risk, including his reaction to the loss in 
2006.
Id mention that until the calculation is carried out it is not possible to say whether this lower level of risk wouldve produced a better or worse result for Mr H. If the result is no better, 
then no redress would be due.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint.
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should put things right by carrying out 
the calculation set out above and paying Mr H any redress it shows is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman