DRN-3191113
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about shares he bought through Templeton Securities Limited (at the
time an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited).  
What happened
Ive considered Mr Js complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 10 November 
2021. Ive repeated here the background and my provisional findings. 
Mr J says he was cold called in late 2013 and offered a review of his pension arrangements.
That led to him establishing a SIPP (self invested personal pension). He later invested in
shares in Emmit plc. Mr J says the advice to open to SIPP and invest in Emmit came from
an unregulated introducer.
Mr J signed the application form for the SIPP on 20 January 2014. But it seems it wasnt
received by the SIPP provider until 14 May 2014. On the form Mr J confirmed that the SIPP
was to be established as execution only and that the SIPP provider and the SIPP trustee
hadnt given any advice. The form asked Mr J to give his reasons for wanting to establish a
SIPP without using a professional adviser. Mr J wrote that hed had an in depth look at the
options open to him and he was happy with his decision and didnt see the need to involve a
financial adviser.
He indicated that hed be transferring in funds from two personal pension schemes. At the
section of the form dealing with investments he said he was appointing an investment
manager to advise on his SIPP investments. Ill call that business Firm A. Mr J inserted Firm
As details on the form. He ticked a box to say that Firm As role was advisory. Firm A was
regulated.
Ive also seen a form of authority which Mr J also signed on 20 January 2014. It authorised
the SIPP provider to provide a business, who it seems was unregulated and based abroad,
with information. I understand it was that business or one associated with it that advised Mr J
to set up the SIPP and buy the Emmit shares. Ill call that business Firm B.
Mr Js SIPP was established at the end of May 2014. The value of two personal pension
arrangements were transferred into the SIPP. £49,733.76 was transferred in on 11 June
2014 and £44,148.10 on 2 July 2014.
Ive seen that Mr J had completed an application form on 16 April 2014 to open a trading
account with Firm A. But that account wasnt opened. Instead Mr J opened an account with
Templeton Securities.
Mr J completed Templeton Securities Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application
Booklet on 9 July 2014. Under the heading What to expect as a client of Templeton
Securities it said:
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
And, under the heading, Important information regarding your application, it said that
Templeton Securities was required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA) to provide suitable investment advice and services, based on the information Mr J
provided about his circumstances.
Mr J had to fill out his personal details. In the section headed Important Financial
information the form said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities,
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing the
suitability of our investment management service we provide.
Mr J indicated his total assets were £217,867, made up of the value of his property
(£125,000) and his pension plans (£92,867). But his net worth, taking into account that his
property was subject to a mortgage and other short term liabilities, was only £92,767. His
total monthly income was £1,950 and his total expenditure £900. His preferred level of
investment risk was medium/high and his investment objective was capital growth with a
time horizon of more than seven years. His investment experience was novice in respect of
equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. Intermediate (one to five years) was indicated
for funds. If Mr J required copy information provided by Templeton Securities to be sent his
financial intermediaries (such as his independent financial adviser) he should add their
details. Mr J left that section blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have
received and which I agree to.
Ive referred below to what some of those term and conditions said.
Templeton Securities accepted the application on 21 July 2014 and set up a trading account
in Mr Js name.
On 29 July 2014 Mr J transferred £92,867.24 to his account with Templeton Securities. On
31 July 2014 he sent an email to a named individual at Templeton Securities (who Ill call Mr
C) saying:
I wish to invest £60,000 in Emmit (EMT) plc aim listed securities with a £1.50 limit for T1
settlement.
Please advise me via email when this has been transacted.
Templeton Securities acted on that instruction and £58,885.52 was invested in Emmit
shares.
Ive seen a letter dated 11 September 2014 from Templeton Securities to Mr J. The letter,headed, Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit, said:
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type
of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued a statement about the
promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. It said it had been made aware that
individuals were being encouraged to transfer money from their work pension schemes into
SIPPs and use that money to buy shares in Emmit. It said some investors were being
offered cash back on their investments in Emmit of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by
a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of
their pension assets into Emmit shares and could suffer significant financial loss if theyd
done that without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmit was suspended in October 2014 and the shares were delisted in
May 2015. Templeton Securities has recently said that it appears the shares have no value.
Mr J, through his representative, complained to Templeton Securities on 13 November 2017.
The reasons given for the complaint were:
Non suitability as an execution trading client;
Mis use of allocated pension monies;
Lack of due diligence on the investment undertaken;
Investment allocation in a high risk investment.
Mr Js representative pointed to what Mr J had said on his application form  that his home
was subject to a mortgage, he had no assets aside from his pension and no investment
experience. Hed been advised to set up a SIPP by an unregulated introducer whod also
advised him to buy shares in Emmit.
Mr J had never traded stocks and shares but was deemed suitable as an execution only
client. Templeton Securities had purchased the shares after receiving an email. Mr Js
representative queried if Templeton Securities shouldve done that, given Mr Js lack of
experience and that hed never traded with Templeton Securities via email. Hed also been
told to send his emails to Mr C. Again, Mr Js representative questioned if that was usual
business practice. Further, Mr J had opened an advisory dealing account so that he could
receive advice on investments.
Mr Js representative referred to COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 9.2R (1) which
says a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a decision to trade is suitable for its
client. It said the FCAs Principles had been breached in the way the business was
introduced and executed. Templeton Securities hadnt acted in the best interests of its client.
It added that email transactions were exempt from the need to transact a customer order
and the transaction shouldve been clarified with Mr J. The representative explained that
further in its letter to us dated 15 January 2018, asking us to look into the complaint,
Templeton Securities not having responded to the complaint. Templeton Securities had
stated it had to action Mr Js request. But COBS 5.2.9R says that the requirement to the
placing and receipt of orders (in COBS 5.2.6R) doesnt apply to contracts concludedexclusively by exchange of email or equivalent individual communications.
The representative also said, about execution only clients, that the regulators view was the
consumers background could be taken into account. If they appeared to be an experienced
investor or had worked in the investment industry, an execution only instruction could
probably be taken at face value. But if they didnt have any investment history or apparent
connection to the industry, it would usually need further explanation. It was unlikely the
execution only statement can be relied on without a clear explanation from either party of
what information the consumer used to make their decision.
We wrote to Templeton Securities on 25 January 2018 asking for its comments and
supporting documentation. After some delay Templeton Securities did reply. Its main points
were:
It had no involvement in the establishment of the SIPP and it didnt undertake to
manage the investments in the SIPP or determine the composition of them.
Mr Js instruction to invest £60,000 (of which £58,885.52 was invested) was
unsolicited and Templeton Securities didnt provide any investment recommendation.
Mr Js account with was subject to Templeton Securities terms and conditions, a
copy of which was provided to Mr J and receipt of which he acknowledged.
It was an advisory account. Templeton Securities could (but werent obliged to) make
investment recommendations and provide investment advice, either at Mr Js request
or on Templeton Securities own initiative. The terms and conditions clearly state that
Templeton Securities doesnt undertake discretionary management of the
investments and any investment advice provided is on the understanding that it
doesnt accept responsibility on a continuing basis for advising on the composition of
the portfolio.
Templeton Securities also agrees to execute orders given by the client on an
execution only basis. Investment advice and order execution services arent mutually
exclusive. Mr J elected to have an advisory relationship with Templeton Securities.
But that didnt preclude him from trading without advice (from Templeton Securities).
Clause 6.4 of the terms and conditions says Templeton Securities wont advise about
the merits of a particular transaction if it reasonably believed, when the client gave
the order for that particular transaction, that he wasnt expecting advice and was
dealing on an execution only basis. And, where the transaction relates to non
complex financial instruments (such as shares, bonds or UCITS), Templeton
Securities isnt required to ensure the transaction is suitable or appropriate for the
client. That mirrors COBS 10.4.1R at the time.
COBS 10.4.1R says a firm isnt required to ask a client for information or assess
appropriateness (as per COBS 10.2.1R) if:
(a) the service only consists of execution and/or the reception and
transmission of client orders, with or without ancillary services, it relates to
particular financial instruments and is provided at the initiative of the client;
(b) the client has been clearly informed (whether the warning is given in a
standardised format or not) that in the provision of this service the firm is not
required to assess the suitability of the instrument or service provided or
offered and that therefore he does not benefit from the protection of the ruleson assessing suitability; and
(c) the firm complies with its obligations in relation to conflicts of interest.
The service in relation to the email of 31 July 2014 was execution only, specifically in
relation to the Emmit shares and at Mr Js own initiative. Clause 6.4 of the terms and
conditions addresses (b) above. Templeton Securities wasnt obliged to assess
appropriateness. Templeton Securities had every right to accept execution only
orders from Mr J. If it hadnt acted on the instruction, which it believed in good faith to
be bona fide given in accordance with its terms and conditions, it wouldve failed to
act with due skill, care and diligence.
In the absence of any doubt as to the authenticity of the instruction and given
Templeton Securities was, in this instance, providing an execution only service where
there was no obligation to assess appropriateness, there was no reason why it
wouldve contacted Mr J to discuss his investment. The agreement to provide
investment advisory services didnt mean it was mandatory to advise on every
transaction. Mr J didnt request advice in this instance. Templeton Securities wasnt
bound legally or otherwise to proffer advice on an unsolicited order generated by the
client himself. In the absence of anything which might reasonably have caused it to
question the instruction dated 31 July 2014, Templeton Securities had no legal or
regulatory duty to second guess the instruction. It acted on the instruction and doing
so wasnt negligent. Not executing the instruction wouldve been a breach of its
contractual obligations to Mr J.
Templeton Securities regretted that Mr J had incurred losses by investing on his own
initiative in Emmit. But his losses hadnt arisen by reason of any act or omission on
Templeton Securities part.
Our investigator issued his view on 15 August 2019. He upheld the complaint. In summary
he said that Templeton Securities was aware that Mr J was a medium risk investor. The
SIPP terms and conditions of allowed AIM (Alternative Investment Market) listed securities.
But a large percentage of Mr Js total account was being invested into a single AIM stock. A
warning shouldve been given or advice offered at that stage. A warning was issued to Mr J
but not until 11 September 2014.
The investigator went on to say, had Mr J acted on that letter, he might have limited his
losses prior to the shares ceasing to trade. The investigator said redress should be
calculated from the date Mr J had invested in Emmit until 15 September 2014 with interest
on the loss to the date of settlement.
Templeton Securities didnt accept the investigators view. In summary it said:
Trading of shares in Emmit were suspended in October 2014 and delisted in May
2015. But Templeton Securities had written to Mr J on 11 September 2014 about the
appropriateness of investing in high risk investments. He had plenty of time to
consider his position. At the time Templeton Securities wrote, the shares were
trading around 132.50p.
The SIPP provider had described a SIPP as a sophisticated and regulated financial
product. The SIPP provider shouldve explained the risks to Mr J.
Mr J may have received an incentive payment from the introducer or the SIPP
provider.The language used in the email of 31 July 2014 was straightforward. The term T1
settlement is used universally in execution only orders. If the email was drafted by a
third party then, if Mr J hadnt understood the terminology, he shouldve questioned it.
Templeton Securities had authority to accept an instruction from Mr J. Emmit was
listed on the AIM and it was a permitted SIPP investment, as confirmed by the SIPP
providers Permitted Investment document, a copy of which Templeton Securities
supplied.
Mr J had said his preferred level of risk was medium/high and he had one to five
years experience of investing in funds. At the same time as he invested in Emmit
shares he invested around £34,000 in other shares. He had traded with Templeton
Securities on a regular basis since then and continues to do so.
Mr Js representative was concerned about the suggested redress. He said the shares were
traded in volumes far exceeding what was normal and were traded in the manner of a
matched bargain. The representative didnt believe, if Mr J had tried to sell his stock, that
wouldve been possible. Secondly it wouldve been at a vastly reduced price.
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or
omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including regulated
activities (see DISP 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments (article
25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to provide
advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only sale.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
the light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Js representatives central argument is that Templeton Securities shouldnt have
accepted an execution only instruction from Mr J. Ive considered that first. Ive noted Mr Js
representatives reference to COBS 5.2.9R but Im not sure that provision  which relates to
an electronic commerce activity  applies here. Given my below findings, I havent
considered it further.
Could Templeton Securities accept an execution only instruction from Mr J?
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr Js account with Templeton Securities was set up on
an advisory basis. The issue is whether Templeton Securities was able to accept execution
only instructions in some circumstances. I think, looking at the general terms and conditions
of its agreement with Mr J, that Templeton Securities could accept Mr Js execution onlyorder. Ive explained below why Ive reached that view below and with reference to what I
see as the central provisions.
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product
investment recommendations [my emphasis]. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms &
Conditions should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any
product. We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are
only able to act on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what
instructions you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you
make when you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept
responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio.
Mr J hadnt been designated as an execution only client. And hed supplied information
about his investment objectives, financial circumstances and the degree of risk he was
prepared to accept. But, as Ive highlighted above, clause 3.1 provided for the situation
where, even though information had been given, it might be reasonable for Templeton
Securities to believe that Mr J wasnt expecting it to advise about the merits of a particular
transaction in a non complex financial instrument. In that scenario Templeton Securities
wouldnt make any recommendations. Non complex wasnt defined. But I think, taking into
account what COBS 10.4.1R said, an investment in Emmit shares was a non complex
financial instrument.
Clause 3.1 was echoed in clause 6, headed, Appropriateness.
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the specific
type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on the basis
of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is not
appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
Applicable Regulation was defined as meaning FCA rules or any other rules of a relevant
regulatory authority or any other rules of a relevant Market and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
I think thats a reference to COBS 10. Ive referred above to what that provision said and the
circumstances in which a firm isnt required to ask its client to provide information or assess
appropriateness  that is if subsections (a), (b) and (c) of COBS 10.4.1R (1) are satisfied.
The particular financial instruments, referred to in subsection (a), are set out in COBS
10.4.1R (2) and include shares admitted to trading on a regulated market (such as AIM).
I think (a) is satisfied. I havent seen anything to suggest there was any conflict of interest as
mentioned in (c). But I dont think (b) was met. Templeton Securities has pointed to its terms
and conditions (see, for example, clause 6.4 mentioned below). But, while a warning in
standardised form was permitted, I think (b) requires a warning to be given at the time of the
particular service. It says, in the provision of this [my emphasis] service. That means a
specific warning (albeit that in might be in a standardised format) has to be given at the time.And thats consistent with Templeton Securities own terms and conditions  see clause 6.4
which says:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction
if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not
expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction
relates to noncomplex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will
inform you at the time [my emphasis] that we will execute your order on that basis and we
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
I cant see that Templeton Securities gave Mr J the requisite warning at the time. But I dont
think much turns on that. I dont think a failure to give a warning at the time (as required by
COBS 10.4.1R and Templetons own terms and conditions) means Templeton Securities
couldnt accept an execution only instruction from Mr J. I think the more important question is
whether, as clause 6.4 (and clause 3.1) required, Templeton Securities reasonably believed
that Mr J wasnt expecting advice and was dealing on an execution only basis.
I note here what Mr Js representative has said about the purchase of the Emmit shares
being Mr Js first and only trade on his account. And that single trade was in respect of all
the funds Mr J had transferred to his Templeton Securities account. It also accounted for
some two thirds of his entire pension fund.
But, on the other hand, the instruction given in the email of 31 July 2014 was clear and
specific. It looked like Mr J had made a settled decision to invest in Emmit. I dont think
theres anything in his email which suggests he was expecting Templeton Securities to give
him any advice about the transaction. I think the indication is that hed made a decision to
invest and he expected Templeton Securities to simply comply with his instruction and make
the purchase. On the face of it, Mr Js instruction appeared complete and valid.
Ive borne in mind that the wording of the email was in some respects technical. Templeton
Securities says it wasnt but I dont agree. I dont think anyone without some financial
services experience, including in securities transactions, would be familiar with a T1
settlement or understood how a request to purchase with a £1.50 limit for T1 settlement
would operate. Im not even sure that a novice equities investor such as Mr J wouldve really
understood what an AIM listed security was and how that differed from a stock that was
listed on, for example, the London Stock Exchange.
But I dont think that, of itself, meant that Templeton Securities shouldve queried the
instruction. If anything, it might reinforce Templeton Securities belief that Mr J wasnt
expecting advice. It might appear hed taken advice from another party. On the face of it, it
appeared to be a valid instruction and I dont think Templeton Securities shouldve been
prompted to look behind it just because of the technical language used.
That meant, and in accordance with clause 3.1 (see the penultimate sentence Ive quoted
from that provision above), Templeton Securities didnt accept responsibility for the
investment decision which Mr J had made when hed engaged Templeton Securities as an
execution only customer.
And clause 4.9, about Specific client instruction, said:
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions. Where your instructionsrelate to only part of the order, we will continue to apply our order execution policy to those
aspects of the order not covered by your specific instructions.
4.9.2 You should be aware that providing specific instructions to us in relation to the
execution of a particular order may prevent us from taking the steps set out in our order
execution policy to obtain the best possible result in respect of the elements covered by
those instructions. We reserve the right to refuse specific instructions from you regarding the
execution of your order, where in our opinion such instructions are not practicable or may be
contrary to your best interests.
All in all, and on the face of it, Templeton Securities didnt act incorrectly in accepting Mr Js
instruction and carrying it out.
But I dont think thats the end of the matter. Templeton Securities has said, in the absence
of anything which might reasonably have caused it to question the instruction dated 31 July
2014, it had no legal or regulatory duty to second guess it. But, as Ive gone on to explain, I
think there were factors which shouldve led Templeton Securities to question or look more
closely at Mr Js instruction and whether it should comply with it.
Should Templeton Securities have accepted Mr Js instruction?
Id reiterate (as set out above) that Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of a case.
Weve received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same time.
Templeton Securities received a significant number of requests to open this type of advisory
account with it, all within a relatively short period. And, very shortly after the accounts were
opened, emailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to Templeton
Securities instructing investment in Emmit (and, in some cases, also instructing investment
in one or two other particular shares).
By the time Templeton Securities received Mr Js instruction (31 July 2014), it had already
received a large number (some 20 or so) of requests to open accounts and invest in Emmit
shares. The requests had started to come in from about 20 or 21 May 2014. From what Ive
seen, there were some days when Templeton Securities received half a dozen or so emails
on the same day, from different investors, all with near identical wording and relating to the
same stocks.
To date weve received over 20 complaints. From what Ive seen, in all cases, emails with
the investment instruction were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities (Mr C)
(who I understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that time). And
these are only the cases where investors have complained and the matter has been referred
to us. I think its very probable there are other instances of which Im not aware and where
no complaint has been made and referred to us.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty
wasnt unqualified. First, Templeton Securities had a broad contractual discretion whether to
accept any order or instruction from Mr J. Clause 3.7 said:
We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate
certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
Secondly, Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm and in accordance with its own terms
and conditions, had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules. Clause 2.2 said:These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The
term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the
FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any Applicable
Regulations, the latter will prevail;
(ii) nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude or restrict any obligation which
we have to you under any Applicable Regulations;
(iii) we may take or omit to take any action we consider necessary to ensure compliance
with any Applicable Regulations; and
(iv) such actions that we take or omit to take for the purposes of compliance with any
Applicable Regulations shall not render us or any of our directors, officers,
employees or agents liable to you.
The duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the terms and conditions as an
overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those terms. And that
Templeton Securities could take, or omit to take, any action it considered necessary (such
as not complying with a clients instruction) to ensure compliance with its regulatory
obligations.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through the
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities
was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and Rules (for
example COBS) and as set out in the terms and conditions.
Ive thought about the Principles and whether Templeton Securities complied with them,
taking into account what Ive said above about the wider circumstances and in the context of
the instruction Mr J gave on 31 July 2014. I think Principles 2, 3 and 6 are particularly
relevant here. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Here Templeton Securities was receiving a number of emails sent to the same person; there
was a pattern of remarkably similarly worded execution only instructions from different
clients with SIPP accounts. All wanted Templeton Securities to process purchases in the
same niche AIM share(s). And the instructions were fairly concentrated  all were received,
from what Ive seen, over a period of just over two months.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker ought reasonably to have been alerted to the
possibility that something unusual might be going on. In my view, the circumstances ought to
have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of thetransactions and take a closer look behind them.
If it had done so, it would have identified that the instructions were coming from ordinary
retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time from
opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche share(s)
presenting significant risks which werent the type of investments that would normally
be expected to form the significant part of anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche share(s),
suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised by someone
to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And that was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of
section 19 of FSMA.
The number of grouped instructions to purchase niche shares, specifying particular
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was
not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of
view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares
of one or two small, obscure companies: a FCA authorised firm would have
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely
to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let
alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Js instruction ought reasonably
to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction.
Had it done so and looked at the information it already had available through the account
opening documentation, it would have seen that Mr J had a relatively modest income and no
savings, other investments or assets. The money hed invested in his SIPP (£92,867)
represented his entire net worth. Although hed indicated a medium/high attitude to risk, his
instruction was to invest £60,000 in a single niche share. I dont think that was consistent
with his attitude to risk. And the investment was clearly at odds with his financial
circumstances, including his capacity for loss. Hed also indicated he was a novice investor
in equities. An instruction to invest a large amount and a large percentage of his overall
pension fund in a single niche share would be unusual coming from an inexperienced
investor with a relatively small pension fund.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities shouldve recognised that the
investment was clearly unsuitable for Mr J. And that he wasnt, for his own particular
reasons, instructing an unsuitable order, given that so many other, relatively new (and
advisory) inexperienced clients were giving virtually identical instructions in similar
circumstances. I think Templeton Securities ought to have realised that it was likely that a
third party was behind all the highly similar and somewhat unusual instructions.I understand that Templeton Securities has said that Firm B wasnt known to it. And it didnt
have any discussions or agreement with it or any arrangement of any kind for the
introduction of business or otherwise. But, if Templeton Securities had looked into things
further, I think it wouldve discovered, relatively easily, that in Mr Js (and others) case, Firm
B, an unregulated firm, was the common denominator and that the many and similarly
worded instructions came Firm B. Had Templeton Securities queried the instruction with Mr J
and explained its concerns, I cant see that hed have had any reason not to tell Templeton
Securities whod suggested the investment.
Giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments are regulated activities.
Section 19 of FSMA  the general prohibition  says that no person may carry on a
regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so unless they are an authorised person. I dont
see that Mr J (or other ordinary retail clients) wouldve been aware of the general prohibition
or that Firm B wasnt an authorised firm and the significance of that. I dont doubt that Mr J
(and others) would simply have trusted Firm B and thought that its adviser was acting
lawfully and in his best interests.
If Mr J had said that Firm B was involved and, if Templeton Securities had checked out Firm
Bs status, it wouldve found out that Firm B was unregulated. Knowing that an unregulated
firm was involved ought, I think, to have rung alarm bells with Templeton Securities. And that
an unauthorised person was advising Mr J (and others) to invest in niche, high risk shares. I
think Templeton Securities wouldve been able to identify from a fairly cursory look at the
information it held about Mr Js circumstances, that the investment advice Mr J had received
 to invest a very substantial sum in a single niche high risk share  was wholly unsuitable
for him. At that point I think Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion to decline
to accept the instruction.
Against that background, I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under
Principles 2, 3 and 6. If it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and taken
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate
risk management systems, it shouldve identified the high number of execution only requests
from relatively new advisory clients. And that there were striking and unusual similarities in
those requests. I think that shouldve led Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the
instructions.
If it had done so, Templeton Securities wouldve discovered that Mr J (and others) were
being advised by an unregulated adviser who was assisting them in making high risk and
unsuitable investments. Given the clear risk of consumer detriment, Templeton Securities,
and acting in Mr Bs best interests, shouldve exercised its discretion and declined to accept
his instruction.
I note that Templeton Securities did write to Mr J on 11 September 2014 about the
investment. That was some months after the investment had been made. I understand that
Templeton Securities wrote to Mr J and other customers following a review carried out by its
compliance office because of the number of transactions in Emmit and the rumours that
were circulating around the market about people investing in it. I think the fact that
Templeton Securities did write in the terms it did on 11 September 2014 and for the reasons
it has explained supports what Ive said  that Templeton Securities shouldve realised from
the volume of similar, if not identical, business t was receiving that something unusual and
untoward might be going on and which required further investigation.
Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. I think Templeton
Securities shouldve had systems and controls in place which, in the circumstances Ive set
out above, wouldve meant a pattern was spotted earlier.In my view, Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion under clause 3.7 to
decline to carry out Mr Js instruction to purchase the Emmit shares. It shouldve realised
that there was a real risk of consumer detriment. It was in a position to prevent the purchase
of the shares. Instead it facilitated Mr Js investment. I think Templeton Securities failed in its
regulatory obligations by acting on Mr Js instruction.
What would Mr J have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his instruction?
I think a refusal and an explanation from Templeton Securities as to why it wasnt prepared
to carry out Mr Js instruction wouldve carried weight. And given Mr J pause for thought
about whether investing in Emmit was a good idea.
Depending on how Templeton Securities might have put things to Mr J and what may have
been said about the dangers of accepting advice from an unauthorised person and the high
risk nature of the investment, Mr J may have decided immediately that he didnt want
anything further to do with the unregulated firm.
I recognise that hed been dealing with the unregulated adviser for some time and
presumably trusted him. But I think an indication from Templeton Securities, a regulated firm,
that what Mr J was being told to do by someone who wasnt authorised to give financial
advice anyway, is likely to have caused Mr J to think again about the wisdom of investing as
had been suggested. I think, in that scenario, Mr J wouldve asked Templeton Securities for
advice as to how to invest instead and in line with his attitude to risk and circumstances.
If Mr J had still wanted to proceed as planned then, as hed already transferred funds to
Templeton Securities and if it had declined to purchase the shares, Mr J wouldve needed to
have found another broker, asked the SIPP provider to get the money back from Templeton
Securities and then transfer it into the new account and give a fresh instruction to the new
broker. I think that wouldve caused practical difficulties for Mr J and is likely to have been
enough to have made him think again.
Im aware that in some cases investors received a payment in return for investing in Emmit.
Mr J has told us that he didnt any payment. Weve asked him to provide evidence in support
 his bank statements from around the time the investment was made  to show that no
payment was received. But as things stand, and if he didnt get a payment, then theres no
suggestion that he was motivated to proceed with the investment because he wanted to
secure the incentive payment.
On balance, I think, if Templeton Securities had refused to carry out Mr Js instruction, that
wouldve been enough to make him reconsider and decide against investing.
Should Mr J have tried to sell his shares in Emmit when he got Templeton Securities letter
of 11 September 2014?
As far as Im aware Mr J got that letter. But he didnt take any steps to try to sell his shares.
As the shares werent suspended until October 2014 then, in theory at least, Mr J may have
been able to sell them. Templeton Securities has said that the share price was then 132.50p.
A sale at that price would still have represented a loss for Mr J (Im not sure but I think hed
purchased closer to around 150.00p per share) but Mr J wouldve avoided the total loss of
his investment which it seems he now faces.
Its difficult to say what Mr J wouldve done. With hindsight its perhaps easy to say that he
shouldve sold his shares, even though that wouldve crystallised a loss. The investigatorthought that Mr J shouldve tried to sell and that, in consequence, redress should be capped.
Although I can see thats arguable, I dont agree.
First, I dont know if Mr J wouldve been able to sell and, if so, at what price. I note what his
representative says about that. I can see that a sudden and large volume of sell instructions
might not have been possible for the market to accommodate and is likely to have impacted
adversely on the share price, particularly if Templeton Securities wrote to a large number of
investors at about the same time (September 2014, a month before the Emmit shares were
suspended) about the appropriateness of the investment.
Secondly, and more importantly, I dont think the 11 September 2014 letter was, of itself,
sufficient to prompt Mr J to act. It was relatively brief. It did draw to Mr Js attention to the
high risk nature of the investment. And that Templeton Securities hadnt assessed suitability.
But Mr J had indicated that his attitude to risk was medium/high. He might have thought that
a high risk investment wasnt incompatible with that. He wasnt an expert (hed indicated he
was a novice when it came to equities) and he wouldnt have known whether the investment
was high risk in the sense that it carried an above medium risk or if it was perhaps more
speculative. Nor would he have known that investing the bulk of his only pension fund
increased the level of risk he was taking.
Hed been advised to invest in Emmit shares only a couple of months earlier. That was on
the advice of an unregulated adviser. But I dont see Mr J wouldve been aware of the
significance of that. The letter didnt indicate there were any particular problems with the
investment. I dont think the wording was sufficiently strong or specific such as ought to have
prompted Mr J to act.
Ive also thought about what, if anything, Mr Js failure to act on the letter shows about what
hed have done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his instruction to purchase
the shares. I think theres a difference between refusing to carry out his instructions and
telling him later - some two and a half months after the event  that he might want to
consider if the investment was appropriate for him. Refusing to carry out his instruction
wouldve conveyed a stronger message. And, as Ive said, if Mr J had wanted to go ahead
anyway, then hed have needed to take steps (and fairly quickly) to make that happen.
By the time Mr J received the letter of 11 September 2014 the investment had already been
made. Leaving things as they were was the default and easier option. I dont think Mr J
shouldve acted to sell the shares when he got the letter. I dont think it would be fair to say
that redress should be capped at that date and based on the share price then. Mr J wouldnt
have the shares at all if Templeton Securities had acted as it shouldve done and declined to
process his instruction to buy the shares.
Sections 27 and 28 of FSMA
For completeness Ive also considered the application of sections 27 and 28 of FSMA. In
doing so, Ive borne in mind the findings in the recent Court of Appeal case of Adams v
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2021] EWCA Civ
474.
In summary, section 27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with
another person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a consequence
of something said or done by an unregulated party acting in breach of the general prohibition
(section 19 of FSMA). Section 27 provides an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable
against the other party and sets out what the other party can recover. Section 28 provides
the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which section 27 applies to be in any
event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do so.For section 27 of FSMA to apply, an agreement must have been made by an authorised
person (here, Templeton) in consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a
third party (here, Firm B). Given the facts of Mr Bs complaint and the surrounding
circumstances as Ive set out above, I think its most likely Firm B was in breach of the
general prohibition by arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of
the RAO. And I think the advice and Firm Bs actions in providing Mr J with a draft purchase
instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr J buying the shares. As Ive explained, I think
its unlikely that so many ordinary retail clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest
in these little known niche shares at around the same time.
I think a court would find that section 27 applies, and Mr J can (subject to section 28),
recover the monies he invested through his agreement with Templeton Securities when it
accepted his instructions to purchase the shares and the investment losses he sustained.
Ive gone on to consider section 28. I think the overriding question is that set out in section
28 (3)  that is whether it would be just and equitable in the circumstances of the case to
allow enforcement of the agreement or retention of the price paid. The significance of section
28 (4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to whether the firm knew the third party
was breaching the general prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting
the requirements of section 28 (6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted.
So, whilst it has to be taken into account, that factor isnt necessarily determinative. And the
question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general prohibition was
being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but it isnt also not a
determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think in deciding section 28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Js case, the court
would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round. For the
reasons Ive set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that shouldve
reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being put in
harms way and that theyd been given the same unsuitable advice by the same source. As
Ive said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted reasonably in ignoring those signals of
potential wrongdoing. And I think, whilst the court would take into account it may not have
had actual knowledge of the breach, looking at the circumstances in the round, had it acted
reasonably  rather than ignore those clear warnings  it wouldve discovered the breach on
making reasonable enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow
Templeton Securities relief under section 28. And so Mr J could recover his money under 
section 27.
Responses to my provisional decision
We gave both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional decision. Mr Js 
representative said that Mr J was happy to accept it and had nothing further to add. 
Templeton Securities requested more time to respond, which we granted. And, when we 
hadnt received anything further by the new deadline, we allowed a further period for 
response. We also said that I was aware that, in connection with other cases, reference had 
been made to an investigation by the FCA. We asked, if Templeton Securities wanted to 
make any further submissions about that, to include them in its response. We didnt hear 
further from Templeton Securities by the date a response was promised or since.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, Im aware that reference has been made to an investigation by the FCA. 
And weve seen a copy of a letter the FCA had sent to Alexander David Securities dated 12 
November 2014. The letter said the FCA had appointed investigators to conduct an 
investigation into whether offences under section 89 of the Financial Services Act 2012; and 
or behaviour amounting to market abuse as defined in section 118 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) may have occurred. The letter went on to request various 
records from the firm relating to trades in Emmit plc, along with other trading records from 
certain account holders and account documentation from certain SIPP providers.
Ive considered that letter. But I dont think it changes anything. I dont think the FCA was 
investigating the same matter. Im looking here at Mr Js specific complaint about whether 
Templeton Securities met its obligations to him in its dealings with him. For the reasons I set 
out in my provisional decision I dont think Templeton Securities did. As Ive said, we asked 
for any further details about the FCAs investigation but none have been forthcoming. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im aware that in some cases investors received a 
payment in return for investing in Emmit but Mr J has told us that he didnt any payment. We 
asked him to provide evidence in support  his bank statements from around the time the 
investment was made. Ive now had been able to examine them. I havent seen anything to 
show that a payment was made
In the absence of any further arguments or evidence my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision (repeated above) and which form part of this decision. So Im upholding 
the complaint.  
I set out in my provisional decision how Alexander David Securities Limited should redress 
Mr J. Ive repeated that here below. As I said in my provisional decision, its clear that 
Templeton Securities wasnt the only business involved. I accept that Firm B played a central 
role  it was behind the setting up of Mr Js account with Templeton Securities and his 
instruction to invest in Emmit. I have no power to investigate a complaint against an 
unregulated firm such as Firm B. But Ive taken into account Firm Bs part in the matter.
Templeton Securities was a regulated firm and bound by the regulators Rules and
Principles. I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that Templeton Securities failed to meet its
regulatory obligations to Mr J. Templeton Securities shouldve realised there was a clear
possibility of detriment to Mr J and acted to prevent that. In my view, Mr Js losses flow from
Templeton Securities failings and so its fair and reasonable that Templeton Securities
should redress Mr J for those losses. If Templeton Securities considers that some other
party is responsible, in whole or in part for Mr Js losses, I dont think Mr J, if his losses are
met in full by Templeton Securities, would decline to assign any rights he might have against
any other party to Templeton Securities.
Putting things right - fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr J as close as possible to
the position hed probably now be in if Templeton Securities hadnt agreed to purchase
the Emmit shares for his account. In that situation, I think Mr J, having already completed the
switch of his pensions to the SIPP, wouldve invested differently. It isnt possible to say
precisely what hed have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and
reasonable given Mr J's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Alexander David Securities Limited do?To compensate Mr J fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investments with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable. It should also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr J's pension plan, to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander
David Securities Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr J's pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his
selected retirement age. So the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Mr J wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investment Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional
Interest
Amount invested
in Emmit 
(£58,885.52) 
plus
any chargesFTSE UK
Private Investors 
Total Return 
IndexDate of 
purchase of the 
sharesDate of my final 
decision 8% simple a 
year
from the date of 
my final decision
to the date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within 28
days of
Alexander David
being notified of
Mr Js
acceptance of
my final 
decision.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr J £500 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much it has taken off. It should also give
Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open (market), it
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Limited should
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the
SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance
paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities
Limited may wish to require that Mr J provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Alexander
David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr J wouldve invested. But I think the index Ive outlined
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the degree of risk that
Mr J said he was willing to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Alexander David Securities Limited must redress Mr J as Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman