DRN-2684679
The complaint
Mrs M is complaining about a fee Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited charged her 
when she closed her stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mrs M opened a stocks and shares ISA with Scottish Friendly online. Less than a year later, 
she decided to close the account. When she looked at her mobile app, it said her balance 
was £56. So thats the amount she expected to receive on closing the account. But instead 
she received £6. 
Mrs M complained to Scottish Friendly, saying she wouldnt have closed the account if shed 
known shed only get £6 back. Scottish Friendly didnt uphold her complaint. They said the 
terms and conditions were clear that there was a £50 charge for closing the account within 
the first five years. And they said a warning note appears on the screen when closing an 
account on the app. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. She said she needed the money to pay for essentials 
and reiterated that she wouldnt have closed the account if shed known shed only get £6.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Scottish Friendly are 
allowed to charge fees to cover the cost of administering their products. She thought 
Scottish Friendly had made the £50 fee clear in the initial product information as well as on 
the webpage that Mrs M used when closing the account. So she didnt think Scottish 
Friendly had done anything wrong. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint 
 so its come to me. Mrs M reiterated that she hadnt seen any warnings on her app and 
that she wouldnt have cashed in the ISA if shed known about the fee. She also felt the 
amount of the fee was too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im aware itll be a disappointment to Mrs M, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate Mrs Ms complained about the amount of the fee she was charged. Businesses 
are allowed to set their own fees to cover their costs. And in this instance, Scottish Friendly 
gave Mrs M a £50 gift voucher when she opened the account. So it seems fair that theyd 
charge a similar amount for closing the ISA within a specified timeframe  as long as they 
made this clear from the outset. 
Scottish Friendly have sent us a copy of the product information leaflet, and the terms and 
conditions of the account. Both of these clearly state that a £50 fee will be charged if the 
account holder closes the account within the first five years of opening the ISA. This 
information is also clear on the website advertising the stocks and shares ISA. So, Im 
satisfied Scottish Friendly made their fees clear.
In addition, Scottish Friendly have sent us screenshots of what would normally show on the 
app when a customer makes a withdrawal. The first of these shows the balance at the top of 
the page. Then theres some wording about how the withdrawal will be processed. At the 
bottom of this, in bold type, is the warning If you withdraw the full amount £50.00 will be 
deducted from the value and your pot will be closed.
The second screenshot shows that a warning notice entitled Are you sure? would normally 
pop up on the app after a customer has confirmed that they want to go ahead. Again, this 
says £50 will be deducted from the value and your pot will be closed.
I appreciate Mrs M says she didnt see these warnings. And I can understand that its 
unlikely shed close the account in order to withdraw just £6. But whilst the second warning 
is a pop up, the first warning seems to form an integral part of the withdrawal process. I have 
to decide whats most likely to have happened  and in this case I think its likely this warning 
was shown before Mrs M completed the withdrawal, even if the pop up warning didnt work 
as intended. 
Mrs M said she needed the money for essentials. So Ive thought about whether she was in 
financial difficulties and whether Scottish Friendly should have considered waiving or 
refunding the fee in this case. Scottish Friendly said they havent seen any signs that Mrs M 
was in financial difficulties. Theyve told us that Mrs M has several other accounts with them 
into which she continues to pay money each month. For two of these, theyve said, Mrs M 
could freeze the payments into the accounts with no penalties  but she hasnt done so. So 
their view was that they there was no need to refund the fee to Mrs M.
Taking everything together Im satisfied Scottish Friendly have treated Mrs M fairly.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman