DRN-3069985
The complaint
Mr B says Tilney Investment Management Services Limited (trading as Tilney) misconducted 
itself in matters associated with the transfer of his final salary/defined benefit pension to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2018 and then in matters related to the 
management of his SIPP thereafter.
What happened
 Mr B has made a number of submissions, to Tilney and to this service, about his complaint. 
In all the submissions he referred to a background, in late 2017, in which he sought Tilneys 
advice and assistance with regards to the pension transfer. In December that year he says 
he contracted for two specific services from Tilney  advice and planning for the transfer and 
then portfolio investment management for the SIPP. The transfer was completed in January 
2018 and he says the relevant Tilney adviser had nothing further to do with his SIPP since 
March 2018.
In Mr Bs complaint to Tilney he referred to having to sign the relevant service agreements in 
inappropriate circumstances  that he was unduly rushed to do so (without time for 
consideration), the adviser did not explain them (especially the associated fees) to him 
properly and he was not given copies of them. He also said, in the main, as follows: 
His agreement with the adviser was to separate the services; the advisers service 
was engaged for the isolated purpose of the transfer and she agreed that she would 
have no ongoing servicing role for the SIPP (so there were to be no ongoing 
servicing fees); and together they agreed that her role will be phased out within six 
months, hence why her role had been phased out by March 2018. However, ongoing 
servicing/advice/financial planning fees have wrongly been applied to his account 
since, despite no such service having been provided. Tilney should stop those fees 
and refund those that have been wrongly collected.
They also agreed that, after the transfer advice, he would be a direct client of Tilneys 
investment management service at the fee rate of 0.468%; Tilney should honour this.
Tilney should provide him with copies of the agreements he signed and should 
confirm the fee structure applied to his SIPP.
In his complaint submissions to this service Mr B repeated the same background and claims. 
In addition, he claimed:
Compensation for lost potential growth that the wrongly collected fees could have 
had if they had not been collected.
Compensation for the time he has spent on the matters since he began his 
engagement with Tilney in 2018 to try to have them resolved  compensation at the 
rate of £50 per hour for 250 hours.
Separate compensation for the trouble, upset and distress he has been caused in the 
case. 
Agreement, by Tilney, to undertake the financial costs of moving his SIPP elsewhere 
should he choose to do so. 
Agreement, by Tilney, to reimburse costs he and his wife incurred in acquiring 
information required to pursue the matter. 
Tilneys position on the matter changed over time. Its concluding position is as follows:
Application of the ongoing fees was stopped, and it has already agreed to refund    
Mr B the total of £8,857.11 for the ongoing servicing/financial planning fees that it 
wrongly deducted  and Mr B has agreed to this. It considered the issue of lost 
potential growth on this amount. However, given that it made the offer around the 
time of the pandemic last year when markets had fallen, there was no lost growth at 
the time.
It has also agreed, with Mr B, the investment management service fee rate of 
0.88124% for his SIPP  this being a compromise between the rate of 0.562% he 
sought and its standard rate of 1.2%.
It disagrees with Mr Bs request for Tilney to undertake the costs of moving his SIPP 
away should he wish to.
It also disagrees with the claim he had made for compensation for the time he has 
spent on the matter.
With regards to his claim for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused, it 
has offered Mr B £700. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and she too changed her views over time. 
She also addressed a matter about property investments in Mr Bs SIPP  a matter in which 
Mr B says Tilney did not provide him with complete advice and/or management for the SIPP 
because he was not advised about making such investments in the SIPP. Tilney considered 
this a new issue that had not previously been brought to its attention, but it responded to it 
nevertheless. 
Tilney said there is no evidence that Mr B ever presented property investments as part of his 
objectives (or as an instruction) in the fact finding and/or advice processes and there is 
extensive evidence of email correspondence with him during those processes, in which he 
made no mention of making property investments in the SIPP. The investigator agreed there 
is no evidence that Mr B was wrongly uninformed about such investments because there is 
no evidence that Tilney was aware he was interested in them  she referred to no mention of 
property investments in a Scope of Work document from the time of advice which reflected 
the instructions Tilney had at the time. 
On the other issues, the investigator essentially found that Tilney had addressed them 
adequately in its offers (as summarised above) and that without evidence of Tilney causing a 
financial loss to Mr B she is not in a position to consider a claim for more compensation. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and he set out the following definitive list of outcomes 
he seeks to resolve his complaint: 
Tilney should pay him £9,738 (including VAT) as a refund of the ongoing 
servicing/financial planning fees that it wrongly deducted. [claim 1]Tilney should pay him £15,000 for the time he has spent  that is, 300 hours at the 
rate of £50 per hour  in having to pursue his complaints about Tilneys failures in his 
case. [claim 2]
Tilney should pay him £15,000 for the trouble, upset, distress (including the negative 
impacts on his and his wifes health) and inconvenience the case has caused. [claim 
3]
Tilney should pay him £275, which stands as the cost of a financial services 
regulations and ethics course/exam undertaken by his wife in order to understand the 
issues to pursue in the complaint. [claim 4]
The case was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. On balance, I consider that the complaint splits into two 
areas  claims which Tilney has adequately addressed in its offers [claims I consider 
essentially, and adequately, resolved]; and claims that have not been established with 
evidence.
Tilney stopped the erroneous application of servicing/financial planning fees to Mr Bs 
account. This is not in dispute. I have also seen evidence  in Mr Bs email to Tilney dated 9 
June 2020  in which he expressly agreed to Tilneys offer to refund £8,857.11 to him, 
standing as the total of the fees that were wrongly deducted. Having agreed to this specific 
sum, it is not clear why the sum in claim 1 is different and it is also not clear whether (or not) 
VAT was included in the refund sum agreed. In any case, Tilney is committed to refunding 
Mr B the actual and correct total of the sums deducted from his account for this erroneously 
applied fee. It is equally clear that it remains committed to doing this. As such, I still consider 
claim 1 essentially resolved and that Tilney will refund to Mr B the actual total sum of fees 
deducted.
I have also considered the discussion between Tilney and the investigator about 
compensation for potential lost growth on the refund amount. On balance, I am persuaded 
by Tilneys explanation. At the time the offer was made  shortly after onset of the COVID 19 
pandemic  markets, in general, were impacted. It is likely that consideration of potential lost 
growth (between the period of, roughly, late 2018 and early 2020) at this specific time, and 
using the markets at the time as a benchmark, would have yielded no compensation. 
I have also looked into whether (or not) consideration of potential lost growth should be 
brought up to date. I do not find that it should. The refund was a simple request from Mr B 
that Tilney granted in its email of 21 April 2020  and that he then agreed to receive, as of 
June 2020. It does not appear that Tilney thereafter refused to pay it or delayed in doing so. 
Instead, it appears that Mr B took a wholesome approach to the complaint and sought to 
resolve all issues together  so payment of the refund appears to have awaited resolution of 
the other issues. This is not a criticism of him or of such an approach, but it does mean that 
the refund would probably have been paid at the time (around June 2020) but for the 
approach. It would therefore be unfair to consider compensation for subsequent potential 
lost growth that has not been caused by Tilney.Mr Bs email of 9 June 2020 provides evidence of his agreement to Tilneys proposed 
investment management service fee rate of 0.88124% for his SIPP, so I consider this matter 
resolved.
Consideration of claim 2 is beyond my remit. This service does not award costs as standard 
and I have not seen reason to make an exception for the idea of compensating Mr B for his 
costs (that is, the total financial value of the man hours he has claimed for). This service 
routinely addresses complaints in which complainants have invested their personal time in 
and awards for such time are not routinely made. This is of course distinct from awards for 
trouble and upset caused to a complainant by a complaints issues and/or in the course of 
pursuing a complaint  which I address separately below.
Consideration of claim 4 is also beyond my remit for the same reason as that given for claim 
2. If, as it seems, Mr B regards the cost of the financial services regulations and ethics 
course/exam a cost incurred in order to pursue his complaint, this service does not award 
costs as standard and I have not seen cause to make an exception for claim 2.
The amount sought in claim 3 is significantly beyond the sort of amounts we generally award 
for trouble and upset. Mr B will see  if he consults the Compensation for distress or 
inconvenience section of our website  that his claim for £15,000 falls into the higher end of 
our highest level of such compensation (which starts at £5,000). This category is reserved 
for the most serious cases of distress and/or inconvenience and I am not persuaded by 
available evidence that Mr Bs case was such. 
I have considered the background to the case, including the difficulties with the pension 
transfer adviser that he described. I have also considered his engagements with Tilney from 
when he began his complaint pursuit, to date. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that 
Tilney should pay him more than the £700 it has offered in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr Bs main formal written complaint to Tilney was done in December 2019; he had 
previously raised issues directly with the pension transfer adviser, but they had not been 
resolved; by April 2020 Tilney had offered him the relevant refund of fees (and offered a 
revised management fee, which he accepted); and by June 2020 it had increased its distress 
and inconvenience compensation offer to £700. I acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience the matters would have caused him, but I have not seen evidence to show or 
suggest they were or would have been to an extent that calls for more compensation. I note 
his reference to impacts on his and his wifes health, but in the absence of persuasive 
evidence that his engagements and disputes with Tilney directly caused him particularly 
serious ill health I also have not seen cause for more compensation for this. 
I also have not seen evidence to establish Mr Bs claim that he was misled or wrongly 
uninformed about making property investments in the SIPP  and I note that he has made 
the same claim with regards to tax planning. There is no available evidence that he 
instructed Tilney to advise on property investments or that he discussed an interest in 
property investments with Tilney. I also have not seen evidence that the SIPP was 
unsuitable because it lacked such investments  and I note that Mr B has stressed to this 
service that his complaint is not about the SIPP transfer advice. The tax planning issue does 
not appear to have been in the complaint he put to Tilney and it also does not appear that 
Tilney has had a chance to address it, so I do not consider it fair to determine it in this 
decision. It is also noteworthy that the complaint appears to lack particulars/details for this 
issue.
I do not consider that I have seen ground on which Tilney should undertake the costs of an 
outward transfer of Mr Bs SIPP, so I do not uphold his claim for this. Other than the unsupported claims he has made about property investments and tax planning, there does 
not appear to be any complaint about Tilneys investment management service. There was a 
complaint about the management fee  not the service  but as stated above, that has been 
resolved. If, as it appears, Tilney has committed no wrongdoing in its investment 
management service, it has no responsibility to bear should Mr B decide to have his SIPP 
managed elsewhere.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman