DRN-1701028
The complaint
Ms B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Ms B bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint for the following reasons.
Ms B ticked a box on her credit card application form to indicate she wanted PPI. There was 
a separate box to tick if she didnt want it. So, I think Capital One made Ms B aware that she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Ms Bs comments, including what shes said about not being told 
about the PPI. But these points dont change my conclusion. Her credit card application was 
submitted through the post and it appears she selected it when completing this. So, it 
appears she was made aware of it and made the decision to take it. I appreciate she may 
not remember doing so, but thats understandable given how long ago it was.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-FangOmbudsman