DRN-2445713
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt refunded them 
the balance of the money they lost when they fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr and Mrs S were looking to invest the proceeds from the sale of some land 
theyd owned. They found an offer online promoting corporate bonds issued by a well-known 
company. This offered what appeared a good rate of return. Mr and Mrs S entered their 
details into the website to obtain more information. They were then contacted by an 
investment firms representative about the offer.
Unknown to them at the time, the investment firm they thought they were dealing with had 
been cloned by fraudsters. The person they were dealing with did not work for the real 
investment firm and the fraudsters had cloned the details and literature of the genuine 
investment firm to make the scam more convincing. The fraudsters had set up an operation 
that appeared professional and genuine but, in reality, was fake. 
Between 3 December and 30 December 2019, Mr and Mrs S sent a series of Faster 
Payments totalling £365,000 to this investment, in the belief that they were investing this 
money through a legitimate investment firm. Half of the money was to be allocated to the 
bond theyd seen online and half to a bond issued by another well-known company, 
suggested later by the investment firm.
While Mr and Mrs S say they checked the legitimate firms details on the FCAs register and 
were satisfied, they explain they did not see the warning (elsewhere on the FCAs website) 
about the possibility of this business being cloned.
The bank to which Mr and Mrs S were transferring these payments identified that receiving 
account was being used for fraudulent purposes, and alerted Halifax. The receiving bank 
was able to recover and return £148,961.63 from that account. The receiving bank also 
accepted a share of the responsibility for what had happened. It agreed to refund 50% of the 
total sum Mr and Mrs S had lost. 
Mr and Mrs S have therefore been returned a total of £331,461.63 by the receiving bank, 
leaving a residual loss of £33,538.37 which forms the subject of this complaint about Halifax.
The case was considered by Halifax under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code). This is a voluntary scheme Halifax has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code is for 
a customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
hasnt met their requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, 
a firm may consider whether it can establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Halifax declined to reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the remaining loss. It said it considered 
Mr and Mrs S hadnt met the level of care required from them by the CRM Code. In particular 
Halifax has said:
had Mr and Mrs S carried out a search on the FCA website theyd have seen a 
warning about the legitimate firm having been cloned;
Mr and Mrs could have attempted to call the investment company on a verified 
number to validate the identity of the person they were dealing with;
Halifax had shown Mr and Mrs S a scam related warning before each payment had 
been made, which had included a link to more detailed scam information; and, 
It considers there were significant red flags in the proposed interest rate applicable 
to the bonds and the content of the emails Mr and Mrs S had been sent.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service as they were unhappy with Halifaxs 
decision. One of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had established that Mr and Mrs S had failed to meet 
their requisite level of care under the CRM Code. The investigator thought Mr and Mrs S had 
been the victims of a sophisticated scam. She was persuaded they had taken reasonable 
steps to verify the legitimacy of the investment. 
She noted that the scammer had provided an FCA reference number which wouldnt have 
generated the clone warning referred to by Halifax. She didnt think it was reasonable to 
expect that if theyd carried out that check on the FCA register that they should have then 
gone on to also check the FCAs website by other methods. 
The investigator didnt agree the rates of return offered were clearly too good to be true or 
should have caused Mr and Mrs S concern. She noted the details of the emailed 
correspondence highlighted by Halifax but thought it not unreasonable that these could have 
been overlooked, and she thought overall the correspondence would likely have appeared 
professional and in line with what Mr and Mrs S would have expected. Lastly, she didnt 
consider the warning messages provided by Halifax met the requirements of an effective 
warning under the CRM Code.
The investigator said Halifax ought to have fully reimbursed Mr and Mrs S when they made 
their claim under the CRM Code. She said it should now settle the complaint by fully 
refunding the outstanding balance of the amount Mr and Mrs S had lost together with 
interest on this sum at the savings account rate from the date it declined their claim to the 
date of settlement. She noted the impact this matter had had on Mr and Mrs Ss health and 
said Halifax should pay £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience.
Halifax hasnt accepted the investigators assessment. In light of the outstanding 
disagreement, Mr and Mrs Ss complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree broadly with the conclusions reached by the investigator.Under the terms of the CRM Code, Halifax should have refunded the money Mr and 
Mrs S lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to full reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Halifax should now fairly and reasonably refund the balance of 
the money Mr and Mrs S lost.
I am persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss explanation that had they not lost these funds to 
the scam investment opportunity they would most likely have left the money in a 
savings account. So, Halifax should also pay interest on the balance not yet refunded 
at the rate that would have applied to Mr and Mrs Ss savings account. This interest 
should apply from the date when Halifax first declined to fully refund Mr and Mrs S, to 
the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Halifaxs representations about whether Mr and Mrs S ignored 
effective warnings or did not have a reasonable basis for belief when they made the 
payments. But these representations do not persuade me to reach a different view. I am not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs S failed to meet the requisite level of care under the CRM Code 
(a failure Halifax would need to establish for it to choose not to reimburse them under the 
terms of the CRM Code).
Effective warnings
Halifax chose not to reimburse Mr and Mrs S under the CRM Code. It hasnt specifically said 
this was because Mr and Mrs S ignored effective warnings. But it does say it provided a 
relevant scam warning which it considers ought to have prompted Mr and Mrs S to act 
differently than they did.
Given the provisions of the CRM Code, I have considered:
1. Whether the warning(s) Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S were effective warnings given in 
compliance with SF1(2)?
2. If so, whether Mr and Mrs S ignored those effective warnings by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to the warnings?
I will consider each question below. If the firm cannot establish that each requirement has 
been met, then the exception to reimbursement does not apply under the provisions of the 
CRM Code.
1. Whether the warning(s) Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S were effective warnings given 
in compliance with SF1(2)?
Halifax says that it provided a scam related warning message prior to every one of the fifteen 
payments made by Mr and Mrs S. It says that message would have appeared as below:Halifax refers to this warning in the reasons it gave for not refunding Mr and Mrs S. It says 
Mr and Mrs S didnt follow this guidance. Halifax hasnt said it considers this to have been an 
effective warning given in compliance with the CRM Code. But for the avoidance of doubt in 
considering the question of reimbursement under the CRM Code, I have considered whether 
this warning might have met those requirements.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have (as a minimum) 
been understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum 
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better 
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an 
effective warning.
Here, the warning message recommended checking the account details with a trusted 
source. In the context of this type of scam, a customer will typically believe (justifiably or 
otherwise) that they are dealing with a legitimate investment company. A legitimate 
investment company might reasonably be considered a trusted source by the customer. 
The warning does not make it clear that scammers may be impersonating or cloning the 
trusted source the customer believes they are dealing with. It doesnt explain that a 
consumer ought to use a specific means of contacting the trusted source or that the means 
of communication currently in use might be compromised or false. 
That information might well have been contained on the linked fraud hub pages. Halifax 
said it was at the time but has not been able to show whether Mr and Mrs S clicked through 
the link. Mr and Mrs S dont recall doing so.
Regardless, the warning doesnt require a customer to visit that page. I dont believe saying 
simply See all the latest scams does enough to prompt a consumer who believes they 
are dealing with a legitimate investment firm to click on the link. Nor do I think a customer in 
that situation would be led to believe the payment they were about to make was the result of 
a persuasive reason invented by a fraudster, unless they were already sufficiently concerned 
about that possibility.
Overall, Im not satisfied this warning message would be sufficiently impactful in the 
circumstances of a typical investment scam. I dont consider Halifax has provided an 
effective warning to Mr and Mrs S. It follows that under the CRM Code, Halifax is not entitled 
to decline to reimburse Mr and Mrs S through the effective warning exception. But for 
completeness I have gone onto consider the second part of the effective warning test:
2. whether Mr and Mrs S ignored those effective warnings by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to the warnings?
Even were I to have found the warning met the requirements of an effective warning under 
the CRM Code, I still dont consider the exception should apply to Mr and Mrs S. Had the 
warning met the effective warning requirements, Halifax would need to establish that Mr and 
Mrs S had failed to take appropriate action in response  or in other words that they failed to 
act reasonably in response to the warning. Im not persuaded Halifax has established this. 
But I think the general reasoning Ive set out above concerning the warnings given would 
apply similarly to Mr and Mrs Ss specific situation. Halifax isnt able to establish whether 
Mr and Mrs S clicked the link to see more information about scams. Theres nothing else 
here which leads me to believe Mr and Mrs S did so. I dont find them at fault in that. I dont 
find the warning would have been sufficient to cause them to doubt the veracity of the email 
correspondence theyd received or the telephone discussions theyd had  they believed 
they were at that point dealing with a legitimate investment firm, and I do not consider the 
warning would have impacted that belief. So, I dont find they failed to take appropriate 
action here.
Did Mr and Mrs S make these payments without a reasonable basis of belief as set out at 
R2(1)(c)(i)-(iii) of the CRM Code?
Based on its submissions, I understand Halifax believes it can establish the following under 
the CRM Code: 
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics 
of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the 
Customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: (i) the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; (ii) the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or (iii) the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
However, Im satisfied that Halifax has not shown that Mr and Mrs S lacked such a 
reasonable basis of belief when making these payments. I say that considering the CRM 
Code as a whole and each element of the exception Halifax seeks to rely on here. In 
particular:
Mr and Mrs S had been looking for investments online and contacted the cloned firm 
having been tricked by information theyd seen online. The investment wasnt made 
as the result of a cold call  they had initiated the contact.
They already knew the name of the genuine firm that had been cloned  which gave 
them reassurance about its legitimacy.
When they called, they remember the interactions being professional and overall, 
they say this reinforced their belief they were dealing with the real investment firm. 
Halifax has pointed out that Mr and Mrs S didnt carry out a search on the main FCA 
web search facility  rather it says they searched by firm number and name on the 
FCA register only. Had Mr and Mrs S searched directly on the FCAs home page 
Halifax explains that they would have seen a warning about clones of the firm they thought they were dealing with. I understand Halifaxs point here, but I dont agree it 
was unreasonable or careless for Mr and Mrs S to have searched the regulators 
official register of financial firms rather than searching on the FCAs main website. 
I can understand why a consumer might reasonably think the best place to find 
information about a registered (and regulated) financial firm would be the FCAs 
register of such firms. I dont think Mr and Mrs S were at fault for not then separately 
searching from the FCAs main page. Had Halifax prompted Mr and Mrs S to carry 
out such an additional search I might think differently, but I have seen no evidence to 
suggest that it did  until after this scam had already come to light.
I find the literature Mr and Mrs S were provided with was generally persuasive and 
I consider it reasonable that this would not have prompted doubt. It appears to be 
based predominantly on genuine literature produced by the firm that had been cloned 
and legitimate corporate bonds. Halifax has pointed out that some details on the 
emailed correspondence were not consistent. Ive considered this, but the 
overwhelming impression I consider they would have had was of a genuine 
investment offering by a well-known firm in whom they had trust. I think it is important 
to remember that they were viewing this information as members of the public and 
less experienced investors - not as financial professionals. Taking everything into 
account, I am satisfied it was not unreasonable that Mr and Mrs S had overlooked 
these details. Similarly, I dont think it unreasonable that the aspects of the structure 
and tone Halifax points to were overlooked by Mr and Mrs S.
Halifax has observed that the email correspondence appears to have had an advert 
in the footer of the mail message. It says this wouldnt have given a professional 
impression. It believes this should have caused concern. I have considered this point, 
but it is not clear to me when or how this advert came to be attached. I presume 
Halifax considers it was in the original email and not something added by an 
intermediate mail client for example  such a browser-based mailbox viewer. Im not 
persuaded I can safely conclude what was the case here  the evidence either way 
doesnt seem conclusive. But even had the advert been part of the original email sent 
by a purported financial firm, I am not sure I would find it unreasonable for Mr and 
Mrs S to have been unconcerned about this or to overlook it. I dont think the 
inclusion of an advert (here for webmail) in the footer of an email is so unusual or 
wholly unexpected for the average person that they would doubt the emails overall 
legitimacy. And similarly, Im not persuaded this establishes Mr and Mrs S couldnt 
have had a reasonable basis of belief in its legitimacy.
The bonds appear to have been based on genuine corporate bonds available at the 
time  and the rates reflect fixed coupon rates paid on those genuine bonds. The 
fixed term reflected the fixed maturity rates of the real bonds. 
Halifax says the rate was higher than Mr and Mrs S were obtaining from government 
backed savings bonds and this should have alerted them that something wasnt right. 
I dont agree. Firstly, Mr and Mrs S do not appear to have been experienced 
investors. I dont consider the rates of 5% and 6% in a year to have been so clearly 
and significantly out of step that an inexperienced investor should have questioned 
them. In any event, it is not a like-for-like comparison to equate the rate of return on a 
wholly government guaranteed investment product, with a correspondingly minimal 
default risk, against that which could be obtained on a corporate bond. A rational 
investor might choose to accept a higher default risk than that presented by a 
government backed bond but would do so only in the prospect of a greater rate of 
return. Thinking about all of these factors, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs S should 
reasonably have had concerns about the rates of return being offered.
Fully in the belief they were in contact with the genuine firm, I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs S did not seek to obtain an alternate number to call and verify. Once 
again, it was open to Halifax to have prompted them to take this additional step at the 
time, but I have not seen evidence to suggest it did. I dont find Mr and Mrs S at fault for not doing so  I dont think it was unreasonable for them to have believed in the 
veracity of what was a sophisticated and persuasive deception based on what they 
had seen and the steps they had taken. 
In summary, for these reasons and considering the circumstances as a whole, Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs S did not make these payments without a reasonable basis for belief that they 
were making the payments towards a legitimate investment. 
For completeness, and for similar reasons to those I have already set out above, I am not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs S were grossly negligent here, and so that exception to 
reimbursement could not reasonably be applied.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr and Mrs S have detailed the overall impact of this scam on them and their health. 
Although most of Mr and Mrs Ss distress or inconvenience undoubtably resulted from the 
criminal acts of the fraudsters, I think Halifax could have done more to protect them from the 
impact of this given its obligations under the CRM Code. Had Halifax refunded Mr and 
Mrs Ss loss when I consider it ought to have done, that impact would have been reduced. 
So, I consider it fair and reasonable that Halifax should now pay an additional £200 
compensation in respect of that additional distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr and Mrs S ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) to pay Mr and Mrs S:
the balance of the money Mr and Mrs S lost as a result of the scam, being the sum of 
£33,538.37. It should do so within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr and Mrs Ss 
acceptance of my final decision; plus,
interest at Halifaxs savings account rate on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Halifax declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement; and,
£200 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of their acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman