DRN-1855879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that CIS General Insurance Limited trading as The Co-operative 
Insurance (CIS) avoided their buildings insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and 
refused to pay their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a buildings insurance policy with CIS online. When they suffered a fire 
at their home, they tried to make a claim. 
CIS said theyd not provided the correct information about whether they ran a business from 
their home. And it considered this to be a careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy, decline the claim and return the 
premiums theyd paid. It did however, say it would meet the claim Mr and Mrs T made on 
their contents policy, which it also provided. 
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to us, with help from a relative. Our investigator 
thought it should be upheld. Our investigator thought CIS had relied on a list of assumptions 
to decide whether it would offer cover, rather than asking a clear question to establish if it 
was prepared to do this. 
CIS doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It says 
the list of assumptions was clear and if Mr and Mrs T had been in any doubt about this they 
should have contacted it to check they could get the cover they wanted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIS says it thinks Mr and Mrs T failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they acknowledged they didnt run a business from their home when 
in fact they did. They did that as part of the online process when they bought the policy in 
2017.
Ive looked at the information CIS sent about the sales process. It asks Mr and Mrs T to 
check a list of assumptions its made about their circumstances. The list  which they had to 
click a link to get to  contains a number of items, including things like whether they had any 
criminal convictions or lived in an area likely to flood. One of the assumptions is that Mr and 
Mrs T dont run a business (except for very limited types of business) from their property.
Mr and Mrs T would have checked a box to say they didnt  or their property didnt  breach 
any of the assumptions. 
CIS has shown me some of its internal guidelines that say if Mr and Mrs T ran a business 
that was anything other than childcare or an office based business then it wouldnt have 
provided cover at all. But after the claim it discovered Mr and Mrs T ran a business repairing 
furniture. And it says an insurance database suggests this topic was raised by Mr and Mrs 
Ts previous insurer  so Mr and Mrs T would have been aware of its importance. So it 
believes its actions are fair.
Ive seen the records from the previous insurer and although I agree it did note that Mr and 
Mrs T ran a business, it decided to do nothing about this unless they renewed the policy. 
And it seems to have failed in its attempt to contact Mr and Mrs T about renewal, so its not 
immediately apparent that Mr and Mrs T knew the previous insurers concerns (if thats what 
they were). But even if the previous insurer had contacted them, that doesnt mean CIS can 
rely on the fact that they might have known something about the topic. 
Mr and Mrs T say they werent asked a clear question about this, and that as they only run a 
part time business based in their garden shed (which never operates from inside their home) 
they didnt realise the importance of the assumption. 
I understand that assumptions can be very useful to summarise a customers circumstances. 
But if not meeting an assumption has a direct effect on whether the insurer will provide cover 
 or if it significantly changes the terms and conditions  then the insurer should ask a clear 
question on the topic. I dont think CIS did that. I can see it asked Mr and Mrs T to check a 
list of assumptions before applying for the policy  but I dont think thats enough when the 
consequences of confirming one assumption incorrectly amongst several were so severe.
I think that means Mr and Mrs T have been unfairly treated by CIS. Thats because I dont 
think CIS has shown me that Mr and Mrs T were careless in answering a question, when 
they werent asked a direct question about running a business such as theirs.
This means Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Mr and Mrs T also say they dont understand why CIS would meet their claim for their 
contents but not the building, when it had sold them both policies. CIS says it would have 
provided contents cover even knowing about the business because it had done so for nearly 
thirty years. I can understand why Mr and Mrs T are confused by this, but I dont think it 
prevents me from reaching a fair decision about this complaint, so I havent looked at this 
further.  
Putting things right
CIS should re-instate Mr and Mrs Ts policy, and consider their claim subject to any other 
relevant terms and conditions. If it subsequently pays the claim it can deduct the value of any refunded premiums from the settlement. It must also remove any entries its made on 
industry databases about the avoidance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. CIS must 
now:
Consider the claim subject to any other relevant terms and conditions.
Remove any entries its made on this issue from the central industry database.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman