DRN-2679955
The complaint
Mrs F complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) didnt amend the property 
construction details on her home insurance policy with it. 
Mrs F is represented in this complaint by a family member but, for ease, Ill refer to all 
comments and actions as those of Mrs F. 
What happened
Mrs F took out a buildings and contents home insurance policy through Sainsburys on 
1 June 2019. The policy was underwritten by a third-party insurer and was taken out online 
using a comparison website. 
When Mrs F received the policy documentation, it listed the outside walls of her property as 
being constructed of brick and timber. Mrs Fs property is, however, constructed of a 
mixture of timber framed Essex boarding, wattle and daub and block bricks. Mrs F contacted 
Sainsburys on 24 June 2019 and informed it this information was incorrect. 
Sainsburys amended Mrs Fs policy to show that the property was constructed of wattle and 
daub and said this meant Mrs F needed to pay an additional premium of £83.71. This 
included a £15 mid-term adjustment fee, as well as the higher premium she would have 
been charged if the correct building construction details had been entered onto the price 
comparison website. Sainsburys said it would consider waiving the adjustment fee if Mrs F 
provided it with proof that she entered the correct information into the comparison website 
about the construction of her property.  
Mrs F contacted Sainsburys again to let it know that her property was not constructed 
entirely of wattle and daub and provided an outline of the propertys construction. Mrs F 
voiced her concerns about whether the property was insured, given that incorrect information 
about the propertys construction was held by Sainsburys. 
Sainsburys issued a final response letter on 4 July 2019. It said records from the quotation 
stage of Mrs Fs application show the construction type as brick and timber. It said Mrs F 
was asked to agree to the following statement at application stage: The roof on the property 
is tiled, the walls are made of brick and the property is in a good state of repair. Sainsburys 
said if Mrs F disagreed with this statement then she would have been able to add additional 
property information and declare if the walls were made of something other than brick. 
Sainsburys said this hadnt been done. It said Mrs F told it she had proof from the website 
that the quote definitely had the correct information and if she could supply this it would be 
happy to look into it for her. 
At the same time that Sainsburys responded to the complaint, it told Mrs F the wall 
construction type as listed on the policy was still incorrect. It said that if Mrs F didnt update 
it, Sainsburys would issue a seven-day cancellation notice as it couldnt keep a policy 
running with inaccurate information. 
Mrs F got back in touch with Sainsburys in July 2019 to let it know that the information she 
had provided in June 2019 about the construction of her property hadnt yet been updated. 
Sainsburys said it would speak to the underwriters to check they were willing to provide 
cover for a building of the type owned by Mrs F.
Mrs F complained to this service in October 2019 as she said this matter was unresolved. 
She said she was concerned because the documentation issued by Sainsburys was not 
contract certain and this left her in a situation where a claim could possibly have been 
denied. 
Mrs Fs policy ended on 31 May 2020.
  
When this service contacted Sainsburys, it said Mrs F asked for the amendment, but it said 
everything pointed to a consumer error at the application stage, which led to Mrs F 
benefitting from a cheaper policy. It said it didnt intend to add the additional premium to the 
cost of the policy now. Sainsburys said the underwriter was aware of the predominantly 
wattle and daub construction of her home and it has no doubt that if a claim had been made 
it would have been assessed and Mrs F would not have been out of pocket. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Fs complaint. He said Mrs F hadnt lost out financially because 
of Sainsburys failure to update the policy or its failure to get back to her with an update from 
the underwriter. But he said Sainsburys hadnt got to grips with the concerns being raised by 
Mrs F and it should have spoken to the underwriter about amending the policy to reflect the 
whole construction type and then provided a more accurate quote. Our investigator 
suggested it pay Mrs F £100 compensation for the poor level of service. 
Sainsburys accepted the outcome reached by our investigator. Mrs F was unhappy and said 
the policy should be declared void as no written evidence exists to confirm the property was 
properly insured and the premiums should be refunded. Mrs F also asked for a letter of 
apology, £1,000 compensation and for Sainsburys to report itself to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
And because Mrs F was unhappy with the outcome reached by our investigator, this has 
come to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2021. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint and ask Sainsburys to pay £100 compensation to Mrs F for the distress she 
experienced when Sainsburys provided a poor level of service in response to her queries 
about her policy. I gave both parties until 8 March 2021 to respond. 
Mrs F responded and didnt agree with the decision. Ive summarised her comments below: 
The complaint involves Sainsburys inability to communicate and its failure to ensure 
it had properly arranged a legal contract of insurance which she could rely upon.
Just because the policy has expired, this does not mean the insurers liability to 
indemnify Mrs F for loss, damage or liability has ended. 
Sainsburys did nothing to ensure that Mrs F was properly insured and nor did it issue 
a notice of cancellation, as it said it would need to do if the type of construction of the 
property was not properly recorded in the policy. 
The numerous ways in which Sainsburys has breached FCA rules has been 
mentioned by Mrs F on numerous occasions. And this doesnt appear to have any 
impact on the level of compensation the ombudsman deems should be awarded. 
Mrs F said this service should be able to look into her complaint point about 
Sainsburys non-compliance with its own complaints procedures. Four Sainsburys employees failed to do what was agreed, which was to discuss the 
matter with the underwriter, report back to Mrs F and allow her the opportunity to 
decide whether to continue with the insurance.
The compensation award should be reconsidered given the extreme distress and 
inconvenience caused by Sainsburys to Mrs F. 
Sainsburys also responded and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
I want to assure Mrs F that I have considered all of the information that she and Sainsburys 
have provided, even if I havent specifically made reference to every point, comment or 
document. My decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
I first of all want to clarify what points I can and cant address when looking into Mrs Fs 
complaint against Sainsburys. Sainsburys are responsible for arranging and administering 
Mrs Fs policy, but it is not the underwriter. And this means I can only address complaint 
points relating to it arranging or administering the policy  so whether anything went wrong 
at the application stage and how it dealt with Mrs Fs request to amend the policy when she 
realised the information in the paperwork about the property type was incorrect. But I wont 
be looking into issues that were decided by the underwriter, such as whether the underwriter 
would have offered the policy if the correct property type details were known to it from the 
outset, whether it was fair to apply a premium increase or whether the policy would have 
indemnified Mrs F if she had needed to submit a claim. If Mrs F wants more clarity from the 
underwriter about her policy, then she can submit a complaint to it in the usual way and refer 
that complaint to this service if she is unhappy with the outcome. 
Mrs F also thought Sainsburys hadnt complied with its own complaint procedures and 
asked this service to look into whether this was the case. But this service cant look at every 
complaint thats brought to us. Broadly speaking, we can only look into complaints about 
financial products or services. So while we can look at how Sainsburys dealt with the 
administration of Mrs Fs insurance policy, complaints about whether it complied with its own 
complaints procedures are outside our remit.  
When Mrs F responded to the provisional decision, she said Sainsburys had breached FCA 
rules in numerous ways and this doesnt appear to have had an impact on the level of 
compensation thats being awarded to her. It might help to clarify that this service doesnt 
punish businesses for breaches of FCA regulations. It is for the FCA to decide if its 
regulations have been breached and to impose whatever sanctions it sees fit. The approach 
this service takes is that if we decide an error is made by a business, then compensation 
levels are decided based on the impact on the individual consumer involved. 
Looking at the complaint points that can be addressed, Ive first of all considered whether 
Sainsburys acted fairly when it asked Mrs F to pay a £15 fee because she had asked it to 
make changes to her policy. And I take the view that it would only be fair to apply a fee of 
this type if Sainsburys was certain it wasnt responsible for the incorrect information about 
the property type being listed on Mrs Fs policy. Given the information Ive seen so far, Im satisfied Sainsburys didnt make an error when it 
initially listed Mrs Fs property type as brick and timber. I say this because Sainsburys has 
provided a screenshot that shows what information was entered by Mrs F when she applied 
for her policy online. I know that Mrs F said she entered wattle and daub and it may well be 
the case that she intended to do this, but Im satisfied its likely the property type entered by 
Mrs F was brick and timber. 
Mrs F told Sainsburys and this service that she has evidence showing she entered the 
property type correctly when she applied for the policy. But Mrs F hasnt provided this 
information and so I have relied on the evidence available. In any event, I believe 
Sainsburys doesnt intend to ask Mrs F to pay this fee at this stage. 
My understanding is that the crux of Mrs Fs complaint is that Sainsburys didnt amend her 
policy documentation in the way it should have done, once she informed it that the building 
type was incorrectly listed.  
From what I can see, Mrs F very quickly realised the property type was incorrect, once she 
received the policy documents. So she contacted Sainsburys to let it know. Sainsburys then 
contacted the underwriter and said the property was constructed of wattle and daub. So the 
underwriter increased the premium. But the property wasnt constructed solely of wattle and 
daub and so Mrs F contacted Sainsburys again. Her concern at that stage was twofold. 
Firstly, Mrs F didnt think it was fair to apply an additional premium. She felt sure she had 
entered the property details online as wattle and daub and so thought the premium already 
paid had taken account of the property being constructed of wattle and daub. And the 
second concern was that Sainsburys didnt take any action to amend the property type from 
wattle and daub to the correct type. 
Ive already dealt with the question of what property type was most likely entered online by 
Mrs F. And for the reasons already outlined above, I dont intend to make a finding about 
whether the underwriter fairly applied a premium increase, as the complaint Im dealing with 
is against Sainsburys and not against the underwriter. But Im satisfied Sainsburys passed 
on correct information to Mrs F when it told her the original premium was calculated on the 
basis of the property type entered online by Mrs F, which was brick and timber. And when it 
told Mrs F the underwriter had decided to increase the policy premium. 
But I cant see that Sainsburys did anything to amend the policy details when it was told by 
Mrs F that the property wasnt just constructed of wattle and daub, that it was of mixed 
construction. And I think Sainsburys should have contacted the underwriter to provide it with 
the correct property type and should have communicated the response from the underwriter 
to Mrs F. Mrs F was understandably reluctant to pay the additional premium at this stage 
when she was aware it was calculated using the wrong property type. From what I can see, 
Sainsburys didnt take action after this. 
What this meant is that Mrs F was caused some distress by not being told what was 
happening with her policy. And while I make no finding about whether Mrs F had a valid 
policy at the time, I can see why she would be distressed wondering if this was the case. I 
think Sainsburys could have done more to communicate with Mrs F about her policy. 
Mrs Fs policy has now ended and it wasnt necessary for her to make a claim. So Mrs F 
hasnt been placed at any sort of financial disadvantage by Sainsburys not communicating 
with her more effectively. 
After our investigator issued his view, Sainsburys agreed that the service it offered Mrs F fell 
below the standard it should have offered her. So it agreed to pay the £100 compensation 
suggested. Having considered all the information in front of me, I dont intend to ask Sainsburys to pay 
any more than the £100 already suggested. I can see why Mrs F would have been 
distressed by Sainsburys failure to communicate with her about her policy, but Ive also 
taken into consideration that Mrs F didnt suffer any financial loss during the time she had 
the policy. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay 
£100 compensation to Mrs F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman