DRN-3850244
The complaint
Mr W has complained about a number of issues concerning his account with Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. 
These include that Mr W says that transactions show up as duplicates on the Virgin Money 
app. Mr W says he tried calling Virgin Money, but was unable to speak to anyone, even 
though the app says that the service is available 24/7. Mr W has also said that when a 
transaction was declined, he was unable to discuss this with anyone at Virgin Money. 
Mr W is also unhappy because he was unable to update his address and Virgin Money took 
too long to respond to his complaint.
What happened
Virgin Money issued its final response letter and explained that transactions can show up as 
duplicates between 10pm and 2am. It says this occurs because its system processes 
payments in batches during this time. Virgin Money said that feedback had been provided to 
the relevant department so that this could be improved.
Virgin Money also acknowledged the difficulties Mr W had when calling, and again confirmed 
that feedback had been provided to the relevant department to help improve its telephone 
system. Virgin Money also confirmed that Mr Ws address had since been updated and 
apologised for the times that Mr W had to wait a long time to be able to speak to someone. It 
also acknowledged that it had not issued its final response letter within the relevant time limit 
either. 
However, Virgin Money was unable to locate the declined transaction that Mr W had 
mentioned and suggested that if a payment was declined, this couldve been due to a 
problem with the retailers card reading machine that took the payment. Overall, in light of Mr 
Ws experiences, Virgin Money agreed to pay Mr W £250 compensation.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that the amount offered by 
Virgin Money was reasonable. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the 
matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided, overall, I think that what Virgin Money 
did to put matters right was reasonable. So I wont be asking it to do anything further in 
relation to this matter.
Firstly, I think it may help to explain that our service is not the regulator. So Im unable to 
instruct Virgin Money to change or improve its systems. As such, whilst I recognise that Mr 
W wanted Virgin Money to improve the service it provides, that is something Im unable to 
ask Virgin Money to do. All I can do is consider what has gone wrong and consider whether 
what Virgin Money agreed to do to put matters right is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W says that transactions show up as duplicates on the Virgin Money app. In the final 
response letter, Virgin Money explained that this can happen between 10pm and 2am due to 
how payments are processed. Of course, whilst this is not ideal, I think that explaining this to 
Mr W was reasonable as it ensured he was aware of this quirk  which in turn would avoid 
Mr W from unnecessarily querying duplicate payments appearing on his statement 
overnight.
In terms of the declined transaction that Mr W has referred to, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that it was declined because of anything that Virgin Money did. So I cant hold Virgin 
Money responsible for that. And I can see in the final response letter that Virgin Money had 
updated Mr Ws address  albeit belatedly. 
Having said that, its clear that Mr W didnt receive the level of service that he shouldve, 
particularly when he was trying to speak to someone at Virgin Money. And Virgin Money has 
acknowledged the areas where it didnt get things right; apologised for its failings; and 
provided feedback to various departments so that its processes can be improved. 
I also note that Virgin Money failed to issue its final response letter within the required time 
frame, which Ive no doubt added to Mr Ws frustration in wanting this matter resolved.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about the impact these matters had on him, especially 
bearing in mind what he has said about the health conditions that he suffers from. And 
having done so, I think that an award of £250 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
that was caused to him. As this has already been paid, I dont think Virgin Money needs to 
do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Virgin Money) 
needs to do anything more, than it has already done, to put matters right in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman