DRN-2498021
The complaint
Mr W says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2005 at the same time as Mr W applied for
a credit card in one of the banks branches. The policy gave Mr W accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr W had to agree to take it out.
Ive looked at the paperwork from the sale. On the application form Mr W indicated that he 
wanted PPI and signed separately to confirm this. There was nothing on the form that I think 
could reasonably have led Mr W to think the PPI was mandatory. It also directed Mr W on 
where to sign if he was taking out optional insurance. So Im satisfied NatWest made it 
clear to Mr W the PPI was optional and he chose to take it out. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check if it was
suitable for him. It was up to Mr W to decide whether the policy was right for him,
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was sick or lost
his job.
But it did have to give Mr W enough clear information so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to buy the PPI. I agree its possible NatWest didnt give Mr W all the 
information about the PPI that he needed before he made his decision. But Mr W chose to 
take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. It seems he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. And the policy was a reasonable price for the 
benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable.
Mr W initially told us he was entitled to at least six months full pay if he was sick. He then 
sent in documentation showing his sick pay was at his managers discretion and said he 
knew of colleagues that had been off for over 12 months. But he sent in an employment 
contract dated June 2008, so some years after the sale. And in any case, I can only consider 
his contractual benefits. I havent seen anything that persuades me Mr W had a level of 
contractual sick pay such that he had no need for PPI. Plus the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months. The PPI also offered redundancy 
cover for up to 12 months. It would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment from his employer giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr W had life and critical illness insurances but these are not suitable alternatives. They 
cover different events and wouldnt help with monthly credit card repayments in the same 
way as PPI.
So based on his circumstances at the time of the sale and the terms of the policy, I think it
unlikely Mr W wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.
But NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr W,
that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more than
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid
because of that.
NatWest should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr W the difference
between what Mr W owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay Mr W 8%* simple
interest (15% before April 1993) if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt
pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman