DRN-3795921
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly refused his 
request to confirm the name of his original employer each time it sends him 
correspondence regarding his two pension policies. Hed also like to receive a single 
P60 for his two policies. 
Mr J says hes complaining on behalf of himself and any other pensioner who has 
their pension/financial service taken over. 
What happened
Mr J has two pension policies with Aviva. The policies originated from two different 
businesses which have both become part of Aviva. They have individual plan 
numbers and are administered from different Aviva offices  in Bristol and Crawley. 
Mr J said that his two policies were from the same employment and therefore should 
be merged. 
Mr Js policies had been administered by Friends Life, which is now part of Aviva. In 
2017, when the transfer of the policies to Aviva was being considered, Friends Life 
policyholders were invited to put their objections to the Companies and/or the Court 
if they felt they would be adversely impacted by the proposed insurance business 
transfer. 
Mr J objected to the transfer. He felt that his bank statements just showed the 
provider that paid the pension. But didnt show the employer the pension had 
originated from. He said this made it difficult to keep track of which pension payment 
was from which employers pension. 
Aviva wrote to Mr J on 14 August 2017 to tell him that his objection had been noted. 
And that it would be brought to the attention of the Courts, the Independent Expert 
and the Regulators. It said that the judge would consider the objections in 
September 2017. 
Aviva said that the transfer would have no effect on the way either of his policies 
worked, or on the payments he received. It also said the terms and conditions 
wouldnt change. And that the same team of people would be looking after the 
policies before and after the transfer. It said the only change after the transfer would 
be to the branding on its communications. Aviva also confirmed that the two policies 
couldnt be merged. 
Aviva wrote to Mr J again on 18 August 2017. It confirmed that it would pass his 
objections on to the Courts, the Independent Expert and the Regulators.
Mr J called Aviva on 7 May 2021 to discuss the P60s he received. He said he 
wanted a single document that had the details from both the P60s. He also said the 
P60s didnt reference which policy they related to. He raised a complaint. 
Aviva issued its first final response on 14 June 2021. It didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said that although it understood Mr Js difficulties in establishing which pension each 
P60 relates to, it wouldnt be possible for it to implement the change to the 
information provided on the P60 that Mr J wanted. But it said that it would send Mr J 
a letter each April which should help him to establish which policy each P60 related 
to.
Mr J spoke to Aviva on 18 June 2021. He felt its response hadnt addressed all his 
points. He referred to his concerns about both the P60s and a previous Court 
hearing relating to the transfer of the Friends Life business to Aviva in 2017. He said 
he felt he'd been given reassurances that the P60s would be referenced to show 
which policy they related to. Aviva said it would investigate the complaint further.
Aviva called Mr J on 2 July 2021. It reconfirmed that the P60s couldnt be combined. 
But said it could arrange for a letter to be sent from both the Crawley and Bristol 
offices which would provide the histories of the policies. 
Mr J felt that his objections to the Friends Life and Aviva merger had been accepted 
and that there was a Court order in place which he felt meant Aviva was in breach of. 
So he complained again.
Aviva issued a further final response to Mr J on 4 October 2021. It repeated that it 
couldnt merge Mr Js pensions. But said that it would pay him £50 for its delay in 
responding to his concerns. Aviva also said that it wasnt aware of any Court order 
requiring it to confirm each policys origins each time correspondence was sent. 
Aviva provided further information about the two policies Mr J held. And said that if 
he kept the letter in an accessible place it should help with his concerns that his next 
of kin/executors would find it difficult to reconcile his assets on his death. 
I understand that £50 compensation was paid to Mr J on 11 October 2021.
Aviva called Mr J on 2 November 2021 to discuss his 2017 objections to the transfer 
of business, as well as the correspondence hed received in 2017. And on 1 
December 2021 Aviva told M J that it was waiting for a copy of the letters hed 
received in 2017. Aviva said that Mr J believed that itd sent him correspondence 
relating to a Court order. But it didnt think this was the case. It said it would write 
again to Mr J when it had more information.
Having received the 2017 correspondence, Aviva called Mr J on 9 December 2021. 
Aviva said it couldnt find any evidence to suggest that the Courts had agreed to 
ensure that the P60s issued to Mr J would quote the name of his original employer. 
Mr J told Aviva that hed been told verbally that his complaint had been upheld. 
Mr J called Aviva on 7 February 2022. He referred to a letter dated 18 August 2017 
which related to the objections hed previously raised. Aviva said it had requested a 
copy of any correspondence sent to the Courts. It said it didnt know when it would 
receive the information, or if it would be the information Mr J needed. Aviva confirmed that Mr J could refer his complaint to this service. 
Mr J brought his complaint to this service on 16 February 2022. He said it was 
important that the identity of the employer responsible for any pension shouldnt be 
lost. He said it was difficult to keep track of pensions. And that as people now 
generally had several, the problem would become worse. Mr J said hed tried many 
times to sort this problem out.  
Mr J said that before the transfer in 2017 hed been notified that he could object to 
the Court. He said hed been told by phone that his objection had been upheld. But 
that this hadnt been put in writing to him. Mr J felt that Aviva had failed to carry out 
the Courts ruling and that it had no intention of changing its procedures to meet his 
needs.
Aviva called Mr J on 21 June 2022 to tell him that a supplementary report relating to 
the transfer of the Friends Life business to Aviva would be sent to him. It said the 
report referred to the Courts and any objections that had been raised. 
Mr J called Aviva again on 22 June 2022. He said hed now read the supplementary 
report and wanted to discuss the contents. Mr J asked Aviva if it would change its 
position on his complaint. Aviva told him it wouldnt. 
Our investigator didnt consider that Aviva should be required to make any changes 
to Mr Js policies. He felt it was right for it to keep the two plans separate. He said 
that Aviva had provided a written response providing the exact details of the two 
pension plans for Mr J to add to his records in October 2021. And Mr J had said that 
hed placed this information alongside his will so that his family were aware. 
But our investigator felt that that complaint should be upheld. This was because he 
felt Avivas payment of £50 for the inconvenience itd caused when itd delayed 
providing the information Mr J needed wasnt enough. He felt that Aviva was aware 
that the issue was causing Mr J distress when he contacted it in July 2021. And as it 
hadnt provided this until October 2021, he felt it couldve been provided sooner. 
Given the delay, he felt that a further payment of £150 for Mr Js inconvenience was 
appropriate. 
Mr J disagreed with our investigator. He still felt that Aviva should be required to 
ensure that the original employer was referenced on each pension. Mr J also said 
that he still felt that his original complaint had been ignored and that he should have 
all his previous scheme details included in all correspondence.
Aviva said it would pay an additional trouble and upset payment of £150.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint for the same reason as our 
investigator. This means I agree that the compensation Aviva paid for the inconvenience it caused was too low. But I dont agree that Aviva should be required 
to make any changes to Mr Js plans or the way it communicates information about 
the plans to him. I know my decision will disappoint Mr J. Ill explain my reasons for 
it. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr J firmly believes that when he objected to the 
transfer in 2017 his objections had been upheld. Therefore he felt that Aviva was 
obliged to ensure that the original employer was referenced in all correspondence 
relating to his two pension policies. 
Mr J said that hed been told verbally that his complaint  that is, his objections about 
the transfer - had been upheld. But acknowledged that hed never received any 
written confirmation about this. 
Aviva told Mr J in its 14 August 2017 letter that his objections would be brought to 
the attention of the Courts, the Independent Expert and the Regulators. It also said 
that the only change after the transfer would be to the branding on its 
communications. 
Ive seen the Supplementary Report of the Independent Expert. It said that 154 
objections were received from policyholders. The Independent Expert stated, within 
this report:
I have reviewed the objections received and considered carefully any potential 
issues relating to the Scheme.
But he didnt recommend of the changes Mr J had asked for in his report.
Ive seen no evidence that Aviva didnt forward Mr Js objections to all the parties it 
said it would. So Ive no reason to consider that it didnt do as it said it would.
And apart from Mr Js recollection that he was verbally told that his complaint had 
been upheld, Ive no evidence that there was ever a Court order requiring Aviva to 
take the actions Mr J wanted it to take. Without such evidence, I cant fairly conclude 
that there was a Court order.
I also note that the transfer of the business in 2017 didnt change anything apart from 
the branding on the communications. Therefore it wouldve been surprising if the 
Courts had decided that Aviva should be required to take an action that hadnt 
already been in place before the transfer from Friends Life.
I acknowledge that Mr Js aim here was not just to have clear information available 
for himself, but for other current and future policyholders. But Ive seen no evidence 
that the Courts required Aviva to take the actions Mr J wanted them to take.
Ive also considered if Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in how it has handled Mr 
Js request. 
Mr J was worried that his family wouldn't be able to piece his pension information 
together in the event of his death. So he wanted his pension policies to reference the 
original employer. He also wanted the two policies to be merged. Aviva has explained to Mr J in letters and phone calls why it cant provide the 
information hed like on all correspondence. It said that it wouldnt be practical to 
include this level of detail on every customers P60 or correspondence, or to do this 
on an individual basis. Aviva has also told Mr J that his two policies cant be merged 
into one. It explained the full details of the two policies in its 4 October 2021 final 
response letter to Mr J. 
Having considered the steps Aviva has taken, Im satisfied that it has provided the 
detailed information Mr J needs. And I dont consider think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Aviva to provide this level of detail on every piece of 
correspondence, for all its policyholders. In any event, this service cant normally tell 
a business how it should be run.
I also dont consider that Aviva should be required to merge Mr Js two pension 
policies. I say this because Mr Js two policies are paid on different dates and from 
different offices. They are independent of each other. So I consider that a separate 
P60 is required for each pension. And I dont require Aviva to merge them.
From what Ive seen, Aviva has now provided Mr J with the information he needed. 
And he has placed this alongside his will. I consider that this is a reasonable solution 
to the problem Mr J wanted to solve, as his next of kin should now be able to 
establish the origins of his pension policies in the event of his death.
I next considered the distress and inconvenience Aviva caused Mr J. I can see that 
hes had to spend a great deal of time and effort getting the information he wanted 
from Aviva. I consider that Aviva caused unacceptable delays in providing that 
information.
Mr J had to chase Aviva on a number of occasions to resolve the situation. And this 
took more time than I wouldve ordinarily expected. Although Mr J had made Aviva 
aware that the situation was causing him distress when he contacted it in July 2021, 
from what Ive seen, Aviva didnt send the helpful information it said it could send 
until October 2021. 
I consider that this information couldve been provided sooner. So I agree with our 
investigator that the £50 compensation payment Aviva has already paid Mr J in 
respect of the inconvenience this caused him was too low. And I also agree that total 
compensation of £200  that is an additional £150 more than Aviva has already paid 
Mr J  is reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Aviva has taken reasonable steps to provide the 
information Mr J personally needed. But I dont consider that Aviva should be 
required to provide such information on all correspondence. Nor do I consider that 
Aviva should be required to merge Mr Js two policies into one. But as I consider 
Aviva took longer to provide that information that it should have, I uphold the 
complaint.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr J £150 further compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited must pay him £150 further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman