DRN-3215841
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the information Extracover Insurance Company Limited trading 
as Zego gave him about the excess payable when he made a claim under his commercial 
motor insurance policy. 
Mr C is also unhappy that Extracover cancelled his claim without his consent. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was hit from behind by another vehicle and he made a claim to his insurer, Zego. 
Zego incorrectly told Mr C that he would ned to pay an excess of £500 when the correct 
excess was £400. Mr C didnt believe he should pay any excess as he said he wasnt at fault 
for the incident. Zego told Mr C that it might be able to reimburse the excess but that it was 
payable in the event of a claim. 
Unhappy with the information provided by Zego, Mr C cancelled his claim. Zego said the 
approved repairer had already ordered parts and so as Mr C cancelled the claim, he was 
responsible for paying for the parts which were non- refundable. 
Mr C raised a complaint with Zego. Zego said Mr C didnt agree to pay the excess and so he 
cancelled the claim. As the parts had already been ordered, it was entitled to seek recover of 
the costs of the parts from Mr C. So it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator asked Zego 
to provide a recording of the first notification call but it provided a recording of a later call. In 
this call, Zego incorrectly advised the excess was £500  but correctly said if the claim 
settled as a non fault claim it would be refunded to Mr C.  thought Mr C had cancelled the 
claim. And he thought that  even if Zego had confirmed the correct excess of £400 rather 
than £500 as it said, Mr C would have still cancelled the claim. 
But he thought  as Zego hadnt shown it had properly explained the claims process to Mr C 
in the first notification call  it wasnt fair of it to ask him to pay the costs of the repair parts 
ordered. He thought Zego should have given Mr C clear information about the excess and 
the claims process before it arranged for parts to be ordered by an approved repairer. For 
this reason, the Investigator thought Zego should stop looking to recover the repair part 
costs from Mr C. 
Zego didnt agree. It said while it accepts incorrect information was given to Mr C about the 
excess amount, it was correctly set out under his policy documents for him to check before 
he made a claim. It says Mr C wanted to claim and the parts were ordered to carry out the 
repairs as soon as possible. As Mr C cancelled the claim, it doesnt think it fair that he 
doesnt cover the repair part costs as Zego followed the correct process. 
So Zego would like an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In Zegos final response to Mr Cs complaint, it doesnt dispute that it didnt tell Mr C he 
would need to pay the excess when he first called to claim. Instead, it said that Mr C should 
have checked his policy documents to see what the excess would have been. 
I think its reasonable for an insurer to properly explain the claims process when a customer 
first notifies it of a claim. From the information available, Mr C wasnt advised of the correct 
excess under his policy. Zego told him in follow up calls and emails that the excess was 
£500  not £400. Mr C didnt agree for his car to be repaired and decided to cancel the claim 
he made. He repeatedly told Zego that he couldnt find under his policy where the excess 
due was £500.
I think if Zego had shown that it properly explained the claims process to Mr C when he first 
notified it of his claim, on balance its more likely than not that he would not have gone ahead 
with it  even if it had confirmed the excess was £400. He was unhappy with having to pay 
any excess as he said he wasnt at fault for the incident. Zego has only been able to show 
that it explained the claims process including the excess payable and the possibility of 
refunding the excess of the claim settled as non fault to Mr C on 11 November 2020. This 
was almost two months after he made a claim on 10 September 2020. 
Im satisfied from the call on 11 November 2020 that Mr C cancelled the claim  and so I 
dont agree Zego cancelled the claim without his consent. 
However I dont think its a fair outcome for Zego to ask Mr C to pay for the ordered repair 
parts for his car as Zego cant show it properly explained the claims process when Mr C first 
notified it  before the parts were ordered. I therefore uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Extracover Insurance Company 
Limited trading as Zego to stop requesting payment from Mr C for ordered repair parts under 
the cancelled claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman