DRN-4147575
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim made under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M was represented in making this complaint by a family member. For the sake of 
brevity, Ill refer to comments provided by the representative as coming from Mrs M.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. 
Mrs M has home insurance underwritten by Aviva. This covers her home and its contents 
and includes cover for contents away from the home.
Mrs M made a claim in June 2022 after a family member who lives at her address lost a bag 
containing a camera and other equipment.
Aviva accepted the claim but discovered that Mrs M had failed to declare a previous claim 
when she bought and renewed the policy.
They thought this misrepresentation on Mrs Ms part was unintentional. So, they calculated 
what the premium would have been had the previous claim been disclosed and settled the 
claim proportionately.
In short, Aviva said Mrs M had in fact paid 53% of the premium she would have paid had the 
previous claim been disclosed. And so, they settled the claim at 53% of its total value.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Aviva. 
She said shed been having issues with her own health at the time she bought the policy. 
Her son had also had an accident at work and had to undergo surgery. And her daughter 
had been seriously ill. 
Due to the stress she was suffering at the time, shed forgotten the previous claim. And she 
felt in all the circumstances Aviva should pay the June 2022 claim in full.
Aviva empathised with Mrs Ms situation but maintained their decision to settle the claim 
proportionately had been correct. So, Mrs M brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong in the way 
theyd settled Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the facts of this case. Aviva accepted the 2022 claim. Mrs M 
acknowledges that she didnt declare the earlier claim when she bought the policy. Everyone 
accepts that was a genuine error and not intentional.
There is legislation which covers this kind of situation and specifies what actions insurers are 
entitled to take if a customer makes a misrepresentation when they buy a policy. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says that 
where a consumer intentionally or recklessly misrepresents the facts when buying a policy, 
the insurer may void the policy (treat it as if it never existed), decline any claims and keep 
the premiums the consumer has paid.
Where the misrepresentation is careless - as in Mrs Ms case, according to Aviva  the 
insurer has a number of possible remedies based on what they would have done if theyd 
known all the facts at the time the consumer applied for the policy. 
If they wouldnt have offered cover at all, had they known the facts, the insurer is entitled to 
void the policy and decline any claims, although they would in that case return the premiums 
the consumer had paid.
If they would have offered cover but on different terms, the insurer is entitled to apply those 
terms. And if they would have offered cover but would have charged a higher premium, the 
insurer is entitled to settle any claims proportionately
CIDRA specifically says how any proportionate settlement is to be calculated. In essence, if 
the customer paid X% of the premium they should have paid (had all the facts been known) 
then the insurer need only pay X% of the value of the claim.
Mrs M has provided a detailed explanation of her circumstances at the time, to demonstrate 
that the misrepresentation she made was unintentional. But thats not in dispute  Aviva are 
happy to agree it was a careless misrepresentation. If they hadnt accepted that, they 
wouldnt be settling the claim at all. 
Im satisfied the misrepresentation was in fact careless. Mrs M asked a relative to buy the 
policy for her, but that doesnt absolve her of the obligations set out by CIDRA. The question 
Aviva asked about previous claims during the application process was very clear and 
unambiguous. And there was indisputably an undeclared previous claim within the relevant 
time frame.
Mrs M also implies that her circumstances were such that Aviva should make an exception 
and pay the claim in full. I know this will disappoint Mrs M but I dont agree with that.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs M about the problems she was experiencing at the 
time. But as CIDRA makes clear, it is the consumers duty to take care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they apply for a policy. There are no exceptions to that based on 
individual circumstances.
In summary, Im satisfied that Aviva have complied with the relevant legislation (CIDRA) in 
the way theyve settled Mrs Ms claim. And I cant reasonably conclude they acted in any 
way unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in applying a proportionate settlement in 
response to the June 2022 claim.
Aviva have provided evidence to show that they would have charged a higher premium had they known the full facts. And theyve calculated the 53% proportion accurately and in line 
with their underwriting criteria.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman