DRN-3382373
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the service they have received from AJ Bell Management 
Limited. In particular, they are unhappy with not being told about primary offers and with 
having previous correspondence deleted. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs A hold shares in a company through AJ Bell. They were unhappy when 
they found out through a notice of an extraordinary general meeting, about a 
previous primary offer that they hadnt been able to take advantage of. However, I 
dont believe that AJ Bell did anything wrong or were required to let them know about 
this. 
I appreciate that they feel they should have been informed as shareholders. 
However, the conditions of the account dont make specific provision for that. Further 
I dont think its fair or feasible for AJ Bell to notify every shareholder of every primary 
offering. I also havent been provided with anything to show that AJ Bell had been 
made aware of the offer. They were told of the EGM and they communicated that 
with shareholders like Mr and Mrs A, within a reasonable timescale. Unfortunately, 
this was too late for them to take advantage of the offer.
Mr and Mrs A are also unhappy with the time it took AJ Bell to respond to secure 
messages that they sent in the past. Providing examples of occasions when they 
enquired about other investment opportunities. AJ Bell acknowledges that they took 
too long to reply and I agree. However, having reviewed these messages, Mr and 
Mrs A should have been aware that they couldnt deal through secure message and 
could have called for the information they needed and to complete a deal. 
Mr and Mr A have also complained of disappearing and potentially deleted secure 
messages. I am not sure if Mr and Mrs A are still complaining about this but I am 
satisfied by the response from AJ Bell that they havent deleted any secure 
messages so they cant be read. They have provided instructions to ensure no 
messages are filtered from view and I think this is fair. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs As frustration, I do not uphold this 
complaint. AJ Bell werent required to let them know about the primary offer and I dont think 
it was feasible or fair to have expected them to. Especially as I am not sure if they were 
aware of it until receiving a message about the EGM, which they passed on within a 
reasonable timeframe. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AJ Bell Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman