DRN-3170096
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was given poor advice by County Capital Wealth Management 
Limited trading as The Pension Review Service (CC) to transfer the benefits from his 
defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017.
Mr L contacted another firm (WW) for advice in August 2017. They completed a fact find and 
risk profile with Mr L. WW advised Mr L to transfer to a personal pension. However, on 18 
December 2017, they informed him they couldnt complete the transfer for him due to 
restrictions to their regulatory permissions. They explained that if he still wanted to transfer 
he had to make alternative arrangements. They referred Mr L to CC for advice.
CC completed their own fact find in January 2018. This showed Mr L was 52, married with 
no dependants, in good health and was earning around £35,000 per year. His wife was a 
year younger and had a salary of £20,000. They had savings of around £9,000 and a 
mortgage free home worth around £180,000. Mr L was a member of his employers new 
money purchase pension with his contributions being 6% of his salary and employers 
contributions of 10%. His wife had her own DB pension which would provide her with an 
estimated annual income of £12,000 in retirement. Mr Ls risk profile was recorded as 
balanced. A pension transfer questionnaire recorded that Mr L was considering a transfer 
because he wanted the option to retire early and to pass on any benefits to his family in a 
flexible way. It was recorded he needed £1,500 from age 60 until the start of his state 
pension. He said he had no need for tax-free cash. 
On 9 January 2018, CC advised Mr L to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension 
and invest his funds through a discretionary fund management firm (DFM). The same day all 
other necessary paperwork for the transfer was completed. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that:
Mr L wanted to access his pension flexibly at age 60
he needed an income of £1,500 per month in retirement
he could pass on the full value of the capital to his family in case of his death
the transfer value of his final salary scheme could be secured as a financial asset. 
Mr L said he never met with CC. This is backed up by CCs testimony that they were only 
providing a bureau service for WW and it was WWs adviser who took Mr L through the 
cash flow analysis and reports. CC says WW played a key role in advising Mr L.
Mr L, through his representative, complained in 2019 about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. After CC rejected his complaint, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. He also 
made a separate complaint against WW. WW has since gone into liquidation and so this 
service cannot consider the complaint against them anymore.
An investigator thought the advice CC gave Mr L was unsuitable and asked them to 
compensate Mr L for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension.
CC disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption when advising on a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. CC should have only considered a transfer if they could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in Mr Ls best interest (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The documents from the time of advice show that Mr L was looking to retire at age 60. 
The average investment return required in the new pension to match the PPF benefits at age 
60 (critical yield) was quoted in the suitability report as 6.95%. 
The closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. It was 3.4% per year 
both for 7 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at 
the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate.
Given the above, I think there was a real risk Mr L wouldnt have been able to match, let 
alone exceed his DB benefits in the personal pension if he was invested in line with a 
medium risk strategy as suggested. Ive also considered CCs cash flow models which they say showed Mr L could have been 
significantly better off in the personal pension plan. They compared his existing situation with 
scenarios where his transfer value grew a) only in line with inflation, b) assuming returns of 
the recommended investment portfolio based on historic returns and c) a stress test where 
the transfer value fell by 14% in the first couple of years and then performed in line with 
historic returns of the asset allocation of the recommended portfolio.
I firstly note that in the model for Mr Ls existing financial position, CC failed to include the 
annual increases on Mr Ls BSPS benefits in payment. Also, as CC will know, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and 
the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather 
than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. CCs 
models also show that if returns were only in line with inflation financial assets would actually 
be lower in the long-term than if he kept his DB pension.
Overall, Im satisfied that by transferring his pension it was unlikely Mr Ls benefits would 
match, let alone exceed his existing benefits in the DB scheme. Instead there was a risk he 
would be worse off in retirement. His DB benefits represented the majority of his retirement 
benefits so I think he didnt have the capacity to take on this risk. Ive also considered Mr Ls 
recorded income objective of £1,500 in retirement.  I cant see that this sum was properly 
discussed or tested with Mr L. 
CC said in their suitability report that Mr L could have drawn an annual income of £12,633 
per year from the PPF at age 60 and around £3,000 from his money purchase pension. That 
would have given him around £15,600, rather than the £18,000 he apparently required. 
I think discussions should have taken place about how much income Mr L really needed 
from age 60. His and his wifes outgoings, which covered non-essential spending and putting 
£300 towards savings, were recorded as £1,952 per month. Mrs Ls intended retirement date 
was 67, she was a year younger than Mr L and she had a net salary of £1,400 per month. 
So based on the joint income and outgoings recorded in the fact find, I think Mr L could have 
comfortably retired on the benefits the PPF and his money purchase pension could provide. 
Mr L says he doesnt know where the £1,500 figure came from and I havent seen evidence 
how this figure was established. However, even if I assume that he and his wife thought this 
was what they wanted at the time, it was CCs job to challenge this and properly establish 
their needs. I dont think the additional £1,400 per year until state retirement age warranted a 
transfer which put Mr L at risk of likely being worse off in retirement over the long-term. 
Based on the above alone, I dont consider a transfer was in Mr Ls best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall
lower benefits.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr L approached CC as he was concerned about his BSPS pension. Lots of his colleagues
at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end
up in the PPF.  So its quite possible that Mr L came to CC leaning towards the decision to 
transfer. However, it was CCs obligation to give Mr L an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interest. Mr L, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about BSPS 
moving to the PPF. However, as the figures above show, even if this happened, Mr L was 
still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was properly explained to him.From what Ive seen CC didnt provide Mr L with an objective picture about the PPF and 
what this might mean for him specifically. Mr L was interested in retiring early. However, this 
was possible in the PPF and early retirement reductions were in fact lower in the PPF than in 
BSPS. 
Overall, I think CC didnt do much to alleviate Mr Ls concerns and fears.
flexibility and death benefits
Its recorded that Mr L wanted a flexible income, however again I cant see evidence that he 
had a particular need for this. Mr L also had another pension with generous employer 
contributions and over seven years or possibly longer to build up further pension provisions. 
He could have accessed this pension flexibly when he chose to retire. So in fact keeping the 
DB benefits would have given him a risk-free guaranteed income and he could still have a 
small degree of flexibility through his other pension provision. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Im sure that the idea of leaving a large 
sum to his wife and son in the event of his death sounded attractive.
However, I think CC underplayed the DB pensions death benefits. They described the 
spouses pension from Mr Ls DB scheme as small, however this would have been 50% of 
his pension which would have been paid to Mrs L for the rest of her life which was a valuable 
guarantee. Mrs L also had her own final salary pension, so both together would have left her 
with a guaranteed income for life of at least £18,000 per year increasing every year, so 
keeping up with inflation. Mr L also had generous death in service cover if he died before 
retirement and his wife and son would have received the values of his other pension too if he 
died. I cant see that any of this was explained to Mr L in a balanced way.
In any event, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here
was to advise Mr L about what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So there generally shouldnt be a 
disproportionate emphasis on death benefits compared to their own retirement needs. Mr L 
was in good health and so more focus should have been on his long-term retirement 
provisions. Overall, I dont think different death benefits justified the likely decrease of 
retirement benefits for Mr L.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mr L was not suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income. By transferring he was risking obtaining lower
retirement benefits and there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer
and outweigh this in my view. I dont think his options with regards to his DB scheme were 
properly explored.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr L likely was keen to transfer out as
he was worried about his pension. However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively 
weigh up the options for Mr L. He should have advised him what was best for his 
circumstances and explain what he was giving up in the DB scheme and that moving to the 
PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For the reasons given above I think this advice 
should have been to remain in the BSPS. 
CC have also pointed to the Time to Choose literature Mr L would have received at the time 
and which would have given him information about the benefits he could have in BSPS 2 and PPF and what members should be aware of when transferring out. Im familiar with the 
information provided from trustees to members at the time. However, this doesnt replace 
personal and independent financial advice about whether Mr L should transfer or not. This 
advice could only be given by a regulated financial adviser with specific permissions. And Mr 
L was entitled to trust CC personal recommendation to him.
On balance I think Mr L would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice if they 
had recommended him not to transfer out and explained why.
WWs involvement
I understand CC say they only performed a bureau service for WW. CC said WW had 
already advised Mr L to transfer and they were still heavily involved in the advice process 
throughout.
I cant consider the complaint against WW as they have gone into liquidation. However, 
based on the information I have seen it seems indeed that WW had previously advised Mr L 
and continued to be involved. However, notwithstanding WWs involvement, CC had a duty 
to give Mr L suitable advice and without their advice a transfer couldnt have proceeded. CC 
is responsible for their own actions here. If CC had given suitable advice, Mr L would have 
had a positive recommendation from WW as well as a recommendation not to transfer from 
CC. Its possible that WW might have continued to persuade Mr L to proceed with the 
transfer. However, given that WW had not been able to proceed with the advice due to 
issues with the regulator, I think on balance Mr L would have listened to CCs advice if their 
reasons why a transfer wasnt in his interest had been explained properly. So in my view 
CCs unsuitable advice ultimately led to Mr L transferring his DB benefits and so its fair and 
reasonable to hold them responsible for any losses this transfer caused Mr L. If they 
consider WW should also be held liable, CC is free to pursue them directly after having 
compensated Mr L in full.
CC did point out that they only got involved once the Time to Choose period had expired. 
So unless Mr L had chosen to move to BSPS2 before the deadline of 22 December 2017, 
his only option other than transferring to a personal pension was to stay in BSPS and move 
to the PPF. 
Mr L sought advice from WW in October 2017 and was told he should transfer out of his DB 
scheme, so I think its plausible to think he likely didnt request to move to BSPS2 before 
December 2017. The investigator came to the same conclusion and found that CC could not 
be held responsible for any potential losses Mr L suffered for not joining BSPS2. At the point 
they became involved this option wasnt available to Mr L any longer. Mr Ls representatives 
havent commented on this or provided evidence which shows this assumption isnt true. So 
I have no reason to come to a different decision here.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr L, as closely as possible, into the position hed be in now but for CCs
unsuitable advice. I consider he would have stayed in BSPS and subsequently moved to the
PPF (which was his only other option at the point CC advised him in 2018).
CC should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date
of the actual calculation.CC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could
have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ls likely
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
In addition CC should pay Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date
CC receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of any
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, that it
takes CC to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme expects to be able to 
have information on this by late summer 2022. Mr L would possibly have been entitled to an increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF.  I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating him.
I dont think its reasonable for CC to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety until 
the buy-out is completed. Although it is expected to happen in late summer 2022, Im 
conscious that this could be delayed further due to its complexity. To give some certainty to 
the parties, I think its fair CC calculates and pays Mr L compensation now as set out above 
comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the buy-out is completed and more 
detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits will increase, CC should do a 
second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB transfer redress applicable at 
the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits Mr L would have been entitled 
to after the buy-out. 
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are 
known. CC should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr L becomes aware 
further information is available, he should let CC know. If the second calculation results in a 
higher redress amount than the first calculation, CC must pay Mr L the difference. If the 
second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the first calculation, 
no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to Mr L 
within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has completed. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the announcement date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it 
takes CC to pay Mr L.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
County Capital Wealth Management Ltd pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on County Capital Wealth 
Management Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that
Mr L can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any finaldecision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman