DRN-1586423
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK plc caused him financial loss by failing to respond to 
his request to open a savings account, and provide access to his accounts without needing 
to attend his branch.
What happened
Mr S has a number of accounts with Barclays. He emailed Barclays in November 2019 
asking them to reorganise his accounts  and particularly to open a savings account and 
allow access to his accounts without the need to attend his branch. 
Barclays wrote to Mr S five days later, advising what he needed to do if he wanted to open a 
savings account. It didnt mention anything about non-branch access to his accounts. 
Mr S complained to Barclays that theyd ignored his requests, and he was losing out on the 
ability to make transfers online. In particular, he said Barclays failure to action his requests 
meant he was losing out on exchange-rate gains he could have made by making currency 
transfers between his UK Sterling and Australian Dollar accounts. Barclays responded, 
referring to the above letter as evidence they had responded to his request. Unhappy with 
this response, Mr S brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator noted Barclays letter explains how to open a savings account  by visiting a 
branch or calling their customer service department. And that Barclays cant open an 
account based solely on an emailed instruction. Our investigator also noted the letter was 
correctly addressed, so presumably was received  and so there was a prompt response 
from Barclays dealing with the first part of Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator concluded that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong on this point.
However, our investigator said Barclays hadnt responded to Mr Ss request to be able to 
manage his accounts without going into the branch. And Barclays hadnt provided Mr S with 
a method to operate his accounts without attending his branch. He noted Mr Ss online 
access was still active but that there was no evidence to show Barclays had provided Mr S 
with his login details for this facility, concluding this prevented Mr S from being able to 
manage his account as he wanted - including being unable to move funds between currency 
accounts. But, our investigator said he couldnt be sure when Mr S would have moved his 
funds. So, he couldnt ask Barclays to pay for potential losses that may have occurred 
through not being able to take advantage of GBP-AUD currency fluctuations. 
But he did conclude Mr S had experienced inconvenience as a result of this issue and said 
Barclays should pay Mr S £150 compensation for this. He also said Barclays should provide 
Mr S with his online login details. 
Mr S rejected our investigators view. He says he wanted the ability to move the funds 
between the AUD and GBP account, and doesnt think the investigator addressed this properly. Mr S also reiterated the losses he believes he suffered, citing dates he would have 
transferred funds, using the exchange rates he believes would have applied to each transfer. 
Barclays also rejected our investigators request they pay £150 compensation, attaching an 
online banking screenshot showing a passcode was issued to Mr M in October 2014, and a 
card reader in March 2015. So, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S asked for two things in his email to the Barclays customer service agent. He said:
For the future, can you please reorganise my accounts AND
In addition to I would like a savings account paying interest at the best rate 
available and the ability to move funds between [them] without having to go into the 
Branch
I want to begin by looking at the savings account request. Barclays say theyve responded to 
this request, and I agree. Ive seen the letter Barclays sent to Mr S five days after the above 
email was sent which amongst other things says as follows: 
Should you wish to open a savings account this can be actioned by calling into a 
branch or by calling our Customer Service Team on
Whilst this letter was essentially sent in relation to another complaint Mr S had raised with 
Barclays, it contained clear instruction on what Mr S needed to do to open an account  go 
to the branch or phone customer services. It was sent only five days after Mr Ss email, so 
was a timely response. It was up to Mr S whether he acted on the advice contained within 
the letter, and I cant fairly say Barclays did anything wrong by not taking any further action 
beyond providing the clear advice in their timely response letter. 
Turning to Mr Ss account access request, its clear Barclays letter makes no reference to 
this. And from what Ive seen, this request in Mr Ss email has never been responded to. 
Barclays have told us Mr Ss accounts have had online and telephone banking access since 
shortly after his accounts were set up in 2014. Ive seen an internal screenshot of Mr Ss 
accounts showing these access functions existed on his accounts - and remain active. So 
whilst it seems Mr S may have been unaware he had these functions when he emailed 
Barclays, in principle he did have the ability to move funds without needing to visit his 
branch. Nevertheless, Barclays didnt respond to this element of Mr Ss request, and so the 
opportunity to remind him of this facility  or send online access instructions  was missed.
Mr S advises he needed to move funds dynamically according to the changes in the 
exchange rate. Barclays, he says by not responding and/or actioning his requests, have 
caused him to lose out on currency gains he could have made had he been able to move 
funds between his accounts at will. And in various emails to our investigator, Mr S referred to 
exchange rates being at a level where hed have transferred funds between currency 
accounts on those particular days. So, it appears clear Mr S was conscious of live exchange 
rate fluctuations on a daily basis. But whilst this supports Mr Ss statement that the ability to move funds was important to him, 
I also want to consider what other steps hed taken to engage with Barclays to progress his 
request. Ive seen Mr S sent a follow up email to Barclays, six days later, in which he said:
If you dont implement the instructions I gave you on 7/11 I will start another complaint 
with the FOS
But, other than this, Im not aware of any other attempt made by Mr S to try and progress 
this request, either by phone to customer services or his branch, or by visiting the branch. 
I think its also worth mentioning Barclays have limits regarding what a personal account 
customer can transfer between accounts, electronically or using phone banking  a 
maximum of £250,000 according to their website. These amounts are less than the balance 
that existed in Mr Ss Barclays accounts. And so, had he wished to make the transfers hes 
suggesting, it appears he may have needed to attend the branch in person in any event. 
So, taken together, whilst I think its clear Barclays didnt do enough  or it appears anything 
 to respond to Mr Ss request to have access to his accounts without needing to visit his 
branch, I cant fairly say this inaction is enough to hold Barclays responsible for the loss of 
any potential exchange-rate gains he mayve made after hed sent his email. I think Mr S 
could have done more to chase a response from Barclays. And, for the reasons given 
above, I dont think I can fairly conclude Barclays caused any loss to Mr S by not responding 
to his emailed request.
But I agree with our investigator that, by not responding to this request at all, Barclays have 
caused inconvenience to Mr S. Our investigator awarded Mr S £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience experienced. I agree that this is a fair reflection of the inconvenience suffered 
by Mr S in this regard, and award that sum accordingly. I also agree with our investigator 
that Barclays must send updated log-in details (and new password as appropriate) to Mr S, 
to ensure he now has online access to all his Barclays accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint, in part, and require Barclays 
Bank UK plc to do the following:
Pay £150 compensation to Mr S for distress and inconvenience caused
Send new login and password details to Mr S in respect of all his Barclays accounts
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Mark Evans
Ombudsman