DRN-2495803
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) paid a large transaction on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs B had a Lloyds credit card. In January 2020 she booked a holiday. Instead of taking 
payment for 10% of the cost of the holiday, the holiday company put through the full cost of 
the trip  over £7,000. This caused the account to go over its limit. This was put right on the 
same day. Mrs B lost the use of her credit card for day while it was sorted out.
Mrs B complained. She said that the transaction shouldnt have been allowed by Lloyds. 
This had taken her £582 over her limit of £6750. She lost the use of the card and had to 
spend a long time sorting this out. She was concerned that her credit history was affected.
Lloyds replied in February 2020. They said that the problem was caused by the holiday 
company putting though the higher amount to Mrs Bs credit card. This was an error by 
them. Some retailers have a higher floor limit than others. This means that when taking 
card payments, they dont have to get authorisation from the bank. This was the case here  
Lloyds didnt authorise the payment as they didnt have to. And it wasnt unusual for Mrs B to 
make similar payments like this, so they wouldnt have considered it suspicious. As the 
refund for the difference had been made the same day, there wouldnt be any impact on her 
credit file. They agreed that the service that Mrs B had received from Lloyds when she called 
them hadnt been very good and paid her compensation of £75, plus £20 because she lost 
the use of her card, and £10.35 for call charges she had to pay. 
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service in January 2020. Our investigator looked at what 
had happened. In December 2020 he said that while Mrs Bs credit limit was £6750, this 
could be exceeded. Banks dont always decline transactions in these cases  sometimes it 
can be more harmful to customers if they do. There had been other, similar payments by Mrs 
B so he could see why it wasnt seen as unusual. He agreed that the calls made by Mrs B 
could have been better handled - it was fair that Lloyds had paid the compensation that they 
had and refunded the call charges.
Mrs B wasnt happy and asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mrs B feels concerned here. She had a credit limit of £6750 and feels 
that she should have been protected by Lloyds if she was going over her limit. She always 
paid off her balance every month. She is also worried that her credit record would be 
affected.
To explain what happened here  the holiday company had a high floor limit. This meant 
that beneath a certain amount, they didnt have to get authorisation from the bank. 
Businesses are given a high floor limit (by their bank) where they take large payments  like 
this company for example. So, in this case, Lloyds wouldnt have been asked to agree the 
transaction  it was put through by the holiday company. This meant that there was a 
payment of £7056 made instead of £705. I can see that the adjustment was made on the 
same day for the difference of £6351.
Lloyds might have blocked it if it was unusual for Mrs B to make payments like this one. But I 
can see from Mrs Bs account that she made other large outgoings to holiday companies 
and airlines - there was one in January 2020, two in 2019 and others in preceding years - so 
this payment wasnt out of line with how she used her card.
So, this is a consequence of the holiday company putting through the wrong amount. Lloyds 
have said that because the refund of the difference was made on the same day, Mrs Bs 
credit rating wont be affected.
Lloyds have admitted the calls from Mrs B werent well handled. Mrs B also lost the use of 
her card while everything was sorted out. This meant that she had to pay more for a new 
passport through the post office. For this, Lloyds have apologised and paid compensation of 
£75 for the inconvenience, £20 for the extra cost of the passport, and refunded call charges 
of £10.35. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, while I can appreciate Mrs Bs frustrations and worries here, Lloyds havent done 
anything wrong and therefore I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman