DRN-2749426
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T and I was very sorry to hear about the problems hes been 
having, but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Mr T. The van here was 
around four years old and had completed about 50,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
There have clearly been some issues with this van. Ive seen evidence, for instance, that the 
brake sensors and turbo were replaced in the first five months and I think its likely these 
faults were present, or developing, at the point of supply when MotoNovo were responsible 
for the vans quality.
Mr T accepted these repairs and accepted repairs to a leaking sump and to replace an air 
cooler in 2019. Its unclear whether these latter issues were present when the van was 
supplied to him. But the relevant legislation says that if a fault occurs after the consumer has 
had the goods for more than six months it is to be assumed the fault was not present when 
the goods were supplied unless the consumer can show differently.
Mr T says the repairs to the van have failed and that there are faults with the vehicle. But the 
independent inspection completed in September 2019 doesnt demonstrate that. The 
inspector who is an expert in these matters noted there was evidence of a previous oil leak 
but couldnt identify a current one. It was his opinion that the van had not been maintained to 
the manufacturers specification as the oil level was too low and the manufacturers 
recommendation that oil levels were regularly checked had not been followed.
I think its for Mr T to demonstrate there is a fault with the van that has been present from the 
point of supply and I dont think hes been able to do that. I say that because the 
independent inspector hasnt been able to identify a fault and because the van passed a 
MOT a few thousand miles before the final independent inspection took place, and the MOT 
didnt identify any issues.
The last reported service on this van was in 2017 and Mr T hasnt been able to provide 
evidence of any servicing completed on the vehicle in his care. I think its usual to service a 
van much more frequently than that and to have a full service completed annually. I think this 
supports the independent inspectors findings that the van has most likely not been 
maintained to the manufacturers specifications. In those circumstances I dont think it would 
be fair to ask MotoNovo to take any further action in relation to the quality of the van they 
supplied.
Mr T has also raised concerns that the first payment taken under the agreement was higher 
than the others. The finance agreement explains that the first payment includes a £199 
admin fee (Admin Fee A) whilst the subsequent payments dont. So, Im not persuaded 
MotoNovo were wrong to take the amounts shown on the finance agreement Mr T had 
agreed to.
Mr T is also concerned that when he received his annual statement of accounts he noticed 
there were two loans rather than the one he thought hed signed up for. The second loan is 
for the deposit that Mr T needed to secure the vehicle but theres only one payment being 
made each month and I dont think theres evidence MotoNovo have done anything wrong 
here. 
Overall, Im not asking MotoNovo to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman